Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Testing & Tracing You are here Home Life at Temple Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy Testing & Tracing Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Keeping campus and our surrounding community safe. Beginning Monday, May 9, 2022, PCR tests will no longer be used as part of the university’s COVID-19 testing program. All tests administered to students, faculty and staff at Paley Hall and the Student Faculty Center will be done with rapid COVID-19 antigen tests. All unvaccinated students, faculty and staff with approved COVID-19 vaccine exemptions are still required to test. Individual testing reminders will continue to be sent out weekly, and testing appointments can be made on the health portal. Read the announcement. Following the announcement from the city of Philadelphia that masks will no longer be required indoors, Temple University is reinstating its previous mask guidance. Effective immediately, masking will again be optional in most campus spaces. Read the annoucement. COVID-19 Compliance Acting in defiance of the COVID-19 mitigation and containment efforts put in place by the university and the city of Philadelphia carries serious consequences. Sanctions for students in violation of COVID-19-related policies, such as refusing to participate in mandatory testing or cooperate with contact tracers, and other blatant disregard for the health and well-being of Temple University and the surrounding community, may result in disciplinary action such as revocation of university building access, removal from campus housing, suspension or expulsion. The university collects and shares information regarding active COVID-19 cases within the university community. View the COVID-19 dashboard. Contents Philadelphia’s Vaccination RequirementsUniversity Testing Locations and SchedulingTesting and Exposure FAQ for Students Testing and Exposure FAQ for EmployeesContact TracingTravel Guidelines and FAQ Philadelphia’s Vaccination Requirements To be compliant with the city of Philadelphia’s mandate, Temple students, faculty and staff must have either received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine (rather than being fully vaccinated) or an approved medical or religious exemption by Oct. 15, 2021. Learn more about the vaccines and explore COVID-19 vaccine availability in Philadelphia. University Testing Locations and Scheduling Temple University will continue to operate coronavirus testing sites on Main Campus and the Health Sciences Center to help keep students, faculty and staff healthy. Testing is done by appointment only and walk-ups will not be accepted. Schedule an appointment at the Morgan Hall testing center by calling 215-204-7500 and selecting prompt 2 or by using the patient health portal and selecting the Morgan Hall clinic. Employees on campus who are experiencing symptoms should call Employee Health Services at 215-204-2679. If employees are working remotely and develop symptoms or are identified as a close contact, they should contact their primary care provider immediately and should not come to campus. University Testing Sites Locations and Hours Main Campus Paley Hall, Lower Level Room G2 Hours: Monday–Thursday: 8 a.m.–4 p.m. Friday: 7 a.m.–3 p.m. Health Sciences Center Student Faculty Center, Room 108 Hours: Monday–Friday: 8 a.m.–4 p.m. Administering Tests Though the testing sites will be staffed, tests are self-administered. Those who are being tested will be given a test kit, which includes a test tube and nasal swab, and will follow step-by-step instructions to complete the test themselves. Learn more about what to expect when making an appointment for a self-swab test. Watch the Video Test Results Test results will be available between 12 and 36 hours after your test. Negative test results will be texted or emailed. Students can opt in to receive text messages from Student Health Services by visiting the Forms section of the health portal. Those who receive a positive test result will get a call from a Student Health Services staff member, who will provide you with information about what you should do next. You can also download a PDF of your test results from the Lab Results tab in the health portal. Be sure to update your contact information in TUportal to ensure we have your current phone number and address on file. You can do this by logging in to TUportal, clicking Manage My Account in the upper right corner, and selecting Manage Addresses and Phones. Testing and Exposure FAQ for Students Answers to students’ frequently asked questions about testing and exposure to COVID-19 are provided below. What if I test positive for COVID-19 at a facility outside of Temple Student Health? If you test positive for COVID-19, you must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. After the 10 days you should continue to wear your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines. Refer to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidance and talk to your healthcare provider in order to understand what your test result means and what kind of test you obtained. Please see the CDC website for a list of possible symptoms. If you have any aggravating conditions or questions, contact your healthcare provider. Seek emergency medical care immediately if you are experiencing more severe symptoms or you are so advised by your healthcare provider. Severe symptoms include trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, and bluish lips or face. If you’re experiencing these symptoms, call 911 for transport to your local urgent care facility or emergency room and notify dispatchers that you have COVID-19. Isolate from others even if you have no symptoms or your symptoms are very mild. While the test is a useful diagnostic tool, the most important step you can take is to stop the spread of the disease. Stay home except to get emergency medical care and do not interact with other individuals. If you need assistance, contact Student Health Services at 215-204-7500. Follow the steps below to report your positive test. Log in to the health portal to report your positive test. Once you’re logged in, find the “uploads” button and upload a copy of your COVID-19 test results. Go to the COVID-19 tab and complete the Symptoms Tracker. After your symptoms are documented and your positive test is reported, someone from Student Health Services will contact you to determine next steps. What if I have symptoms of COVID-19? If you experience mild symptoms of COVID-19, you should begin isolation immediately, but, typically, you do not need to seek emergency medical care. If you have any aggravating conditions or questions, contact your healthcare provider. Please see the CDC website for a list of possible symptoms. Seek emergency medical care immediately if you are experiencing more severe symptoms or you are so advised by your healthcare provider. Severe symptoms include trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, or bluish lips or face. If you’re experiencing these symptoms, call 911 for transport to your local urgent care facility or emergency room and notify dispatchers that you have COVID-19. Isolate from others even if you have not yet received a COVID-19 test. While the test is a useful diagnostic tool, the most important step you can take is to stop the spread of the disease. What if I think I was in close contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19? A close contact is defined by the CDC as being closer than six feet, for equal to or greater than 15 minutes to a person who has tested positive for, or is presumed to have, COVID-19. If you are identified as a close contact or you identify yourself as a close contact, it does not mean that you will develop symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, but you must closely monitor your symptoms and possibly need to quarantine. While being identified or self-identifying as a close contact is not an emergency situation, per se, it is very important that you take steps immediately to limit all movement and interaction with others. If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, please refer to the guidance above and begin isolation. Per CDC guidance, close contacts of a known COVID-19 positive case should obtain a test five days following the last day of exposure to the positive case. If you received a booster shot, wear a mask for 10 days and get tested on day five, if possible. If you are unvaccinated or you received the primary series of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine more than six months ago or the J&J vaccine over two months ago, you should quarantine for five days. Wear a mask for an additional five days. Get tested on day five, if possible. You will need to report to Student Health Services that you believe you are in close contact with someone who has tested positive for, or is presumed to have, COVID-19. Log in to the health portal to report the possibility that you believe you are a close contact of someone who has tested positive for, or is presumed to have, COVID-19. Once you’ve logged in, go to COVID-19 tab and complete the Symptoms Tracker. After you’ve completed the Symptoms Tracker, someone from Student Health Services will contact you to give you additional instructions. Can I get a COVID-19 test if I don’t have symptoms and do not know if I have been a close contact of anyone who has tested positive for COVID-19? Students can schedule their appointments at the testing sites listed below. Testing at these sites is reserved for asymptomatic students. Do not schedule an appointment at these sites if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Instead, schedule an appointment by calling 215-204-7500 and selecting prompt 2 or by using the health portal. Main Campus Mitten Hall, Great Court Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Paley Hall, Lower Level Room G2 Hours: Monday, Tuesday and Friday, 6:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Health Sciences Center Student Faculty Center, Room 108 Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Testing and Exposure FAQ for Employees Answers to employees’ frequently asked questions about testing and exposure to COVID-19, including information for faculty members if a student tests positive, are provided below. If you still have questions after reviewing the material below, please contact the COVID-19 liaison in your school, college or unit. What if I test positive for COVID-19 at a facility outside of Temple Employee Health? If you test positive for COVID-19, you must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. After the 10 days you should continue to wear your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines. You must also notify your supervisor that you are experiencing symptoms. If you need assistance, contact Employee Health Services at 215-204-2679. Seek emergency medical care immediately if you are experiencing more severe symptoms or you are so advised by your healthcare provider. Severe symptoms include trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, and bluish lips or face. If you’re experiencing these symptoms, call 911 for transport to your local urgent care facility or emergency room and notify dispatchers that you have COVID-19. What if I have symptoms of COVID-19? If you experience mild symptoms of COVID-19, you should begin isolation immediately, but, typically, you do not need to seek emergency medical care. If you have any aggravating conditions or questions, contact your healthcare provider. Please see the CDC website for a list of possible symptoms. Seek emergency medical care immediately if you are experiencing more severe symptoms or you are so advised by your healthcare provider. Severe symptoms include trouble breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion, inability to wake or stay awake, or bluish lips or face. If you’re experiencing these symptoms, call 911 for transport to your local urgent care facility or emergency room and notify dispatchers that you have COVID-19. Isolate from others even if you have not yet received a COVID-19 test. While the test is a useful diagnostic tool, the most important step you can take is to stop the spread of the disease. You must also notify your supervisor that you are experiencing symptoms. If you need assistance, contact Employee Health Services at 215-204-2679. What if I think I was in close contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19? A close contact is defined by the CDC as being closer than six feet, for equal to or greater than 15 minutes to a person who has tested positive for, or is presumed to have, COVID-19. If you are identified as a close contact or you identify yourself as a close contact, it does not mean that you will develop symptoms of or test positive for COVID-19, but you most closely monitor your symptoms and possibly need to quarantine. While being identified or self-identifying as a close contact is not necessarily an emergency situation, it is very important that you take steps immediately to limit all movement and interaction with others. If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, refer to the guidance above and begin isolation. Per CDC guidance, close contacts of a known COVID-19 positive case should obtain a test five days following the last day of exposure to the positive case. If you received a booster shot, wear a mask for 10 days and get tested on day five, if possible. If you are unvaccinated or you received the primary series of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine more than six months ago or the J&J vaccine over two months ago, you should quarantine for five days. Wear a mask for an additional five days. Get tested on day five, if possible. You must also notify your supervisor that you have come into close contact with someone who has tested positive or who is presumed to have symptoms. If you need assistance, contact Employee Health Services at 215-204-2679. Can I get a COVID-19 test if I don’t have symptoms and do not know if I have been in close contact with anyone who has tested positive for COVID-19? Testing for asymptomatic employees is available at the sites listed below. Do not schedule an appointment at these sites if you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. Instead, please call Employee Health at 215-204-2679. Main Campus Mitten Hall, Great Court Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Paley Hall, Lower Level Room G2 Hours: Monday, Tuesday and Friday, 6:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Health Sciences Center Student Faculty Center, Room 108 Hours: Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. What happens if a student tests positive for COVID-19? The university has adopted the updated quarantine and isolation guidance offered by the CDC. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must isolate for five days; you can leave isolation on day six, if you are fever-free with improving symptoms. If you leave isolation on day six, you must continue wearing your mask around others at all times for an additional five days. After the 10 days you should continue to wear your mask in accordance with Temple’s mask guidelines Student Health Services representatives will conduct contact tracing to determine who has been in close contact (i.e., within six feet for at least 15 minutes) with a student infected with COVID-19 and will provide notification to those individuals. Classrooms and areas accessed by the individual who tested positive for COVID-19 will be cleaned. What steps do I need to take if notified by a student or Student Health Services, that a student has tested positive? If a student self-reports a positive COVID-19 test, record the absence as CRA within the attendance system, which will notify Student Health. Make any reasonable accommodation necessary so that the student can continue to participate in class during any period of isolation or quarantine. Continue with class as scheduled unless instructed otherwise by the contact tracing unit and/or your dean’s office. Student Health will take the lead in notifying affected students, faculty and staff. Faculty should not independently disclose this information. Contact Tracing and Containment Measures Contact tracing is the process of tracking and alerting individuals who have been exposed to the virus. When someone tests positive for or is likely to have COVID-19, contact tracing is how the people they have come into close contact with—and who might have been exposed to the virus—are identified, monitored and supported. The patient’s identity isn’t discussed with the contacts. Temple’s Contact Tracing Unit, developed by Health Services and in partnership with the Philadelphia Department of Public Health, uses interviews and available data to find out where someone who tested positive has been and what areas are the highest risk spaces. Physical distancing and wearing masks helps lessen the risks for all university spaces. Temple’s internal contact tracing unit will continue to interview those who test positive for COVID-19 and identify close contacts. Unvaccinated close contacts will be required to quarantine for five days, including being kept out of class. Close contacts who have received booster shots will be required to get tested for COVID-19 but will not need to quarantine. Isolation housing for those who require it will be available on Main Campus in Johnson Hall. Learn more about contact tracing at Temple. Read Temple Now Travel Expectations for Students and Employees With the start of summer 2021, the university will allow for preapproved domestic travel to resume. International travel is suspended until further notice, unless deemed essential and necessary for the university’s normal course of operations. FAQ: Travel Does the university need to be notified about personal travel plans? While the university has the ability to approve and track business-related travel, we recognize that individuals may engage in personal travel to a location otherwise restricted by the university. In this situation, we ask that you take the necessary precautions upon your return by observing the 14-day quarantine period before you return to campus. Temple University Japan faculty and staff have a different requirement. See the TUJ FAQ. For your own safety, you should stay up to date on the travel guidelines of reputable international and federal agencies and current federal quarantines. See the CDC’s latest travel notices and the U.S. Department of State’s travel advisories. The World Health Organization also has information and advice about traveling during the COVID-19 pandemic on its website. Is it safe to travel outside of the United States, or are there travel restrictions? International travel is suspended until further notice, unless deemed essential and necessary for the university’s normal course of operations. If faculty/staff feel that their trip cannot be rescheduled and is necessary as part of their position or career/educational advancement, they can submit a COVID-19 Travel Exception Form. Students who feel that their trip cannot be rescheduled and is necessary as part of their degree should refer to the International Travel Policy for information regarding the petition process. More details regarding COVID-19 international and domestic travel guidance can be found in the COVID-19 Travel Protocol on TUportal. For information regarding the status of Temple Rome, Temple Japan and other undergraduate study abroad programs, visit Education Abroad’s website. Advisories and alerts related to international travel can be found on the Gateway to Finance website. Is it safe to travel within the United States, or are there travel restrictions? With the start of summer 2021, the university will allow for preapproved domestic travel to resume. More details regarding COVID-19 international and domestic travel guidance can be found in the COVID-19 Travel Protocol on TUportal. The CDC advises that remaining at home is the best way to protect yourself from contracting or spreading the virus, as some people who are infected may exhibit no symptoms. If you are considering domestic travel, consult the CDC’s COVID-19 data tracker to learn about outbreaks in the area where you are planning travel and your home state's guidance for self-quarantine for those who have traveled out of state. What are the next steps to ensure health and safety following recent international travel? The CDC advises that anyone who has recently traveled internationally should stay home and closely monitor their own health for 14 days upon return to the U.S. Most importantly, if you develop a fever, cough or have difficulty breathing, you should immediately contact healthcare professionals—your family physician, local health authorities, or Student or Employee Health. You should call before visiting any healthcare provider so that appropriate precautions can be taken. Please note that this situation continues to evolve globally, so you should stay up to date on the CDC’s travel notices and on the U.S. Department of State’s travel advisories if you have plans to travel. Back to Main Coronavirus Page Go back to Life at TempleMore in COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Return Scenario Planning University Communication International Campuses and Programs Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.