<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Janie McDonough MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” My dad always stood in front of the whiteboard. He moved with the grace of a conductor—brows furrowed, eyes darting back and forth, hands continuously gliding the print-jobs magnets from one column to the next. Only after multiple iterations and two water breaks did he take a breath: the press schedule had been set, but only for a moment... before a rush order came in or a pressman called in sick and the process started all over. But my dad did not mind the chaos. In fact, he secretly enjoyed the inevitable hiccups in planned production because this schedule was his favorite puzzle. To anyone else it might have been just a messy whiteboard. As a kid, I worked at Flexo-Graphics—my dad’s small printing business—every weekend. Over time, I realized that his whiteboard wasn’t just a lesson in operations, but also an agent of change for the Flexo-Graphics community. It gave people opportunities for jobs they might not have thought achievable, provided health insurance for 40 families and allowed peace of mind for retirement plans. My personal whiteboard contains lessons that have shaped who I am and represents future opportunities that I choose to write. Excited, yet uncertain, about what the future holds, I am ready to stand tall at my own whiteboard. — Janie McDonough The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College