Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training in Computational, Cognitive, and Systems Neuroscience What is ICoN? The Interdisciplinary Training in Computational, Cognitive, and Systems Neuroscience (ICoN) is a pre-doctoral program in computational cognitive neuroscience. Funds from this program will support the training of advanced pre-doctoral candidates who are capable of applying a combination of empirical and theoretical approaches that decisively address their scientific questions about the mind and brain. Who are the Co-Principal Investigators? David Badre is a leader in computational cognitive neuroscience, using human neuroscience methods from fMRI to ECoG to test mechanistic theories of the human mind and brain. Michael Frank is a leading computational neuroscientist who has extensive experience in bridging different levels of analysis and description in computational theory, and testing these with empirical tests both in humans and in animal models. He has also used this computational approach to study how brain-behavior relationships are altered as a function of disease and treatments, helping to develop the burgeoning field of computational psychiatry and neurology. Christopher Moore is a leader in systems neuroscience, studying circuit level computations in animal models. Going back to his own graduate training, Moore has long worked to bridge his research in animals with fMRI and MEG studies in humans, including by using biophysically realistic computational modeling. ICoN includes 33 trainers from six academic departments and two clinical departments at Brown University. Who is elegible to apply? To qualify for this cross-training program, students must have completed at least two years of their graduate studies at Brown University and propose a project that will span experimental models or approaches and benefit from different disciplines. Students must be enrolled in one of the following Ph.D. programs: Applied Mathematics; Biomedical Engineering; Biostatistics; Cognitive, Linguistic & Psychological Sciences; Computer Science; and Neuroscience. ICoN supports up to seven students annually. International students are eligible to apply. How do I apply? Nominations are accepted during the spring semester for the following academic year. For more information, download this presentation about the ICoN training program, or contact Kristin Webster. Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top