Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date April 13, 2021 2021-04-13 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Joe Cavanagh: Exploring big questions through tiny matter Brown undergraduate Joe Cavanagh researches the principles governing the tiniest elements of matter — work that recently earned him a prestigious Goldwater Scholarship. The diagram above shows some of the molecular orbitals of lead octaboride, an atomic cluster that Cavanagh helped to discover while working in the lab of Professor of Chemistry Lai-Sheng Wang. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — For Joe Cavanagh, chemistry is much more than one of the fundamental fields in the physical sciences. “Chemistry is a very eclectic science informed by physics, math and intuition,” he said. “As a subject, it’s old, but I wouldn’t say it’s straightforward — it’s a big, confusing mess of lots of different principals, some of which we can mathematically formulate and some of which we just can’t.” Fascinated by this complexity since high school, Cavanagh said he came to Brown because its Open Curriculum would enable him to carve an academic path that followed his own curiosity — about chemistry, the principles beneath it, and the complex, real-world phenomena that it has the potential to explain. “I came here to learn about chemistry, learn about science and learn about how the world works,” he said. “For me, getting to chase different ideas that interest me is how I learn these things best.” As a junior chemical physics concentrator, Cavanagh studies quantum mechanics — a field at the intersection of chemistry and physics that theorizes the principles governing the tiniest elements of matter: atoms and the subatomic particles that compose them. “If I want to understand the world around me, it makes sense to start with this fundamental groundwork,” he said. “ I thought it was going to be really hard to get started with research, but it turned out not to be. I think the culture at Brown has a lot to do with that — it’s a culture where, when we knock on a door, we’re encouraged to come right on in. ” Joe Cavanagh Goldwater Scholar, Member of Class of 2022 Tweet this quote Research in the field is at an exciting juncture, he said, with new advances in technology — such as quantum computers, which can perform computations exponentially faster than today’s computers — on the cusp of solving equations that have long been written off as “too hard.” Cavanagh himself has been involved in quantum chemistry research since his first year at Brown, when he joined the lab of Professor of Chemistry Lai-Sheng Wang, where he contributes to a project characterizing nanoclusters, microscopic clusters of atoms that can serve as catalysts, medicines and the building blocks for new materials. As a first-year student approaching Wang in his office, Cavanagh said, he didn’t know what to expect. “I thought it was going to be really hard to get started with research, but it turned out not to be,” he said. “I think the culture at Brown has a lot to do with that — it’s a culture where, when we knock on a door, we’re encouraged to come right on in.” Nearly three years later, he said, “I’ve been able to do things that I never realized were possible.” Cavanagh’s research was nationally recognized in Spring 2021, when he earned a Goldwater Scholarship, an award that supports promising sophomores and juniors who plan to pursue research careers in the natural sciences, mathematics and engineering. Cavanagh learned about the scholarship from another of his mentors at Brown — Brenda Rubenstein, an assistant professor of chemistry and Goldwater alumna whom he first met when visiting campus as a prospective student. The scholarship, he says, will enable him to continue pursuing quantum mechanics research as he prepares to apply to graduate programs next year. “At the end of the day, I just want to understand the world around myself,” he said. “That's really what science is all about.” Three students win prestigious Goldwater scholarships for excellence in science Joseph Cavanagh, Thomas Usherwood and Hossam Zaki each received Goldwater scholarships, which support students who plan to pursue research careers in the sciences, mathematics and engineering. 2021 Goldwater Scholars at Brown Tags Awards and Fellowships The College Undergraduate Research Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Joe Cavanagh: Exploring big questions through tiny matter Open details for Joe Cavanagh: Exploring big questions through tiny matter Bookmark this Page