Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print University greenhouses power the flowers in Princeton's gardens by Emily Aronson, Office of Communications Aug. 31, 2015, noon Grounds Foreman John Wisniewski tends to flowers at the Princeton University greenhouses. Most flowers planted in campus gardens, such as Prospect Gardens, are grown in the University's greenhouses and nursery. The Campus Grounds staff (part of Facilities Organization) maintains the greenhouses and gardens. Photo by Christopher Lillja, Facilities Organization Visitors to Princeton University's Prospect Gardens may be familiar with the cheerful orange marigolds, pops of pink petunias and bunches of begonias blooming around the lush grounds. What they may not know is that most flowers planted there and in other campus gardens get their start just down the road in the University's greenhouses. Princeton is one of a handful of non-agricultural universities to have its own greenhouses and nursery, which are located off main campus behind Windsor and Rickerson fields. The Campus Grounds staff (part of the Facilities Organization) maintains the greenhouses and campus gardens. "Most of what you see planted on campus originates at the greenhouses," said Devin Livi, assistant director of grounds and landscaping. "I don't think people even know this exists and how much work we do behind the scenes for the gardens on campus." The video below provides a look inside the greenhouses this spring as annual flowers were blooming before being planted on campus for the summer and fall. About 6,000 annuals were grown this year. "No one dictates what [flowers and plants] we need to use, so it's a really great environment to be able to try different things," said Grounds Foreman John Wisniewski, who oversees greenhouse operations and the gardens at the Graduate College, Lowrie House, Palmer House, Prospect House and Wyman House. Wisniewski has worked at the greenhouses for 40 years. "My favorite part is growing the plants from seed or plugs and then planting them in the gardens and watching people enjoy them throughout the summer," he said. "We have groups that come from all over during the summer to tour the gardens, horticulturalists, and they'll make comments on how we use the different plants. I think it's appreciated." Between 12 and 14 Campus Grounds staff work at the enclosed greenhouses and outdoor nursery depending on seasonal needs. "It's a great environment for people who are coming into the University to learn about plants in general," Livi said, adding there are also opportunities for other Facilities staff to volunteer at the facility and learn new horticultural skills such as planting and pruning trees. Play video: Play Video: University greenhouses power the flowers in Princeton's gardens; Video embed #1 This video shows the Princeton University greenhouses this spring as annual flowers bloomed before being planted on campus for the summer and fall. About 6,000 annuals were grown this year. (Video by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) The University has its own greenhouses and nursery thanks to Beatrix Farrand, Princeton's first landscape architect. Farrand argued the University could save money, gain new plant varieties and acclimate plants to the New Jersey environment by growing them in-house. The facility started in 1935 with one greenhouse located between what is now Roberts Stadium and Faculty Road, according to Livi. As greenhouse operations expanded over the years, sustainability also became an important aspect of campus landscaping practices. The University has its own greenhouses thanks to Beatrix Farrand, Princeton's first landscape architect. Farrand argued the University could save money, gain new plant varieties and acclimate plants to the local climate by growing them in-house. (Photo by Christopher Lillja, Facilities Organization) "We're using native trees and shrubs when possible," Livi said. "And we've changed Prospect Gardens a bit throughout history," noting that there used to be more annual plantings, and now more perennial plants are in place. There is also less need for watering and maintenance. "So really the history of the garden has kind of come along with the history of campus, where we're trying to do things more sustainably than we once did," Livi said. The University also recycles about 98 percent of vegetative products (for example, fallen leaves and trees or excavated soils) to make mulch, compost and soil used in the gardens and other landscaping projects. The materials are stored at a compost and mulch yard near the greenhouses. "It allows us to keep everything on campus," said Robert Staudt, grounds planner. "We are recycling everything and we don't need to purchase topsoil or mulch. It's a cost savings and energy savings and it's sustainable." Grounds Planner Robert Staudt stands in front of the University's compost and mulch yard. The University recycles about 98 percent of vegetative products, such as fallen leaves, to make mulch, compost and soil used in campus gardens. (Photo by Christopher Lillja, Facilities Organization) Back in the gardens, sustainability is also considered when the University mixes traditional favorites like spring tulips and summer impatiens with new varieties. "Historically we use certain plantings that we like and know will do well, but we also try different varieties that may come online," Livi said. Lantanas and scaevolas are two examples. While not native to this region, each flower does well in hot and dry conditions. "It saves us so much by not having to water all the time and the beauty we get all summer," Wisniewski said. "Every year we try a few different varieties of plants just to see what does well at Princeton." Pink dahlias (dahlia hybrida) are one type of annual flower planted in Prospect Gardens. (Video still from Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) African daisies (osteospermum speciosa) can be seen on campus at Prospect Gardens, Maclean House and the Elm Drive guard booth. (Video still from Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Orange marigolds (tagetes erecta) can be seen on campus in Prospect Gardens and at the circle in front of Prospect House, and also are planted near some athletic fields. (Video still from Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Lantanas (lantana camera) are an annual flower planted in Prospect Gardens and the Wyman House garden. Wisniewski says they are a carefree plant because they like the sun, do not need much water and will bloom in Princeton through the summer and fall. (Video still from Danielle Alio, Office of Communications) Related Stories In focus: Prospect Garden Read more Discovering the secret gardens of Princeton Read more University greenhouses power the flowers in Princeton's gardens Read more University to name courtyard for influential landscape architect Beatrix Farrand Read more Video feature: 'Princeton Trees' Read more Evergreen beauty of campus gardens thrives year round Read more Colors of campus come into focus in spring Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice