Skip to main content Business Services Campus Maps University of Pennsylvania Secondary Menu About us Make a Payment Events & Seminars Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. More Drawer Menu Main Header Menu Forgivable Loan For Home Purchases For Home Improvements Managing the Loan Make a Payment Closing Cost Reduction Requirements Who is Eligible Boundaries and Map Featured Lenders Program Disclaimers Resources Educational Sessions How Much House Can I Afford? Finding a Lender FAQs Glossary Apply Complete Our Intake Form Application Process Drawer Menu Main Header Menu Forgivable Loan Explore Back to main menu Forgivable Loan For Home Purchases For Home Improvements Managing the Loan Make a Payment Closing Cost Reduction Requirements Explore Back to main menu Requirements Who is Eligible Boundaries and Map Featured Lenders Program Disclaimers Resources Explore Back to main menu Resources Educational Sessions How Much House Can I Afford? Finding a Lender FAQs Glossary Apply Explore Back to main menu Apply Complete Our Intake Form Application Process Search Group Created with Sketch. Home Ownership Services for the Penn Community Fostering Penn's commitment to West Philadelphia Learn More Upcoming Workshops More Events For Staff Home Buying 101 01:00pm - 02:00pm View event For Staff Exploring the PHOS Program Webinar 01:00pm - 02:00pm View event For Staff Home Buying 101 01:00pm - 02:00pm View event For Staff Exploring the PHOS Program Webinar 01:00pm - 02:00pm View event Promoting Home Ownership Since 1990 Penn Home Ownership Services helps foster the University's commitment to neighborhood development by offering incentives and support to eligible faculty and staff to purchase and renovate homes. See if you are eligible Explore our Programs Penn Home Ownership Services offers eligible employees the opportunity to apply for closing cost assistance for home purchasing and funds towards home improvement. The department also offers resources for home buyers and educational workshops. Closing Cost Reduction Program The Closing Cost Reduction Program (CCRP) offers mortgage financing options with discounted closing costs (.25% of mortgaged amount) for the purchase and refinancing of a home when purchasing a residence within the PHOS boundary area. Learn More Forgivable Loan Program The University's $7,500 forgivable loan program is an incentive for faculty and staff interested in living and/or currently residing in the West Philadelphia community. These loans can be used for closing costs, down payment, to buy down points, and/or for interior or exterior home improvements. LEARN More More About Penn Home Ownership Services 3401 Walnut St. Ste. 440A Philadelphia, PA 19104-6228 Phone: 215-898-7422 Fax: 215-898-0488 phos@upenn.edu Contact Us Privacy Policy Disclaimer Provide Feedback Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104