Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Ethnic Programs & Services right arrow down arrow EPS Staff Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program right arrow down arrow Legacy of Turner Signature Programs Turner FAQs Identity Based Initiatives right arrow down arrow Asian Student Initiatives BEARchats Latino Student Initiatives Native American Initiatives Undocumented and DACA Student Initiatives WorldFest PR1ZE ALLC Events and Announcements Stay Connected Home » Campus Life » Ethnic Programs & Services » Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program Set Navigation title in component Legacy of Turner Signature Programs Turner FAQs Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program The Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program (formerly known as the Minority Scholars Program) was established in 1976 to honor Darwin T. Turner, an African American student who, at the age of 16, was the youngest person ever to graduate from the University of Cincinnati. The Office of Ethnic Programs & Services offers this scholarship program to promote academic excellence, foster diversity, and provide leadership and service opportunities to incoming students. In addition to providing full-tuition funding, Darwin T. Turner Scholars are expected to participate in programs and activities designed to improve their intellectual, personal, and professional development. The program's goal is to enrich the educational environment for undergraduate students by supporting the recruitment and retention of underrepresented groups with high potential for academic success at the University of Cincinnati. Qualifying Criteria To qualify for consideration, incoming freshmen must: Be a graduating high school senior or have not been previously enrolled post-high school as a student at a college/university Have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 (based on an unweighted 4.0 scale) Have a minimum 24 Composite ACT or 1160 Combined SAT-R (Math and Critical Reading sections) [*OPTIONAL for Fall 2021 and 2022] Seek admission to a baccalaureate degree program Application & Invitation For maximum scholarship consideration, students must have a complete UC Admission Common Application by Dec. 1 of their senior year. The Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program does not involve a separate application process. Instead, eligible students who complete the UC admission process by December 1 are invited to compete for awards. Preference is given to individuals who meet at least one of the following: First-generation college student Member of an underrepresented group with regard to race, ethnic or tribal background or heritage Demonstrate involvement, leadership, and/or advocacy for the diversity and inclusion of marginalized populations, which includes, but is not limited to race, ethnicity, and gender Students invited to apply for the Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program are asked to provide a statement/respond to essay questions on their diversity and/or leadership experiences. These responses are carefully reviewed by a committee of faculty, staff, and alumni representatives from across the university. Final decisions regarding scholarship recipients are made by Mid-February. Only applicants who have been accepted into the program will be notified of their application status via email. Scholarship Requirements & Awards The Darwin T. Turner Scholarship covers the following: 8 semesters of in-state tuition Student fees Book stipend per semester Note: Students not eligible for in-state tuition rates are responsible for their non-resident surcharges that are not covered by the Turner award, and all scholars must meet the undergraduate scholarship policy. If accepted into the Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program, individuals must meet the following requirements: Students must complete at least 12 credit hours per semester (full time student) Students are expected to maintain a minimum of 3.0 cumulative grade point average (GPA) Students must participate in all program seminars and activities (meetings, events, community service, etc.) held throughout the year. Students must complete a minimum of thirty (30) community service hours. Student must sign in weekly to the Office of Ethnic Programs and Services (555 Steger) Students must complete a diversity project. Students must meet with an EPS staff member upon request. Failure to meet any of these requirements can lead to termination from the program. For further information, please email turnscho@ucmail.uc.edu Office of Ethnic Programs and Services 555 Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210092 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6008 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Ethnic Programs and Services 555 Steger Student Life Center P.O. Box 210092 Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6008 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top