Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registrar Classrooms Classroom Scheduling Classroom Descriptions Registrar-Managed Classrooms Building Codes Protocol for Classroom Relocation Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Personal Information Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Registrar Classrooms > Classroom Scheduling Classroom Scheduling Reservation Instructions During the first three weeks of each fall and spring semester, the Office of the University Registrar does not fulfill requests for non-course events. Because this period is always a critical time of shifting enrollments for courses, we must prioritize the needs of our teaching Faculty for classrooms for course-related instruction. Starting the fourth week of the term, all requests for non-course events in Registrar-managed classrooms will be coordinated through University Event Management (UEM). Requests can be made conveniently online using Virtual EMS. Requests can be made conveniently be emailing [email protected]. This change will enable the Office of the University Registrar to prioritize the needs of our teaching Faculty for classrooms for course-related instruction. It also ensures that non-course events are planned and supported efficiently and safely through our campus event partners in UEM. What you need to know: This process applies to all classrooms managed by the Office of the Registrar but not spaces managed independently by a school or department. See a list of Registrar classrooms. Classrooms will be available for request starting the fourth week of every term. Classrooms that are available can be reserved seven days a week, in accordance with current policies and building hours. Room reservations for academic courses end after the last day of each semester and do not continue into the study or exam period. The use of classrooms must be in line with current Registrar and University event policies for affiliates and students. Events must constitute official University activity, be sponsored by a department, or be organized by a recognized student group. Food, beverages, and alcohol are not permitted in classrooms. While there is no fee for academic or student use of classrooms, there is a fee for non-academic use. Depending on the needs of the event, there may be additional charges assessed by Columbia Facilities & Operations, or Columbia Public Safety. Use of classroom technology will still be provided by CUIT’s Classroom and Desktop Technologies group. See a list of classrooms with installed technology. If the technical requirements of your event exceed the capacity of a room’s installed technology, you can request additional audio-visual services by emailing [email protected]. Courses and non-course events on our campus are robust and diverse. We hope this process enables the University community to coordinate the use of space more quickly and easily. If you have any questions or concerns, contact the UEM team at [email protected]. Electronic Classrooms More Information about CUIT Electronic Classrooms Classroom Support Request Form: LINK Podium Computer Application Request Form: LINK Operational Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Support Line: 212-854-3633 For all general inquiries, please email [email protected]. Classroom Scheduling Registrar-Managed Classrooms Building Codes Protocol for Classroom Relocation Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | [email protected]