Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Show/Hide Home People Undergraduate Graduate Courses Research & Projects Events News About Us Position Announcement: Postdoctoral Fellowship in Archaeology and the Ancient World Thursday November 18, 2021 Brown University, Providence, RI The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World at Brown University invites applications for a Postdoctoral Fellowship in Archaeology and the Ancient World. Exceptional junior scholars who can enhance and strengthen our commitment to inclusive education and research and to equality and social justice are encouraged to apply. We especially welcome applicants from historically underrepresented groups and those who identify with a particular ethnicity, race, class, gender, religion, or sexual orientation. We seek candidates who have demonstrated a capacity for innovative research, engaged scholarship, and cross-disciplinary thinking. We are interested in individuals whose work focuses on any region or time period, and who have significant fieldwork experience. Of particular interest are applicants working on environmental aspects of the ancient world in the broadest sense of the term and including human relationships to these, on topics such as landscape, climate change, pastoralism, agriculture, etc. Applicants must have normally received their doctorate from an institution other than Brown within the last five years, and the Ph.D. must be in hand prior to July 1, 2022. We fully understand and appreciate the impact that the current pandemic has had and continues to exert on our lives, personally and professionally, and we will regard ongoing research efforts and publication records in that light. In addition to pursuing their research, successful candidates will be expected to teach one course per semester. Teaching may be at both the undergraduate and graduate levels; interdisciplinary offerings are desirable. Successful candidates will be expected to make substantive contributions to the ongoing development of the Joukowsky Institute, through the organization of reading or working groups, a topical symposium, or another project intended to foster a stimulating intellectual environment in which to pursue research and to develop new interdisciplinary or community connections. This will be a two-year position, with confirmation after one year, beginning on July 1, 2022. Application Instructions All candidates should submit a letter of application, curriculum vitae, short descriptions of 3-4 proposed courses (150-300 words each), a statement (150-300 words) of their experience and/or ideas for prioritizing diversity and inclusion in their teaching and research, and contact information for three references by February 15, 2022. Applications received by February 15, 2022 will receive full consideration, but the search will remain open until the position is closed or filled. Please submit application materials online at apply.interfolio.com/99025. There is no need to provide hard copies of application materials for those that have already been submitted electronically. For further information: Professor Peter van Dommelen Chair, Search Committee Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World Brown University Box 1837 / 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 [email protected] Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Apply via Interfolio Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology Brown University Box 1837 Rhode Island Hall, 60 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3188 Fax: 401-863-9423 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat