Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Connect Connect Visit Visit Apply Apply Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Admission Connect Connect Request Information Meet the Team Visit Campus Visit Campus Virtual Visits Perkins Comes to You Apply Apply Application Steps Application Submission Dates Degrees at a Glance International Students Affording Seminary Affording Seminary Scholarships Financial Literacy Bursar's Office Cost Summary Admit Portal ☰ SMU Perkins School of Theology Perkins Admission Perkins Admission Request Information Loading... Request info Explore Perkins Connect Visit Apply pause play hide show Community Perkins School of Theology is a diverse and nurturing community. In an increasingly polarized world, Perkins is a unique place where servant leaders gather together as a hospitable community in Christ and learn from each other across differences and boundaries. Learn more about the Perkins community from our dean. Context Our distinctive locus within Southern Methodist University, our partnerships with vibrant and unparalleled ministries in Dallas and Houston-Galveston, and our setting within the Southwest U.S. provides students with an extraordinary range of unique opportunities to pursue rigorous study, expand their horizons, and encourage their creativity. Perkins students receive all of the benefits afforded to SMU students, including academic concentrations that comprise coursework at other top-ranked graduate schools at SMU, and access to SMU’s state-of-the-art facilities and notable events. Opportunity At Perkins, we challenge students to discern, test and nurture their gifts as servant leaders and thereby to realize the full potential of their calling. Balancing theological formation with practical and innovative leadership experiences, Perkins prepares both those pursuing traditional ministry and those committed to new and entrepreneurial forms of service to the local community, church and world. Learn more about some of our unique programs including Global Theological Education, Baptist House of Studies and others below. Perkins by the Numbers 63% United Methodists with more than 20 other denominations represented Student body of more than 300 students Located in Dallas, Texas, with a hybrid extension program in Houston-Galveston Faculty of 30, 40% female and more than 1/3 representing minority ethnic groups Approximately 54% female, 46% male students 42% of students represent minority ethnic groups Alumni/ae network across the globe, from Australia to Zimbabwe Flexibility: Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Perkins meets you where you are. Learn more Minister-Author-Scholar-Teacher (MAST) Program For students interested in writing or creating other media for the church and academy. Learn more Previous Next pause play hide show An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share