Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Arts Access Benefits CAA Arts Access Benefits CAA Arts Access offers discounts at leading cultural organizations. Receive invitations to special events and discount offers just for the Columbia arts community. If you are an arts institution and would like to consider joining the Cultural Partners program, please contact us at [email protected] Discounts from our Cultural Partners 59E59 Theaters CAA Arts Access Members receive 20% off tickets to all performances with code CAAL59. Limited 2 tickets per offer. This offer is available by phone and web. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members may enter the discount code at checkout when purchasing online. To purchase by phone, call the Box Office mananged by Ticket Central at 212-279-4200. Artforum International CAA Arts Access Members can purchase a subscription to Artforum International Magazine at over 60% off cover price with this special discounted one year subscription offer for $50. Offer includes a subscription to Bookforum and full access to online archive. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members can redeem this discount by using the link here. Athena Film Festival CAA Arts Access Members receive 15% discount on tickets with code 20AFFPartner. Early bird discount on Athena Film Festival Pass available for a limited time. How to redeem: Enter discount code at checkout when purchasing online. The Athena Film Festival will take place on February 27-March 1, 2019. Center Theatre Group CAA Arts Access Members have the opportunity to purchase specially-priced tickets to designated performances at Center Theatre Group's Ahmanson Theatre and Mark Taper Forum at The Music Center in downtown Los Angeles, as well as Kirk Douglas Theatre in Culver City. How to redeem: Purchase tickets directly on the Columbia Alumni dedicated page here. Chelsea Music Festival CAA Arts Access Members receive discounts on General Admission tickets to performances. This offer is available by web and will be announced via the monthly newsletter. How to redeem: Enter discount code at checkout when purchasing online. Check back in May 2020 for updated code. The Chelsea Music Festival will take place in June 2020. Columbia University Press CAA Arts Access Members receive 30% discount off any CUP titles in stock. How to redeem: Enter promo code ALUM at checkout. Film Forum CAA Arts Access Members receive $10 off a year-long $125 Film Forum membership. How to redeem: Purchase membership directly on the Columbia Alumni dedicated page here. Gold Club CAA Arts Access Members receive 40% discount on standard membership fee, only $47.99 for an entire year (regularly $79.99). Gold Club members receive access to a private, curated list of shows from Theatermania. How to redeem: Purchase membership here. Gotham Writers' Workshop CAA Arts Access Members receive a 10% discount on tuition on their first 10-week workshop with code CAAL. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members can redeem this discount by using the discount code at time of registration. Hollywood Bowl CAA Arts Access Members receive a 30% discount off ticket prices for seats in select sections for the following shows using: AUG 16-17 Jurassic Park in Concert AUG 20 Peter and the Wolf AUG 23-25 Pink Martini SEP 5 Mozart Under the Stars SEP 6-7 Barry Manilow How to redeem: Enter promo code UNDERTHESTARS at checkout. Jazz at Lincoln Center CAA Arts Access Members receive discounted tickets to select shows throughout the season. Offers will be announced via the monthly Arts Access newsletter when available. How to redeem: Enter promo code at checkout. The Library of America CAA Arts Access Members receive 15% off already discounted prices on all titles purchased through the LOA Web Store. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members can redeem this discount by visiting the LOA web store and entering the discount code CAAL15 at checkout. Museum of Arts and Design CAA Arts Access members receive $4 off general admission tickets and $25 off Dual/Family and Contributing level memberships with code. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members may enter the promo code CAAMAD at checkout when purchasing online or mention code at the Admissions Desk. NADA Miami CAA Arts Access members receive 20% off Single Day or Run of Show ticket (admits one) with code. NADA Miami is from December 5–8, 2019 at the Ice Palace Studios, Miami, FL. How to redeem: Enter promo code Columbia20 at checkout. The New Yorker CAA Arts Access Members can purchase a subscription to The New Yorker at a discounted rate of $25 for 25 issues. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access Members can redeem this discount by calling the New Yorker/Columbia Alumni Members Hotline at 1.800.825.2510 and mentioning the discount code M1JPRCOLZ and that the subscription is $25. Shakespeare Theatre of New Jersey CAA Arts Access Members receive a discounted price of $20 for the Shaw! Shaw! Shaw! bundle, available for viewing through March 12. How to redeem: Enter promo code CAA20 at checkout here. Symphony Space CAA Arts Access Members are offered discounts to select films and performances offered at Symphony Space. Offers will be announced via the monthly Arts Access newsletter when available. How to redeem: Enter promo code at checkout. TicketsatWork CAA Arts Access members have access to the leading Corporate Entertainment Benefits provider. Receive exclusive discounts, special offers and access to preferred seating and tickets to top attractions, theme parks, shows including Broadway, sporting events, movie tickets, hotels and much more. How to redeem: CAA Arts Access members must sign up on the TicketsatWork website here and select Company Code and enter code CAAarts. Tribeca Film Festival CAA Arts Access members receive $5 off General Admission tickets and $10 off Tribeca Talks with code. Check back in April 2020 for updated code. Tribeca Film Festival is on April 15-May 26, 2020. How to redeem: Enter promo code at checkout. Untapped New York CAA Arts Access Members receive 2 months free membership to Untapped New York Insider with code COLUMBIA. Membership includes free virtual tours, video archive, access to members-only events, and $5 off Untapped New York tours. How to redeem: Enter coupon code at checkout on the membership sign up page here. Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close