COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Educational Leadership - Educational Psychology, Doctorate DoctorateEducational Leadership - Educational Psychology All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Doctor of Education (EdD) in educational leadership - educational pscyhology gives practicing professionals a depth of knowledge in how people think, learn and lead with opportunities for research contributions and other types of professional applications. This three-year, individually tailored program involves student-faculty research benefitting local educational institutions. Rather than the typical lecture classroom, all courses are offered as hybrid or online. Fall and spring courses meet once a week, and summer courses are offered in a hybrid (in-person/online) format. Learn how Educational Leadership - Educational Psychology is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Basic admission requirements include: A 3.5 minimum GPA for the last 60 hours Submission of official college transcripts Three references Professional resume or vita of educational and professional experience Sample of academic writing A statement of professional goals For complete admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student works to reform juvenile justice policy After several years teaching English to children in the Sedgwick County Juvenile Detention Facility, Kristi Arends felt compelled to do more. She enrolled in the Educational Leadership program, which allowed her to apply the theoretical knowledge in the classroom to practical school situations -- and eventually to become a passionate advocate for juvenile justice reform. Curriculum The program requires 55 credit hours of coursework, comprehensive examinations and an oral dissertation examination. Students take two years of coursework together and the third year is dedicated to the dissertation. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and on your career. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Educational Psychology (Master's) Educational Leadership (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©