Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES AND CIVILIZATION UYGUR Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 UYGUR 101 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. Cannot be taken for credit if UYGUR 105 taken. First in a sequence of three. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 101 UYGUR 102 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. Cannot be taken for credit if UYGUR 105 taken. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UYGUR 101. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 102 UYGUR 103 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. Cannot be taken for credit if UYGUR 105 taken. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UYGUR 102. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 103 UYGUR 105 Intensive Elementary Uygur (15) Covers all four linguistic skills: reading, writing, speaking, and listening. Cannot be taken for credit if UYGUR 101, UYGUR 102, UYGUR 103 taken. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 105 UYGUR 201 Intermediate Uygur (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. First in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: either UYGUR 103 or UYGUR 105. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 201 UYGUR 202 Intermediate Uygur (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UYGUR 201. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 202 UYGUR 203 Intermediate Uygur (5) VLPA Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: UYGUR 202. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 203 UYGUR 401 Uygur through Culture I (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 203. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 401 UYGUR 402 Uygur through Culture II (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 401. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 402 UYGUR 403 Uygur through Culture III (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 402. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 403 UYGUR 490 Supervised Study (1-6, max. 18) Special work in literary texts for graduates and undergraduates. Prerequisite: either UYGUR 203 or TKIC 429. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 490 UYGUR 496 Special Studies in Uygur (3-5, max. 15) VLPA Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 496 UYGUR 499 Undergraduate Research (3-5, max. 15) For Turkic language and literature majors. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 499 UYGUR 511 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. First in a sequence of three. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 511 UYGUR 512 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. Second in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 511. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 512 UYGUR 513 Elementary Uygur (5) Emphasizes the four basic language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing in Uygur. Focuses on exchanging real-life information in the context of the native-speaking environment and understanding Uygur language through the cultural contexts. Third in a sequence of three. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 512. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 513 UYGUR 521 Intermediate Uygur (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 513. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 521 UYGUR 522 Intermediate Uygur (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 521. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 522 UYGUR 523 Intermediate Uygur (5) Designed to strengthen and develop further skills in listening, speaking, reading and writing and to deepen an understanding of the cultural context of Uygur. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in elementary Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 522. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 523 UYGUR 541 Uygur through Culture I (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 523. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 541 UYGUR 542 Uygur through Culture II (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 541. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 542 UYGUR 543 Uygur through Culture III (5) Designed to increase functional proficiency in speaking, reading, writing and comprehending the Uygur language through reading and discussion of contemporary sociocultural and sociopolitical topics in a culturally authentic context. Emphasis on the expansion and refinement of linguistic and communicative skills learned in intermediate Uygur. Prerequisite: minimum grade of 2.0 in UYGUR 542. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 543 UYGUR 596 Special Studies in Uygur (3-5, max. 15) Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 596 UYGUR 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: UYGUR 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022