Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Get Help First Five Days After an Assault Decisions about your safety DECISIONS ABOUT YOUR SAFETY Go to a safe place as soon as you can and ask someone you trust to stay with you. Brown students can call the Sexual Assault Response Line (401.863-6000) for immediate medical, counseling or police assistance. If you want to report the crime, notify Brown's Department of Public Safety immediately at 401.863-4111. For some, reporting the crime can help regain a sense of personal power and control. A campus advocate will be available to accompany you. (More information on this resource below.) If you are away from Brown, call 911 or the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 1-800-656-HOPE. Try to preserve all evidence of the assault. Avoid drinking, bathing, showering, douching, brushing your teeth, or changing your clothes. Evidence can be collected at an emergency room and you can decide later whether or not you want to press criminal charges. Try to write down, or have a friend write down, everything you can remember about the incident including a physical description of the perpetrator, their identity if you know it, and the use of threats or force. You can have evidence collected (Rape Kit) at a nearby hospital and decide later whether you want to press charges. Collecting physical evidence must occur within 96 hours (4 days) at a local emergency room. See details on hospitals below. Time sensitive medical decisions All services, except evidence collection and drug testing, can be provided for Brown students by Health Services. If you are concerned about pregnancy, you can prevent pregnancy by taking emergency contraception within 120 hours (5 days) of the assault. Emergency contraception is most effective when taken as soon as possible. HIV prophylaxis treatment needs to be started within 72 hours. If you think you were drugged or consumed a sedative-like substance, ask the medical provider to take a urine sample. Date rape drugs like GHB and Rohypnol are more likely to be detected in urine than in blood. If you still have remnants of the drink, save them for analysis. Screening for date rape drugs can be done up to 72 hours after the incident but is optimally done within 12 hours. Since many of these drugs clear the system quickly, a negative test result does not necessarily mean that no drug was involved. You can decide what medical care you want or don't want. It's important to discuss STIs, date rape drug screening and pregnancy prevention with a medical provider. What are my options on and off campus? IMPORTANT INFORMATION AND RESOURCES A note about confidential resources: Information shared with confidential resources (including information about whether an individual has received services) will only be disclosed to the Title IX coordinator or any other person with the individual's express written permission, unless there is an imminent threat of serious harm to the individual or to others, or a legal obligation to reveal such information (e.g., if there is suspected abuse or neglect of a minor). Get help by calling one of these sexual assault resources: Sexual Assault Response Line, 401.863-6000. This number can connect you with the confidential help of the Sexual Assault Crisis Counselor who can provide you with information as well as accompany you to the hospital if needed. BWell SHARE Advocates, 401.863-2794, [email protected]. Confidential support. Located on the Ground Level of the Health & Wellness Center at 450 Brook St. The SHARE (Sexual Harm Acute Response & Empowerment) Advocates in BWell Health Promotion are confidential resources at Brown that can provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, or Stalking, that has taken place at any time in their lives. Confidential services include acute responses or ongoing empowerment-based support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, including help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice) and/or navigating resources at Brown and in the community.*This is a survivor-centered resource for people who have experienced sexual harm. For a complete list of on and off-campus resources, click here. What types of care are available at local hospitals? Hasbro Children’s Hospital 593 Eddy Street, Providence 401.444-4000 Will care for patients under 18. Serves patients of all gender identities. Serves patients who may be intoxicated (alcohol and/or other drugs). Provides medical care, including STI and HIV prophylaxis and emergency contraception. Offers testing for drug-facilitated sexual assault up to 72 hours after an assault, even if you don’t want to have the evidence collection exam. (Be aware that some drugs may not be detectable after 12 hours.) Can provide the evidence collection exam up to 72 hours after an assault. Will offer a Day One Advocate if you prefer off-campus support. (For a confidential crisis counselor from Brown, you can contact the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401.863-6000.) Cost of treatment and evidence collection may be covered by Rhode Island’s Victim Compensation Fund. Be sure to tell the receptionist that you have been sexually assaulted and don’t want your insurance to be billed. Women and Infants Hospital 101 Dudley Street, Providence 401.274-1100 Serves female and all trans patients who are 14 or older. Does NOT serve patients who are incapacitated. Provides medical care, including STI and HIV prophylaxis and emergency contraception. Offers testing for drug-facilitated sexual assault. Can provide the evidence collection exam up to 96 hours (4 days) after an assault. Will offer a Day One Advocate if you prefer off-campus support. (For a confidential crisis counselor from Brown, you can contact the Sexual Assault Response Line at 401.863-6000.) Cost of treatment, evidence collection AND the ER visit may be covered by Rhode Island’s Victim Compensation Fund. Be sure to tell the receptionist that you have been sexually assaulted and don’t want your insurance to be billed. Rhode Island Hospital 593 Eddy Street, Providence 401.444-5411 Rhode Island Hospital is a Level One Trauma Center. This is the best hospital for care when someone has life-threatening physical injuries in addition to being sexually assaulted. What if it has been more than five days? ANY TIME AFTER AN ASSAULT Consider getting medical care. You can go to Health Services or your own provider. Even if you think that you do not have any physical injuries, it's important to get medical care to discuss STIs and pregnancy prevention. Talk with a counselor who is trained to assist victims of sexual assault. Try to write down, or have a friend write down, everything you can remember about the incident including a physical description of the perpetrator, their identity if you know it, and the use of threats or force. You have the right to file a complaint on campus (if the person who assaulted you was another Brown student) as well as press charges off campus with the police. A campus advocate can support you through either process. Contact the SHARE Advocates in Health Promotion for confidential support. ([email protected]). Help is available for students who have experienced sexual violence and abuse in a relationship. Confidential services include support for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, help exploring options to address the incident (such as filing a complaint, if that is the student's choice) and educational programs for the student community. When you get support, you do not have to pursue any specific course of action and no action will be taken unless it's something you choose. Consider accessing support from any of these on and off campus resources. Visit the Title IX page for information on Brown's Sexual and Gender-based Misconduct Policy. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment How to Help a Friend When someone has been sexually assaulted, chances are that they will turn to a friend for help. You are an important person to the survivor; this is why the survivor shared this experience with you. Knowing how to respond will be very helpful in your friend's recovery. This page offers guidance on how to best support your friend. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook