Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Martin Museum of Art Menu Visit Tours Visitor Guidelines About Staff Department of Art Events Learn CAE Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Museum Closed for New Installations Upcoming The Sound of Color: Art Inspired by Music Visiting Artist: Dirk Fowler Online Exhibits BFA Senior Exhibition Spring 2022 Baylor Art Student Exhibition 2022 2022 Faculty Biennial Exhibition BFA Senior Exhibition Fall 2021 The Art of the Landscape Baylor Art Student Exhibition 2021 Revisiting Audubon The Floating World Collaboration Word Image Collaboration Samantha Crouch Ashley Mix Kassidy Morinville Cole Nowell Brayley Payne Christine Perera Douglas-Ann Smith John Vest Madison Emily Whisenand Jennifer Cognard-Black Student Presentations: Video Collections Belew Collection McMullen-Connally Family Collection Faculty & Students BFA Information Baylor Art Student Exhibition Information Important Dates Submitting Artwork About the Juror Biennial Faculty Exhibition Information Exhibition Proposal Information Join Login Page Support Give Now Donating Artwork Planned Estate Giving Martin Museum of Art Cultivating Art. Engaging Communities. Expanding Horizons. Current and Upcoming Exhibits See All Exhibits Exhibitions complement the courses of art history and studio art taught within the Department of Art. Temporary and traveling art exhibitions featuring nationally and internationally recognized artists are presented throughout the year. Museum Closed for New Installations The Martin Museum will be closed to prepare for two exciting new installations. Please join us this coming August 2022 for fun interactive engagement, Artist talks and much more. Read More Sound of Color: Art Inspired by Music August 9th - October 2nd Whether visual or performing, creative connections naturally exist in all the arts. They lend themselves to a particular coexistence through expression. Leonardo Nierman explores this theory through his work, Sound of Color suite. Don't miss this fun exhibition! Read More Visiting Artist Dirk Fowler August 16th - November 6th Join us as we welcome visiting graphic artist Dirk Fowler, f2Design. Opening Reception dates to be announced. Check back for more information. Read More Permanent Collection The Permanent Collection at the Martin Museum of Art is comprised of approximately 1,500 artworks generously donated by artists, collectors, and corporations, or purchased with acquisition funds. The Martin Museum collects artwork for the purpose of supporting the academic and artistic scholarship of its students and faculty and to further the enjoyment and understanding of art throughout Waco and Central Texas. Permanent Collection Visit Us The Martin Museum of Art offers both guided and self-led tours for college classes, K-12 classes, special interest groups and organizations, and for the general public. The Martin Museum of Art is located in the Hooper-Schaefer Fine Arts Center at Baylor University, Waco, Texas. Hours of Operation Admission is free. Last entry is at 4:00pm. Sunday: 1 pm - 5 pm Monday: Closed Tuesday - Saturday: 10 am - 5 pm More Visitation Information Events See More Events UPCOMING EXHIBITIONS Exhibitions complement the courses of art history and studio art taught within the Department of Art. Temporary and traveling art exhibitions featuring nationally and internationally recognized artists are presented throughout the year. LEARN MORE BFA Fall 2021 John Harlan Norris: Portrait Procedures Biennial Faculty Exhibition 2022 Martin Museum of Art Address:Martin Museum of Art Hooper-Schaefer Fine Arts Center 60 Baylor Ave Waco, TX 76707 (254) 710-6371 martin_museum@baylor.edu Mailing List Contact Us Visit All Exhibitions Give General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Visit Tours Visitor Guidelines About Staff Department of Art Events Learn CAE Exhibitions Current Exhibitions Museum Closed for New Installations Upcoming The Sound of Color: Art Inspired by Music Visiting Artist: Dirk Fowler Online Exhibits BFA Senior Exhibition Spring 2022 Baylor Art Student Exhibition 2022 2022 Faculty Biennial Exhibition BFA Senior Exhibition Fall 2021 The Art of the Landscape Baylor Art Student Exhibition 2021 Revisiting Audubon The Floating World Collaboration Word Image Collaboration Samantha Crouch Ashley Mix Kassidy Morinville Cole Nowell Brayley Payne Christine Perera Douglas-Ann Smith John Vest Madison Emily Whisenand Jennifer Cognard-Black Student Presentations: Video Collections Belew Collection McMullen-Connally Family Collection Faculty & Students BFA Information Baylor Art Student Exhibition Information Important Dates Submitting Artwork About the Juror Biennial Faculty Exhibition Information Exhibition Proposal Information Join Login Page Support Give Now Donating Artwork Planned Estate Giving