COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Research Workshops Section Menu About Us Contact Us Compliance Conflict of Interest Excellence Awards External Grant Opportunities FAQs Financial Management Foreign Influence Institutional Animal Care & Use Committee IMCP INSIDE RESEARCH & Funding Opportunities Institutional Review Board Internal Grant Opportunities Post Award Proposals Research Calendar Research Centers at WSU Research Monthly Awards Research Payroll Research Survey Research Workshops SBIR STTR Programs WSU Strategic Initiatives APLU IEP Cyber Security and Forensics Research Airline Quality Rating Tech Transfer and Commercialization Office of Research Home Page Office of Research Workshop: Writing Proposals: Thursday, June 2nd, 2022, at 1 pm Central Fran Cook of the WSU Office of Research will discuss the basics of proposal writing for grants. The workshop will be held via zoom. Email proposals@wichita.edu to receive a link to this workshop, or sign up via myTraining. Office of Research Workshop: Using Pivot to Search for Funding: Tuesday, June 7th, 2022, at 3 pm Central Fran Cook of the WSU Office of Research will demonstrate tips and tricks for using Pivot to search for funding opportunities. The workshop will be held via zoom. Please sign up for a Pivot account in advance so that you may practice searching Pivot during the workshop. Email proposals@wichita.edu to receive a link to the Pivot workshop or to request instructions for creating a Pivot account at WSU. NCURA Webinars: Developing Compelling Budget Justifications Budget justifications have taken on increasing significance in recent years, moving from explaining to reviewers the basis of cost calculations to persuading them that the items are critical to the success of the project. In this webinar, you will learn how to craft a budget justification that not only conforms to Uniform Guidance expectations but also effectively establishes the credibility of the proposed project. Infrastructure supports will also be explored, including sample questions, templates, and automation. Inserting a few more specific details in targeted places in the narrative and budget justification can earn the essential benefit of the doubt points that elevate your projects into the “Funded” category. This session is designed for individuals who have at least a couple years of experience with proposal writing or have responsibility for assisting faculty with proposal development. Speakers: Jeremy T. Miner, MA Director of Grants and Contracts University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire Irina P. Diaz, BA Preaward Specialist University of Wisconsin-Madison Dennis J. Paffrath, MBA Associate Vice President of Research Administration University of Maryland, Baltimore Developing Compelling Budget Justifications - August 16, 2021 Developing Compelling Budget Justifications Presentation Slides Past Workshop Recordings: Introduction to WSU Office of Research Topics will include 1) WSU research office resources and contacts, 2) finding funding, 3) project budgeting and 4) grant-writing tips Introduction to WSU Office of Research - August 27, 2021 Introduction to WSU Office of Research Handouts Institutional Review Board & Data Security Topics Covered: Institutional Review Board (IRB) - Discussion on process of applying to the WSU IRB for research involving human subjects. Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act (HIPAA) - Discussion about HIPAA and its relevance to University researchers. Data Security - Discussion on data security with regard to sensitive data such as personally-identifying information, controlled unclassified information, and research data in general. This workshop is recommended especially for those in health professions, and those whose research involves working with human subjects or sensitive data. Institutional Review Board & Data Security - December 4, 2020 Institutional Review Board & Data Security - December 8, 2020 Faculty Support Committee This is a panel discussion with the WSU Faculty Support Committee about internal grant funding opportunities available to WSU Faculty, including the URCA, ARC and MURPA. The WSU Faculty Support committee will describe: Each funding opportunity, The rating criteria that is used to evaluate applications, and How to improve your likelihood of receiving this internal funding. Faculty Support Committee - August 26, 2021 Faculty Support Committee Powerpoint Internal Grant Opportunities Handouts Hanover Research Workshops Grants for Clinical & Health Sciences Faculty Topics will include: an overview of agencies and opportunities specific to health sciences/clinical faculty (e.g. NIH, HRSA, PCORI), followed by a grant consultant panel with expertise in this area. Grants for Clinical & Health Sciences Faculty: Federal Profiles - October 30, 2020 Grants for Clinical & Health Sciences Faculty: Foundation Profiles - October 30, 2020 Grants for Clinical & Health Sciences Faculty Handouts Building Your Research Career Topics will include: an overview of research opportunities for mid-career faculty, how to get back into research after a pause, incremental funding strategies, and program officer outreach. Building Your Research Career: Prospecting & Networking - October 30, 2020 Building Your Research Career: Grant Seeking Strategy - October 30, 2020 Building Your Research Career Handouts Good vs. Fundable Proposals Topics will include: the difference between a good project and a fundable one, with particular emphasis on how to speak to funders’ expectations around innovation. Good vs Fundable Proposals - January 22, 2021 Good vs Fundable Proposals Handouts How to Write a Concept Paper Handout PO Outreach Guidance Handout Links and Resources Handout National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) R15 This workshop will discuss the National Institutes of Health’s R15 funding mechanism and applying to NIH overall. The R15 is now known as a Research Enhancement Award. WSU is eligible to receive Research Enhancement Awards, which support small-scale research projects at institutions that have not received major NIH support. NIH R15 funding goals include: Supporting meritorious research, Exposing students to research and Strengthening the research environment of the institution. NIH R15 - January 27, 2021 NIH R15 Handouts National Science Foundation's (NSF) Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences Directorate (SBE) On April 21 at 3 pm CT, Kansas State University’s Office of Research is hosting an overview session via zoom on the National Science Foundation’s (NFS) Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences Directorate (SBE). Our speaker is Dr. Kellina M. Craig Henderson, SBE’s current Deputy Assistant Director. This Directorate focuses on human behavior and social organizations, in particular how economic, political, environmental, social, and cultural forces affect the lives of people from birth to old age – and how people in turn shape those forces. SBE consists of four divisions—Behavioral and Cognitive Sciences, Social and Economic Sciences, Office of Multidisciplinary Activities and National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics. The funding opportunities offered by this directorate reflect the diversity of its research interests. Login Information SBE Directorate Overview Flyer National Science Foundation Seminars On April 23, 2021 and April 30, 2021 Dr. Coleen Pugh and Dr. Jan Twomey presented two seminars on applying to the National Science Foundation. Dr. Pugh covered topics related to general NSF proposal development; Dr. Twomey discussed both the NSF CAREER and NSF ERI programs. NSF Workshop Slides - Dr. Coleen Pugh (2021-04-23) Webinar Recording - Dr. Twomey (2021-04-30) NSF Workshop Slides - NSF CAREER - Dr. Twomey (2021-04-30) NSF Workshop Slides - NSF ERI - Dr. Twomey (2021-04-30) LAS Humanities Funding Opportunities On March 10, 2022 Dr. Pugh, Vice Provost for research at Wichita State University presented a zoom meeting for LAS Faculty, especially for those Faculty in the Social Sciences and the Humanities. The WSU Office of Research assists WSU Faculty in aplying for external funding. At the Zoom meeting, we discussed: Previous awards received by LAS and LAS' research performance; Dr. Darren DeFrain's grant experience, as he recently received funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities; Information about the Office of Research, resources to assist Faculty, and potential funding sources; and Information about working with the WSU Foundation on finding funding. Office of Research LAS Humanities Visit (2022-03-10) Handout_Foundation Grants FAQ Handout_LAS Funding for Research Handout_FY21 for LAS WSU Research Handout_Dr. DeFrain: The Vizling App Grant Writing Health Professions Funding Opportunities On May 2, 2022 Dr. Pugh, Vice Provost for Research at Wichita State University presented a zoom meeting for Health Professions Faculty. The WSU Office of Research assists WSU Faculty in applying for external funding. At the Zoom meeting, we discussed: Previous awards received by Health Professions and Health Professions’ research performance; Information about the Office of Research, resources to assist Faculty, and potential funding sources; and Information about working with the WSU Foundation on finding funding. Office of Research Health Professions Visit (2022-05-02) Handout_FY21 for Health Professions Handout_Health Professions Funding for Research 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©