COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Comparative Pathology Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving About Us Research Resources Avian & Wildlife Laboratory Acute Phase Protein Laboratory Giving Seeking Patient Care? Home Comparative Pathology Comparative Pathology Welcome! Founded more than 35 years ago, the Division of Comparative Pathology hosts the core veterinary pathology services for the University of Miami and the internationally recognized Avian & Wildlife and Acute Phase Protein laboratories. We strive for excellence in all our missions. Carolyn Cray, Ph.D. Director, Division of Comparative Pathology About Us Latest Laboratory News Our commitment to the specialized veterinary clinical pathology service is evident in our numerous presentations and publications. Find out what we have been up to lately. View Our Latest News Our Clients are Our Partners We have 35 years of service to the veterinary community. Our collaborations with our clients have furthered the field of avian, exotic, and wildlife medicine. About Us Avian & Wildlife Laboratory With over 25 years of experience, more than 140 publications, and excellence in personalized diagnostic testing, your patients' samples help move the fields of avian, exotic, and wildlife medicine forward. Learn More About Our Laboratory Acute Phase Protein Laboratory The first and only diagnostic laboratory specializing in acute phase protein testing and clinical research of non-traditional species in the United States. View Our One-of-a-Kind Laboratory Pathology Research Resources Laboratory Over 35 years of experience as a core laboratory providing excellence in veterinary pathology and histology services for university researchers and the biotechnology community. View Our Core Laboratories Webinar Join us for interactive and informative presentations of veterinary clinical pathology of avian, exotic, and wildlife species as well as special focus sessions on a myriad of topics of non-traditional species. Save My Spot facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved