Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 May 26, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Waiting for a COVID vaccine for children younger than age 5? So’s everyone. What we know so far The FDA is expected to review the use of COVID vaccines for children age 6 months to 5 years in mid-June. “This is great news,” says Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH, noting, per the American Academy of Pediatrics, there are over 100,000 new cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in children each week. And areas of high transmission throughout the United States. The FDA and CDC recently approved the use of a booster dose for children 5-11 years old. Says Stockwell: As in other age groups, this booster dose is recommended to help restore immunity and enhance protection against severe disease. Protecting your children and the people around them is important. “We aren’t trying to just prevent infection with these vaccines, although they do some of that too, we are trying to prevent serious consequences of getting infected,” says Stockwell. Children of eligible ages still need to be vaccinated to protect them against the most negative outcomes of COVID, like hospitalizations and MISC, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. (MISC is a condition in which many different body parts can be affected, including the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain and GI system). What to do while you wait for the vaccine for kids under 5 Vaccinate people in your family who are eligible. Follow CDC recommendations for isolation and quarantine, including getting tested if you or your children are exposed to COVID-19 or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you are in areas with high community transmission, follow CDC recommendations: Regardless of your vaccination status, wear a well-fitting mask indoors in public, including in K-12 schools. If you are in a moderate transmission area, maintain improved ventilation in indoor spaces when possible. References Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH, is chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and associate professor of pediatrics at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, and associate professor of population and family health at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health. Her research, which concentrates on underserved children and adolescents, focuses on translational interventions to improve vaccinations with an emphasis on health technology and health literacy. She is the medical director of the New York-Presbyterian Immunization Registry (EzVac) and co-director of the Columbia University Primary Care Clinician Research Fellowship in Community Health. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top