Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Overview Baylor>About Baylor>Facts & Figures>Overview Overview Baylor University in Waco, Texas, is a private Christian university and a nationally ranked research institution. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating university in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and 90 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Where We Are In Waco, Texas Metro area population greater than 245,000 Approximately 1,000-acre campus located on the Brazos River Who We Are Fall 2021 Enrollment 4,271 new freshmen in the fall of 2021 38.7% percent of entering freshmen were in the top 10 percent of their high school graduating class. Mean SAT score of 1258 and mean ACT score of 27.9. 37.6% percent of the freshman class are minority students. 20,626 total enrollment (15,191 undergraduate and 5,435 graduate/professional students) 55% percent of students originate from Texas, and Baylor students come from all 50 states and 100 foreign countries. Academics 75.87% of students find jobs or start graduate school within 180 days of graduation. 126 undergraduate degree programs 80 master's programs 47 doctoral programs Education Specialist program Master of Laws program Baylor students interact with outstanding full-time faculty from their first days on campus. The student to faculty ratio is 16 to 1. The average undergraduate class size is 28. More than 100,000 Baylor alumni reside in Texas. On December 16, 2021, Baylor’s long-pursued goal of R1 recognition became a reality, earning the designation as a doctoral institution with “very high research activity” by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. Baylor awarded the first law diplomas and established the first law school in Texas. Baylor Law graduates continue to record the highest bar passage rate in the state, and in 2018, Baylor Law ranked #1 among ABA-approved schools in the U.S. in first-time pass rate. The Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative, opened in 2013, supports research and development and takes innovative ideas from concept to market. The Princeton Review ranks Baylor's Entrepreneurship program 5th Best in the country with high marks for the number of start-ups launched by grads in the program. List of Academic Units Campus Life Experience 330 clubs and organizations, including 40 national and local sororities and fraternities Baylor is among the 10 percent of U.S. universities with a Phi Beta Kappa chapter. Baylor students, faculty and staff annually volunteer more than 150,000 hours of community service locally. Home of the first campus chapter of Habitat for Humanity 39 percent of students live on campus in 12 residence halls. Athletics NCAA Division I, Big 12 Conference 19 varsity sports Men's Basketball 2021 NCAA national champions Women's basketball 2005, 2012, and 2019 NCAA national champions Men's tennis 2004 NCAA national champions Four Olympic gold medalists with 10 gold medals won Baylor has finished either first or second among Big 12 institutions in Graduation Success Rate score 13 times in the last 15 years. Baylor has won a combined 88 Big 12 Conference championships (49 regular season, 39 tournament) in the league's 25-year history. Our History Baylor leaders were instrumental in establishing the University of Texas in 1882 and Texas Tech University in 1923. Baylor founder Judge R.E.B. Baylor helped prepare the original constitution for the State of Texas in July 1845. The Value of the Tuition Equalization Grant (TEG) Program Established in 1972, the TEG program helps lower income and first-generation students in Texas afford higher education at private universities like Baylor. The average family income of TEG recipients is about $47,188. Students with the greatest needs may receive up to about $5,000 per year. These grants helped make college more affordable for more than 27,000 students statewide. Of these, 2,541 are currently pursuing degrees at Baylor. The TEG is a boon to Texas taxpayers. Students attending a state institution are supported by an average of $6,728 in state funds, regardless of financial need. TEG recipients saved the state about 48 percent of this appropriation. Multiplying the more than $3,000 in cost savings by the thousands of TEG-supported students results in an estimated $92.2 million cost benefit to the state while also easing growth pains at some of the state's overcrowded campuses. State officials have acknowledged Texas cannot achieve the goal of 60x30TX—which calls for 60 percent of Texans aged 25-34 to hold a certificate or degree by 2030—without the assistance of private institutions. The Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board has recommended a modest increase in TEG funds. This would serve an additional 760 TEG recipients. Information provided by studies from the Independent Colleges and Universities of Texas (ICUT) This site is updated semiannually (usually in December and July) using data compiled from several sources, including but not limited to Institutional Research, Annual Reports, Student Life and Athletics. Read more Quick Facts at Institutional Research Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories