Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Residence Life & Student Housing (RLSH) About Apply for Housing Apply for Housing SMU Housing Portal Rate and Fees Living On Campus Living On Campus Residential Commons Upper-Division Housing Apartments Policies Get Involved Get Involved Dallas Community Departments Faculty Graduate Students Staff Undergraduate Students Make A Request ☰ Your Place to Live. Residence Life & Student Housing fosters the foundational SMU experience where every student belongs, learns, and connects through their residential community. We make campus home. Experience it for yourself. Mustang Move-In May-term and summer housing Join us for a program or event Apply for Housing Housing Portal Submit a Work Order Contact Us Find your place to belong. Residential Commons SMU’s Residential Commons are designed to integrate the academic, residential and social experience and create a sense of belonging. A student’s Commons is their home base and each Commons is a microcosm of SMU. Explore the 11 Commons Upper Division Housing Upper-division students may elect to stay in their Residential Commons or move to a variety of Upper Division options which facilitate self-discovery for residents with independent learning opportunities, including SMU managed fraternity housing. Check out UDH Service House The SMU Service House (SMUSH) is a residence hall for 28 students dedicated to service and social change. This community provides upperclassmen with the ideal opportunity to share their passion for helping others. Search SMUSH SMU Apartments SMU owns and manages four apartment buildings that are located next to campus. These apartments offer students the privacy of independent living with the convivence of campus location. And at multiple price points, there is a unit in everyone's budget! Learn More News and announcements More news Important housing dates See all important dates Connect with us: Hours: Mon - Fri, 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.; excluding University holidays Phone Number: 214.768.2407 Fax Number: 214.768.4005 Physical Address: Boaz Commons 3200 Binkley Ave Dallas, TX 75205 Entrance off of Bishop Avenue Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750215 Dallas, TX 75275 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share