COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy photo Wichita State University student Maria Romero Rodriguez participated in the Widener Global Leaders Program. For the program's service project, she and others organized a food/hygiene drive for the Shocker Support Locker. May 03, 2022Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesstudentsW. Frank Barton School of BusinessGraduate ProfilesElliott School of CommunicationTalent Pipeline Meet a Shocker: Maria Romero Rodriguez By Paul Suellentrop Maria Romero Rodriguez came to Wichita State University from Madrid, Spain to study and compete in the pentathlon and heptathlon for the track and field team. She will graduate in May and compete at Cessna Stadium in the American Athletic Conference Outdoor Championships with her family in attendance. Maria is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Hometown Madrid, Spain Degree I am majoring in marketing with minors in communication and management. What made you want to attend Wichita State? As soon as I graduated from high school, I was ready to start a new chapter in my life and I decided to come to the United States to continue my academic and athletic career. I was looking for a university where I could study what I wanted and compete in track and field. I didn’t know about WSU until Paula Garcia contacted me. Paula was running track at Wichita State while I was looking for universities to attend in the US. Coincidentally, she is from the same area in Spain as me. She told me that the coaches at WSU wanted to recruit international athletes and asked if I was interested. I told Paula I was very interested, and I started communicating with the coaches. It went great. Furthermore, there was another Spanish athlete on the team, Claudia Rojo. After all the good things that Paula and Claudia had to say about WSU and the track and field team, I decided to come to WSU. I also did some research first, but listening to how happy they were at WSU was very calming and felt very safe, especially for my parents. I’m very thankful I picked WSU because it’s been the best experience of my life. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I’m looking forward to my graduation very much because I think I’ve worked very hard in the last five years to get here. I’m also very excited because Wichita State is hosting the AAC Championships the same weekend as graduation and my family is coming. They will get to watch me compete after many years and attend the commencement ceremony. I will get to celebrate my graduation with the people I love the most. What was been your biggest challenge as a student, and how did you overcome it? My biggest challenge when I first got here was the language barrier. I thought I knew English before I came to the US, but I still had a hard time understanding and speaking English. I was also very shy, so it took me a long time to feel confident - although I don’t have that problem anymore. Currently, my biggest challenge is finding a balance between academics, work, track and field, and my personal life. I’ve been struggling to find time to relax in the last couple years, but that is something I’m working on. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita State? This year, I was part of the Widener Global Leaders Program, which I am also graduating from this May. Thanks to this program, I learned about leadership through different concepts in business, communication, and music. It’s been the most hands-on experience I’ve ever participated in at WSU. My favorite part was to do a service project, where the other participants and I had to organize a food/hygiene drive for the Shocker Support Locker. We finished this project this spring and we collected more than 1,000 items. I’m very happy about how it turned out. What are your plans after graduation? I’ll be continuing with my career at WSU. I got accepted into the Master of Arts in communication at WSU and I’ll be a graduate teaching associate for the Elliott School of Communication, which I’m very excited about. I’ll be also taking my sixth and final year of track. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? The pandemic created a lot of uncertainty in my life. First, the track and field season was cancelled. It was very sad because we had trained hard for months to get ready for the season which never happened. But it was for our own safety, so I believe it was the right choice. I then got stuck in the U.S. over the summer, because it wasn’t safe to go back home. This was devastating because Spain initiated a 99-day quarantine which only allowed people to leave their homes to buy groceries. It was very hard to watch. That summer, I remembered that WSU offered different resources to international students such as financial aid and mental health treatment. The athletics department supported me, especially, by helping me get medical insurance for the summer and more. All the help I received from WSU was appreciated when all international students were going through a tough time. The pandemic wasn’t easy for anyone. It made me appreciate and value the little things more, such as in-person classes, hanging out with friends, and traveling. I’m just very glad that life is almost feeling like normal again. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? My advice to Wichita State students would be to enjoy every day of their college experience and make the most of it. Take advantage of all the resources that WSU offers, such as events, organizations, and networking. Your college years will be the best years of your life, and believe me when I say that they will fly by. W. Frank Barton School of Business The W. Frank Barton School of Business is home to some of the best programs, brightest minds and biggest opportunities in Kansas. From the largest selection of AACSB-accredited programs in the state to the limitless opportunities for applied learning in Kansas' business hub, Barton School students have everything they need for career success. Learn more Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©