Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Us Mission History Administration Student Resources Student Ensemble Auditions Faculty Resources Contact Us Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music About Us Welcome to the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Internationally recognized for artistic and academic excellence, the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music at the University of Memphis is a comprehensive music school that offers a full complement of undergraduate and graduate degrees in a unique convergence of contemporary and traditional programs. Our music school has attracted an international student body and faculty whose extraordinary impact on the cultural life of the University of Memphis, the greater Memphis community, and the Mid-South region is unmistakable. Located in a city with rich music history, we play an important role within the vibrant Memphis music community where collaborations, innovations, and entrepreneurship thrives. Our unique partnership with the Memphis Symphony Orchestra is a historic collaboration to train tomorrow’s musicians and we provide regular performance opportunities with organizations like Opera Memphis and the Memphis Chamber Music Society. The School is scheduled to open a brand new, state-of-the-art facility, the Scheidt Family Music Center, in spring 2022. In a city teeming with performance venues, we add to the wonderful sound by presenting more concerts and events than any music organization in the region. With roots dating back more than one hundred years, our supportive faculty, staff, and community partners emphasize a student-centered purpose. I personally invite you to discover the diversity, creativity, and scholarship of the Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music. I look forward to meeting you in person. Dr. Kevin Sanders, Director Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music Start Your Me+Memphis Journey Today Students who want to do college to the fullest, do so as UofM Tigers. The entire city of Memphis becomes your classroom, your stage and there is authenticity to the experiences you discover. Schedule a Visit > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/14/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.