Skip to content Apply Visit Info Give open searchsubmit Menu openAbout SDSU History & Mission Leadership Strategic Plan Diversity Land Acknowledgement Contact Us openNews & Events All News Calendar Social Media openAcademics Programs Academic Support Academic Calendars Study Abroad SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Global Campus SDSU Library Canvas openAdmissions & Aid First-Year Students Transfer Students Graduate Students International Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Counselors Cost of Attendance Financial Aid & Scholarships openLife at SDSU Housing Dining Student Union Clubs & Organizations Performance Groups Aztec Recreation Center Health & Well-being Support & Services Athletics openResearch & Innovation Centers & Institutes Core Facilities Student Research Entrepreneurship Sustainability Research Foundation Information for Researchers Alumni Give openI am a Future Student Current Student Newly Admitted Student Parent/Guardian Counselor Faculty / Staff Member openColleges Arts and Letters Fowler College of Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Services SDSU Library Professional Studies and Fine Arts Sciences Weber Honors College openOther Locations SDSU Georgia SDSU Global Campus SDSU Imperial Valley SDSU Mission Valley Apply Visit Info Give youtube twitter facebook instagram In this Section SDSU About About SDSU Facts, Mission and History Leadership Strategic Plan Diversity Land Acknowledgement Contact Us About SDSU Since its founding in 1897, the university has grown to become a leading public research university, and a federally-designated Hispanic-serving Institution. Each year, SDSU provides more than 36,000 students with the opportunity to participate in an academic curriculum distinguished by direct contact with faculty and an international emphasis that prepares them for a global future. HISTORY, MISSION & LEADERSHIP History & Mission Leadership SDSU is the oldest higher education institution in San Diego, uniquely situated only 30 minutes north of the U.S.-Mexico border on Kumeyaay land. Our community is fully committed to excellent teaching, meaningful research and service to our regional community and others we serve throughout the state, across the nation and internally. We have an incredible past, and a powerful future ahead of us, marked by: A five-year strategic plan, “We Rise We Defy: Transcending Borders, Transforming Lives,” launched in 2020. The development of SDSU Mission Valley, a mixed-use, medium-density development that is transit-oriented and that will expand the university’s educational, research, entrepreneurial, and technology transfer programs. The expansion of the border-connected SDSU Imperial Valley, which has been infused with new investments to introduce new programs and student services. The growth of SDSU Global Campus, which is growing educational access to adult learners through the creation of new degree programs. Our campus diversity being our pride. SDSU is recognized for its commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. About 54 percent of students are of color, the university recognized for our military and veteran program and ranked as a top college for LGBTQ students. For generations, SDSU has overcome hurdles and defied expectations, forging ahead to deliver academic excellence, student success and groundbreaking research. We will continue to do so as we build SDSU’s new chapter of inclusive opportunity for more students, reimagining a university designed to thrive for many years to come, and impacting San Diego, our border region, and the world as never before. SPOTLIGHTLAND ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SDSU formally recognizes Native and Indigenous peoples as traditional stewards of the land on which our university resides, and respects the enduring relationship that exists between Indigenous peoples and their ancestral territories. At San Diego State University, we recognize the land as Kumeyaay. Connect With Us No matter how you reach us, we cannot wait to have you here and to support you. Visit Maps Parking and Directions Support Services Welcome to SDSU ApplyVisitGet Info youtube twitter facebook instagram 619-594-5200 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, CA 92182 Maps Parking Campus Directory Employment Media Relations Canvas General Contact Network Status Strategic Plan Newsletter Accessibility Document Readers Digital Privacy Statement Campus Safety Reports Feedback © 2022 San Diego State UniversityAll Rights ReservedLast Updated back to top Last Updated 3/23/22