× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Research Data Program Research Data Program Bookmark This Research Data Program /services/research-data-program Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. 67 34941 Research Data Program /services/research-data-program Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. 67 34941 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Service Overview Baker Library's expert data specialists have deep experience with business, economic and social science data and databases, and we can help you with everything from finding and vetting sources, to analyzing your data, to archiving and storage. We will make sure to get you the right data, add value to the data, and save you time. Do you need to: Find data? We can help you find the best source for your needs, whether it is something freely available, available at Harvard, needs to be purchased, or needs to be created from scratch. License data? We will vet the vendor for reliability and negotiate the appropriate contract and best price for you. We will help you unpack the data when it arrives and put it into the optimum format for your project. Gather/Create data? Our experts know the ins and outs of the various licensed and freely available business and economic databases. We can download or scrape data for you, merge it, clean it, and prepare it for your analysis. Analyze your data? We can help you with pilot studies, methodological and statistical consultations, and provide services for analyzing and visualizing your data. Safeguard your data long-term? Wondering what to do with your data at the end of a research project? Baker Library can support you to manage your data so that it stays available and re-usable. Contact Baker Research Services (BRS) Katherine McNeill, Research Data Program Manager and Collections Librarian kmcneill@hbs.edu 617-495-5310 Resources Related Service Rollups Services for Faculty & Staff Related Databases Dataverse Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.