Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Resources on Campus Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Resources on Campus Below is a list of on-campus resources Brown offers for students (undergraduate and graduate), facutly and staff. Please always feel free to reach out to a Chaplain for assistance navigating them. Additiction & Recovery - Brown University, local & national resources for substance use education, support and treatment including The Dean for Recovery and Substance Free Students. Administrator on Call - a mechanism for students to seek assistance in emergency situations outside of business hours, available 24/7, 365 days a year. To reach the AOC, call (401) 863-3322 and ask to speak to the Administrator on Call. Bear Market Food Exchange - Located outside of our offices on the 4th Floor of Page-Robinson building (across from Room 411). This small food pantry shelf is stocked by the OCRL, and students, faculty & staff who donate items. The Bear Makret Pantry is open to any and all who are in need of something to eat. Re-stocking is based on use. If you would like to donate, you can drop off your donation in a bag or box, or simply add food to our shelves Brown Identity Centers - The Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity offers a comprehensive list of campus resources for members of the Brown community invested in issues and questions of diversity and inclusion in the areas of teaching, learning and campus life. BWell Health Promotion - Available virtually. Resources, text/chat info, peer health groups, sexual health, nutrition, stress reduction, and relaxation. BWell supports the development of skills for lifelong, holistic health and wellbeing for all Brown students by offering interventions that are both community- and evidence-informed, and rooted in social justice to empower growth and the ability to thrive, prevent health disparities, and respond to emergent needs. Campus Life Resources - Provide many of the resources outside of the formal classroom that support and empower all students as they shape their own individual and collective intellectual and social journeys at Brown. The College - Available virtually & in-person for academic advising, support, resources, and opportunities. Students with conflicts due to religious observence | UFUNDS | E-Gap Funds are available to help income-eligible students with navigating unique circumstances related to life, work, academics, curricular and co-curricular opportunities and to cover related financial gaps. If you’re having trouble managing your money, financial advising is available through The College. Visit to schedule a time to meet with a member of the advising team. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) - available to all students virtually, regardless of location including 24/7 phone consult for students (401-863-3476). Located at 450 Brook Street. Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) - (401) 863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Health Services - In-Person, Telehealth & 24/7 Nurse Advice, 401-863-3953. Located at 450 Brook Street. Healthy Brown - Community response to COVID-19. Home for infromation regadring campus guidelines, testing, vaccination information. Locations & hours for Mask & Test Kit Pick-Up Sites. Office of International Programs - Information about opportunities, porgrams and how to navigate the process of studying abroad with Brown. SHARE Advocates (Sexual Harassment & Assault Resources & Education) - Available in-person & virtually. Confidential resources that provide support to any student from any part of the University (undergraduate, graduate, and medical students) affected by issues or experiences related to: Sexual Assault, Sexual and/or Gender-based Harassment, Domestic/Dating Violence, Relational Abuse, Stalking. Services include upport for a survivor or the friends of a survivor, help filing a complaint (if that is the student's choice), and help navigating resources at Brown and in the community. Sexual Assault Response Line - A 24-hour, confidential telephone line for crisis response in an incident of sexual or interpersonal violence. 401-863-6000 Sexual Misconduct and Title IX - (401) 863-2386This website provides updated information and support resources for the Brown University community around issues of sexual misconduct and Title IX. Student Accessibility Services (SAS) - Available in-person & virtually to coordinate and facilitate services for students (including graduate students) and visitors with medical, physical, psychological, and learning disabilities. Page-Robinson, 5th Floor. Student Support Services (SSS) - Available in-person & virtually to assist students with a wide range of issues and concerns. Deans provide 24-hour crisis services for undergraduate, graduate, and medical students with personal or family emergencies, and are available by appointment to consult with individual students about their personal questions/concerns, thus allowing students to succeed and thrive in their academic pursuits. Learn more about Helping a Student in Distress. University Ombuds - The Ombuds Office supports faculty, staff, graduate students, medical students, and postdoctoral scholars who face issues or conflicts arising from or affecting their work, life, or study at Brown. *Please note that this list is comprehensive, but not exaustive of all of the resources available at Brown. Please use the provided links above for additional support and information. If you need assistance, or to be pointed in the right direction, you are welcome to give us a call or email our office. Home About News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Bear Market Food Exchange Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory