Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Federal Pell Grant The Federal Pell Grant Program provides need-based grants to low-income undergraduates and certain post-baccalaureate students (Credential Students) to promote access to post-secondary education. Th program is funded by the U.S. Department of Education. Students may not receive the Federal Pell Grant funds from more than one school at a time. Eligibility Requirement Complete a FAFSA application U.S. Citizens or Eligible Non-Citizens Undergraduates Have not earned a bachelor's or professional degree You are not eligible to receive a Federal Pell Grant if you are incarcerated Award Amounts Depends On: the student's expected family contributions (EFC) the cost of attendance the student's enrollment status (full-time or part-time) whether the student attends for a full academic year or less Pell Grant Min and Max Awarded Aid Year Maximum Pell Award Minimum Pell Award 2021-2022 $6,495 $672 Important Note: Your award is dependent on your Expected Family Contributions (EFC), you can obtain that information on your FAFSA application. The higher your EFC the less Pell award you will received and more units of enrolled is required for disbursement. Award Limits Students are limited to a total of six full-time (600%) of Pell Grant eligibility, also known as the Lifetime Eligibility Used (LEU). The calculation of this total includes previous semesters at CSUF, as well as any attendance at any other institutions (including community colleges) where a Pell Grant was paid. Visit the Federal Student Aid to learn more and to determine the percentage of Pell Grant funding you have received. --Federal Student Aid DISBURSEMENT FOR FEDERAL PELL GRANT Enrollment Status Number of Units Enrolled Percentage of Disbursed Amount Full-Time 12 or more units 100% Three-Quarter-Time 9-11 units 75%* Half-Time 6-8 units 50%* Less-Than-Half-Time 1-5 units 25%* *In some instances a student enrolled in less than 12 units may lose eligibility for his/her Pell Grant, as the EFC's in the higher end of the Pell Grant range does not allow for less than full-time enrollment. Pell Grant recipients who change enrollment status - adding or dropping courses - will have their eligibility recalculated based on their enrollment status as of the University's census date for each semester, typically the beginning of the fourth week of class. Likewise, Pell Grant fund will be recalculated for students who drop classes and the revised Pell Grant will be based on "census" enrollment status. In some instances, this recalculation may results in repayment of fund already disbursed as a result of the reduction in units following the disbursement of Pell Grant funds. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.