Skip Navigation Physician Assistant Program OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Skip Side Navigation Home About the School of Community Medicine Future Students Current Students Physician Assistant Program Admissions Curriculum Proposed Curriculum 2023 Faculty/Staff Finances Program Success in Meeting Goals Student Clinics Contact the PA Program Research Departments and Residency Programs Faculty Affairs Helpful Resources Contact Us Give Now OU-Tulsa OU HSC OU Physicians HIPAA Tulsa / OU-TU School of Community Medicine / Physician Assistant Program Physician Assistant Program The OU-TU School of Community Medicine physician assistant program is proud to offer an outstanding and unique educational experience for future physician assistants who are committed to primary care and the underserved in Oklahoma. The program represents a joint effort between the University of Oklahoma and The University of Tulsa to provide one of the strongest primary care PA programs in the country. During the first semester of our 30-month program, students will collaborate in an interdisciplinary environment with other students and faculty at the week-long Summer Institute. The Summer Institute focuses on underserved care and available resources throughout the Tulsa community. PA students also attend the Bedlam evening clinic throughout their first year. This student-run free clinic provides much needed care to uninsured patients from northeast Oklahoma. These distinct opportunities further supplement the curriculum covered in Public Health, Professional Issues in Medicine and Health, and the Underserved module in Clinical Medicine. During the second year, students attend Student Academy which is comprised of monthly interdisciplinary seminars over chronic disease management with emphasis on evidence-based treatment algorithms and hands-on clinical skill development. Students then integrate this learning into their twice-monthly longitudinal clinic experience at OU Physicians Family Medicine Clinic. This Physician Assistant Longitudinal (PAL) student clinic allows students to manage their own panel of patients, providing a continuous care experience for chronic disease management. Thank you for your interest in the OU-TU School of Community Medicine Physician Assistant program. We invite you to learn more about the unique aspects of our program on this website. Like us on Facebook: OU-Tulsa Physician Assistant Program. Mission & Goals Mission Statement The mission of the physician assistant program at the OU-TU School of Community Medicine is to train physician assistants to provide quality healthcare to the citizens of Oklahoma with an emphasis on serving diverse and underserved communities. Program Goals The goals of the OU-TU School of Community Medicine PA program are: 1. To provide a quality education that enables students to become competent, caring healthcare providers. We seek to educate our students in the basic medical sciences as well as the clinical and behavioral sciences in order to prepare them for the practice of medicine both today and in the future. While training physician assistants to go into areas of primary care medicine will be our fundamental focus, we are also cognizant that PAs are increasingly serving patients in both the surgical and specialty areas of medicine. How are we doing? The program has graduated 190 graduates into the workforce from our eight classes in 2010-2017. All program graduates have passed the PANCE, with a first-time pass rate for the classes of 2012-2017 at 100%. Eighty percent of the graduates are practicing clinically in the state of Oklahoma. In addition, over 40% of the graduates are in a primary care setting and nearly 20% working in an underserved setting. 2. To expose students to the practice of primary care medicine in a variety of underserved locations during their didactic and clinical training. The OU-TU School of Community Medicine PA program desires that a significant portion of their graduates will choose to work in these communities following graduation. How are we doing? Our curriculum supports our mission and goals by educating students about Oklahoma health statistics and community resources in Tulsa during the first-year Public Health course and at the Summer Institute. In addition, students attend the Bedlam-Evening free medical clinic throughout the length of the program. During the clinical phase, PA students care for their own panel of uninsured patients twice monthly in the Physician Assistant Longitudinal (PAL) clinic at OU Physicians Family Medicine Clinic. Clinical rotations during the second year include 22 weeks of primary care exposure, a four-week underserved medicine rotation, and a two week Community Impact experience, which includes exposure to various agencies such as the Tulsa Day Center for the Homeless and The Little Light House. Our graduates have taken positions with the underserved that include rural medicine, federally qualified health centers, Indian health, and Oklahoma correctional facilities. 3. To encourage the students, graduates, and faculty to participate in service and leadership roles within the University, the profession, and the broader community. With the strong support of the college and university administration, the OU-TU School of Community Medicine PA program is committed to fostering the growth and development of each individual student and faculty member to his/her greatest potential. How are we doing? OU-TU School of Community Medicine PA program faculty fulfill service and leadership roles at the national level and state level, including an ARC-PA Commissioner, committee membership in the Oklahoma Medical Board and NCCPA, and board positions in the Oklahoma Academy of Physician Assistants. Several graduates from the inaugural class have served as faculty for the program and many more graduates donate their time to be guest instructors. Accreditation The Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) has granted Accreditation-Continued status to the University of Oklahoma School of Community Medicine Physician Assistant Program sponsored by the University of Oklahoma. Accreditation-Continued is an accreditation status granted when a currently accredited program is in compliance with the ARC-PA Standards. Accreditation remains in effect until the program closes or withdraws from the accreditation process or until accreditation is withdrawn for failure to comply with the Standards. The approximate date for the next validation review of the program by the ARC-PA will be March 2024. The review date is contingent upon continued compliance with the Accreditation Standards and ARC-PA policy. The program’s accreditation history can be viewed on the ARC-PA website here. The University of Oklahoma is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission/A Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (HLC/NCA), 30 North LaSalle St., Suite 2400, Chicago, IL 60602; 312/263-0456. Graduate Performance on Certification Exam Congratulations to our past graduates on their oustanding performance on their certification exam. Past pass rates may be found here. OU-TU School of Community Medicine Information Sessions The OU-TU School of Community Medicine hosts information sessions several times a year for students interested in pursuing a MD or PA degree. Each two-hour session consists of a presentation about the OU-TU School of Community Medicine, the details about each program and the necessary prerequisites. After the presentation, a question and answer session with current medical and physician assistant student occurs. Itinerary 4pm - 5pm: Information about the OU-TU School of Community Medicine PA Program Detail and Prerequisites MD Program Detail and Prerequisites 5pm - 6pm: Introduction of current MD and PA Students Q & A with current MD and PA Students Information Session Registration Information Sessions are conducted every month from 4:00pm-6:00pm in the OU-Tulsa Learning Center on the Schusterman Center campus at 41st and Yale. For upcoming dates and to RSVP, please click on the link below. Follow this link to register. School of Community Medicine OU - Tulsa Schusterman Center 4502 E. 41st Street Tulsa, OK 74135 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! SCM Social Media facebook twitter youtube more Updated 4/28/2022 by School of Community Medicine: pappas@ou.edu