Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Admissions The first step to joining the SIPA community is to apply to one of our degree programs. Prepare for the rigors of studying at the world's foremost global public policy school by learning more about what the Admissions Committee values in candidates, the application process, what our current students are like, and more. You are here Home The first step to joining the SIPA community is to apply to one of our degree programs. Prepare for the rigors of studying at the world's foremost global public policy school by learning more about what the Admissions Committee values in candidates, the application process, what our current students are like, and more. Test: New York City What We Look For We pride ourselves on our amazing community of scholars and practitioners from all over the world. SIPA students hail from every region, discipline, sector, and background, but are united by demonstrated academic excellence and professional focus. Here's what our Admissions Committee looks for in general, along with a few explicit requirements. Test: Arial How to Apply Applications for the upcoming calendar year will be available in late Summer. Each degree program has its own application deadlines and requirements, please review the programs' information carefully prior to applying. There is no separate application deadline for international students interested in applying to our programs. SIPA_Students_Walking2_2019rev.jpg Financial Aid For over 70 years, Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs has been educating professionals who work in public, private and nonprofit organizations to make a difference in the world. The SIPA Financial Aid Office is dedicated to helping its students explore all available means to finance their education. sipa-admittedstudentsday2017-asd2017-flags.jpg Accept Your Offer Learn more about when admissions decisions are released, how to submit your enrollment deposit, what it means to be on the waitlist, and how the deferral process works. SIPA_building_welcome_video.jpg Connect with SIPA SIPA is located on Columbia University's campus in Morningside Heights, a lively Manhattan neighborhood that bridges the Upper West Side and Harlem. Our home in the International Affairs Building is an energetic hub with some of the best views on campus. OSAphotocontest-SIPAadmissions-(38).jpg Admissions FAQs To learn more about the admissions process, you are encouraged to review our Frequently Asked Questions. ASD2016-studentpanel-admittedstudentsday2016.jpg Meet a Current Student Learn more about SIPA from those who know it best—our Seeples! Apply Now Connect with SIPA Attend an Information Session Request Information Meet a Current Student Application Status Subscribe to the Admissions Blog Download Brochure Connect with Admissions Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Share This SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - Tina Fordham '99 Video of SIPA Alumni: Stories of Impact - Tina Fordham &amp;#039;99 Alumni Spotlight Rather than trying to blend in, I would say exploit that, because that's what you'll be remembered by. Tina Fordham MIA 99 Managing Director and Chief Global Political Analyst Citi Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216