Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Human Resources Human Resources Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Health & Well-being Menu Main Nav Health & Well-being How can we help you? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Harvard Pilgrim Portal Programs and Services Overview Cancer and Chronic Illness Elder Caregiving Faculty/Staff Assistance Program Family Caregiving Meditation & Mindfulness Smoking Cessation Vision Van Weight Watchers Weekly Wellness Newsletter Savory Living Active Living Events How can we help you? Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Human Resources Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Events Home Events Signature Events Walk Across Campus Lunch & Learn Seminars Charitable Walks/Runs Go Move Walking Challenge Other Health Events edHealth Walking Challenge Walk Across Campus The Spring edition of HEALTHY YOU's Walk Across Campus (WAC) will run from Friday, April 1st through Tuesday, May 31st. 1. Join a Spring WAC team on the Harvard Pilgrim BC Wellness portal. If you did not set up a Wellness account on the portal last semester, you will need to do so. You can access instructions by clicking on How to Create a Wellness Account If you need assistance, contact Harvard Pilgrim's Living Well Services Monday - Friday, 9 am-5 pm, at 1-877-594-7183 or email LivingWellSupport LivingWellSupport@point32health.org You do NOT need to be a Harvard Pilgrim member to set up an account and join a team. If you already have a Harvard Pilgrim Wellness account from last semester, you still need to log in to your account and select your team for the spring Walk. 2. Once you register for a team, connect the Fitbit you received in the Fall, OR if you are new to the WAC, email Anne.Goroshko@point32health.org and include: your Eagle ID, team name, include that you are new to the WAC and are requesting a Fitbit. We have Fitbit Inspire HR's that you can pick up at 129 Lake Street. Any technical related questions regarding Fitbits received in the fall must be directed to Fitbit as BC can NOT address warranty/ losses/ order inquiries etc. Fitbit is quite helpful addressing issues and replacements within the warranty. Contact Fitbit support to access their live chat, phone info, and direct messaging. 3. Upon receipt of your Fitbit, follow the set-up directions that come with the unit. You will go to www.Fitbit.com/setup and click on the Download for Windows App. 4. Link your new Fitbit to your WAC team by following directions here: How to Connect a Wearable Device focusing on Fitbit (If this is your first Fitbit) How to Remove your old Fitbit and connect your new Fitbit (If this is NOT your first Fitbit, as you must remove the prior unit from your account for steps to sync) 5. Lastly, we encourage you to take advantage of the Limeade mobile app if you have not yet. Download directions here. PLEASE NOTE: We welcome all returning participants and are seeking volunteers to be new Team Leaders. Leaders can assemble a new team or lead an existing team; motivate activities during the WAC; and regularly communicate with team members. **If you are willing to be a NEW TEAM LEADER of 5-20 participants, please email Anne.Goroshko@point32health.org with your name and Eagle ID prior to Wednesday March 23rd, to receive pertinent details. Thanks again to the sponsors of the Walk Across Campus: BC Athletics, Campus Recreation, Harvard Pilgrim, Auxiliary Services, and Human Resources. Overview Boston College’s Walk Across Campus (WAC) is among the most popular of many Healthy You sponsored activities. Over the last several years, the Walk Across Campus challenge has successfully promoted friendly competition while building solid camaraderie amongst peers throughout BC. The WAC has fostered a “community of walkers” year-round, and once the challenge begins the campus fills with scores of walkers getting their steps in whenever they can. The BC campus offers many areas to enjoy taking steps. For instance, when leaving from the 129 Lake Street building, two loops around Chandler Pond equals two miles, as does completing one loop around the reservoir when you leave from the front of the BC Recreation Center. Lunch & Learn Seminars All programs are a mix between Virtual and In Person events. Once you have signed up you will receive a calendar invitation with a zoom link to log on to the session, if applicable. Register Here Spring 2022 Events Aging Well Heidi Roth Wednesday, February 16th, 2022 12:00 - 1:00PM, Remote Learn how to eat healthier, live a longer life and look fabulous! Discover what foods boost your energy levels throughout your workday and your workouts. Instead of buying expensive anti-aging creams and lotions, eat those vitamin-rich foods that will help you age gracefully. Act As If Pam Garramone Thursday, March 17th, 2022 12:00 - 1:00PM, Walsh Room Victorian Philosopher William James, also known as the 'father of psychology' said, " If you want a quality, act as if you already have it." We know that our thoughts lead to decisions and our decisions lead to actions. If we can change our thoughts, we can change our life. AND in this fun, interactive presentation, you will learn how you can change your thoughts through physical behavior. Don't just think, do! Cooking Demonstration Heidi McIndoo Tuesday, April 12th, 2022 12:00 - 1:00PM, Walsh Room Follow step by step and learn a fresh, new, tasty spring dish. Recipe TBD Power of Positivity Sue Lunt Tuesday, May 10th, 2022 12:00 - 1:00PM, Walsh Room What happens when you discover how to view your cup as half full? Join this program to learn about the research on positivity. Positivity impacts our health, our co-workers, and overall success. The session also provides participants with an interactive exercise on creating a positive mind. The Power of Positivity Past Programming Walk Across Campus Closing Postponed Fall 2021 Events Return to Work Roadmap Rachel Shanshiry Thursday, September 23rd, 2021 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m., Zoom RTW Roadmap: Holding Down the Fort and Re-Building Routines Are you mourning the loss of the zoom mullet (business on top, PJs on bottom)? You are not alone. While pivoting to remote was a major challenge, many of us have grown accustomed to the conveniences of working from home. Returning to work may upset the routines you put into place for childcare, pet care, exercise, and leisure. What are we missing, what are we gaining, and how can we re-calibrate? Join us to find ways to reconfigure the important pieces of your life. Together we will restore balance, build hope for our new normal, and throw in a few laughs along the way! Pandemic Relief Heidi Roth Tuesday, October 19th, 2021 12:00 p.m. - 1 p.m., Zoom Post-pandemic Grief; Healing from Loss and Hardship Did the pandemic take someone or something important away from you? Do you find it difficult to move forward given the changes in your life? Loss of loved ones, long-haul covid symptoms, financial hardship, and other struggles have been a reality for many. If “getting back to normal” does not apply to you, then join this session to begin building a healthy new normal. Learn the essentials of self-care and compassion and how to navigate common experiences that accompany loss. Together we will explore ways to honor your loss, build hope, find peace, compartmentalize, and get support. Ways to Wellness Heidi Roth Wednesday, November 10th, 2021 12:00 p.m. - 1 p.m., Murray Room - Lunch will be provided What would you be willing to change in your life to feel amazing, and have increased energy, healthier digestion and overall better mood? We will share ways to achieve enhanced wellbeing from how we speak to our friends and family, to our daily thoughts, our work, sleep, food and home environment. Taking Care of Aging Parents Sue Lunt Wednesday, December 8th, 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m., Walsh - Lunch will be provided Program will help establish goals for their elderly loved ones and discuss the realities of reaching these goals. Topics include: The Situation: How Did You Get Here? The Balancing Act Elder Services Understanding and Coping with Dementia Case Management: Who Should be Involved with Elder Care Elder Medical Information Spring 2021 Events Resilience and Life Skills for a Healthier You: Rachel Shanshiry Thursday, January 14th, 2021 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Start 2021 off right by building a practice of self-care that will strengthen and sustain you throughout the year! Learn evidence-based relaxation and mindfulness skills that will shed stress and build joy. In this upbeat webinar, you will explore the psychology of resilience and leave with practical tools that are guaranteed to build your mental toughness. Leave with a handful of strategies that will foster optimism, gratitude, and hone your focus on opportunities for growth. Valentine’s Heart Health Cooking Demo: Heidi Roth Wednesday, February 10th, 2021 12:00 p.m. - 1 p.m. February is Heart Health Month! Join us for a fun cooking demonstration of various appetizers and even a mocktail! Recipes will include: Goat cheese and chorizo stuffed mushrooms Flourless chocolate cookies Parmesan walnut stuffed dates Pomegranate ginger sparkler or Strawberry passion no-jito Caring for the Caregiver: Catherine Collins Monday, March 8th, 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Though often overlooked, it is crucial for caregivers to also care for themselves. Join us to learn personal wellbeing strategies to incorporate while taking care of others. These will include specific hints related to caring for elders as well as nuances related to the current pandemic. Caregiver Self Care Resource List Change Old Unhealthy Habits into New Healthy Ones: Pam Garramone Tuesday, April 13th, 12:00 p.m. - 1:00 p.m. Feeling stressed? There's a habit for that. Feeling lethargic? There's a habit for that too. We all know how to feel healthier and happier but how many of us actually do these things? In this workshop, learn how to form healthy habits that last! Eldercare Finances and Legality: Ron Kearns Wednesday, May 5th, 1:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Caring for Elders is multifaceted and includes some potentially overwhelming financial and legal ramifications. Ron Kerns will discuss topics and help lessen some of the unknown, answer questions and ease your mind during this informative and helpful presentation. Senior Assist Employee Workshop Slides Prior to Spring 2021 Events Acupuncture for Common Uses and Chronic Pain Kathy Seltzer Thursday, February 6, 12 - 1:30 p.m. | Walsh Hall Conference Room Whether you have experience with the practice or not, join us for this opportunity to learn more about acupuncture. The needles that are used in acupuncture treatments are relatively pain free. In this session participants will observe how a trained skilled practitioner can stimulate the specific points on the body by inserting very thin needles into the skin. Discussion will include the benefits of this treatment and how it can be useful in alleviating everything from common conditions to chronic pain! Happier, even in Winter! Pam Garramone Thursday, February 13, 12 - 1:30 p.m. | Walsh Hall Conference Room How do you deal with disappointment? failure? Or a general feeling of blah? Do you bounce back or stay down? Are you sadder this time of year because of Seasonal Affective Disorder? How can you become more resilient? In this lunch and learn, acquire strategies to help you feel resilient, optimistic and productive even in difficult times. Make and Take: Toxic Free Cleaning Agents Wednesday, March 11, 12 - 1:30 p.m. | Walsh Hall Conference Room Learn to protect your family from harmful chemicals by making non-toxic household cleaners. These homemade cleansers cost pennies to make, get your house gleaming and best of all, they are made from natural ingredients and do not contain any potentially toxic chemicals. This interactive make and take demonstration provide participants everything they need to know and how to get started without being overwhelmed! Participants will make their own customized all-purpose cleaner and will be provided with recipes, tips, tricks and secrets to keep clean safe homes. Blending for Health: A Smoothie Demonstration Thursday, April 16, 12 - 1:30 p.m. | Walsh Hall Conference Room Blending and Juicing ... what is the best choice? Both blending and juicing your fruits and vegetables are hot topics right now. Are you wondering what combinations of fruits and vegetables work best? What should you avoid? How often should you have one of these drinks? What about fruit...can it cause you to gain weight? We will cover these topics and more. There will be a few yummy concoctions to taste and recipes for you to try at home. Make and Take: Creating Your Own Health & Beauty Items (Body Scrubs, Facial Masks, Hair Care, etc.) Friday, May 1, 12 - 1:30 p.m. | Murray Room Creating your own body care products can be very rewarding for a variety of reasons. These reasons can range from having control over what goes in them, to customizing according to your preferences, to reducing waste, saving money, along with reducing the use of chemicals, artificial colors and additives in your household. This session looks at the health benefits of making your own products and teaches participants the tips and tricks to creating a perfect customized product for them. If making your own personal care products is not for you, this program will help you identify the worst offending chemicals in your personal care products. Come to this interactive session and make your own customized personal body scrub. Parenting with Current Day Challenges: Rachel Shanshiry Thursday, September 24, 12 - 1:00 p.m. Session will include tips on helping children manage fear and uncertainty, identifying parents' and children's core needs, assessing a child's well-being, flexibility in parenting, parenting self-care and outlets for stress, quality versus quantity of family time, modeling hope and resilience for children, positive implications of the pandemic on personal growth and relationships for parents and their children (creating meaning and an empowering narrative). MBSR - Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction: Filippa Anzalone, Associate Dean for Library & Technology Services, Law School Friday, September 25, 2020 - Friday, December 4, 2020 Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction, known as MBSR, was conceptualized and created by Dr. Jon Kabat-Zinn at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in the 1970s. MBSR is an established and well-researched form of mindfulness meditation. The practice of MBSR helps to cultivate self-awareness. It also encourages practititioners to change habitual patterns, to respond instead of reacting to stress, and to generally improve relationships with others. The MBSR training is an 8-week long program. Each class is 2.5 hours (classes 1 and 8 may be longer) and there is an all-day, silent retreat (8 hours) between weeks 6 and 7. There is a mandatory 2.5-hour Orientation two weeks before the start of the MBSR program. The Orientation, the 8 classes, and the retreat will all be presented online on Zoom. Once you are accepted into the program, you will receive a Zoom link. Work Life Balance: Rachel Shanshiry Wednesday, October 14, 12 - 1:00 p.m. Feeling overwhelmed with unfinished tasks? Learn several simple techniques that allow you to conquer your avoidance behavior, easily organize your life, find more energy, and accomplish more than you could ever dream possible. What you resist, persists. Do it now and feel good about yourself! Senior Assist to Address Eldercare and Related Financial Topics: Rob Kearns Wednesday, November 4, 12 - 1:00 p.m. More details to come. Cooking for the Holidays Demo: Heidi Roth Tuesday, December 8, 12 - 1:00 p.m. Join this cooking demo to learn some easy, festive and healthy holiday appetizer and mocktail recipes. Charitable Walks/Runs Boston College's charitable walk campaign marches on this year as we continue to incorporate BC's mission of being "men and women for others" into our health and well-being programming. Join fellow BC employees in a walk for one of the following great causes! To join a team, please contact a Team Leader listed below. They will assist you with the registration process. All participants will receive a complimentary BC t-shirt, distributed by Team Leaders on the day of the walk. Please note that any registration fees and/or fundraising requirements are to be incurred by participants. We are still looking for Team Leaders for walks. If you are interested in being the Team Leader, please contact Sue Lawler or call 617-552-3336. Team Leaders function as the point person for their walk, under the team name "Boston College Healthy You team.” In addition to receiving a complimentary BC t-shirt, Team Leaders will also receive a BC baseball cap. While steps will only be counted towards the WAC competition from charitable walks that fall between October and November or April and May, all participants receive the benefit of getting exercise and walking for a good cause! Fall Semester 2021 Charitable Walks Walk to Defeat ALS - Boston Sunday, October 3, 2021 at 9 AM 125 William J. Day Blvd, Boston, MA 02127 5 to Thrive 5K Waltham Saturday, October 16, 2021 at 9 AM Waltham Family YMCA 725 Lexington St, Waltham, MA 02452 39th Annual Boston Firefighters Local 718 10K Memorial Road Race Sunday, October 17, 2021 at 9 AM Florian Hall 55 Hallet Street, Dorchester, MA 02124 16th Annual Welles Crowther Red Bandanna 5K Saturday, October 23, 2021 at 9 AM (or virtually, see site for details) Boston College 140 Commonwealth Ave, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society’s Light the Night Saturday, November 6, 2021 at 4 PM (or virtually, see site for details) Franklin Park Zoo 1 Franklin Park Road, Boston, MA 02121 DAV 5K Boston Saturday, November 6, 2021 at 9 AM DCR Fort Independence at Castle Island 2010 William J Day Blvd, Boston, MA 02127 Boston River Run Sunday, November 7, 2021 at 9 AM DCR Artesani Park 1255 Soldiers Field Road, Boston, MA 02135 If you would like to recommend a preferred charitable walk that you do not see here, please email all details of the walk to Sue Lawler for consideration. Walking Challenge AJCU Go Move Walking Challenge Calling all Boston College faculty and staff! Help your team win the 10th annual Go Move Challenge by recording your minutes of physical activity to determine which Jesuit institution is the most active. With the majority of our Jesuit universities and colleges participating this year, including the AJCU staff, every minute truly counts! New this year, for our 10th anniversary, you will be awarded a 10 day streak badge when you are physically active and track 10 days in a row! FYI - Last year we finished 4th in the overall field of 24 Jesuit Colleges and Universities! Can we top that this year? Let’s do it! You can participate individually or make up your own teams. HOW TO JOIN THE CHALLENGE Each year you must register to participate Register at www.GoMoveChallenge.org, (even if you participated last year) Click the LOG IN / REGISTER button on the top menu bar In the REGISTER box, enter your university email address and other required information, then click SUBMIT You will receive a confirmation email with your user email and password HOW TO LOG MINUTES Starting February 1, visit www.GoMoveChallenge.org Click the LOG IN / REGISTER button on the top menu bar In the LOG IN box, enter your email address and password In the “LOG MY WORKOUT” box, select the type of movement / activity, enter the number of minutes, and select a single date or date range for logging multiple days Click LOG IT Option to keep track of your activity with pen & paper; download this GMC Tracker Keep moving and logging your minutes until Feb. 28th HOW TO WIN Once again, there are three ways to win: (1) the university with the most minutes (2) the university with the highest average number of minutes per participant and (3) the region with the most minutes. The winning institutions will be announced on the www.GoMoveChallenge.org website and through our social media sites. CHALLENGE RULES AND TIPS Starts: 3:00 a.m. Eastern Time on February 1, 2022 Ends: 2:59 a.m. Eastern Time on March 1, 2022 (NOTE: Minutes will not be accepted after the challenge ends.) Use the Go Move Challenge social media sites to share photos: FB, Insta, Twitter Open the mobile-friendly challenge website from your phone’s browser to enter minutes on the go! Read the challenge FAQs at www.GoMoveChallenge.org/FAQ TERMS AND CONDITIONS By participating in this challenge, you agree to the following: I agree to log my minutes honestly, demonstrate good sportsmanship, and have fun! I certify that I am a faculty, staff, or board member of a Jesuit university or college. I certify that I am in good physical condition and am able to safely participate in the Go Move Challenge. I understand that my involvement in this Challenge as a faculty or staff member of my university shall be construed as a strictly personal, voluntary activity and not part of my faculty or staff member responsibilities or job duties as an employee, agent, or volunteer of the university. Questions? Email Suzy Kisylia, GoUSF Senior Wellness Program Manager. Please spread the word to your colleagues to join this fun challenge as a way to stay active and motivated during the winter months! If you have additional questions you can email Sue Lawler at lawlersa@bc.edu. Other Health Events Check back for Other Health Events later in the year. The edHEALTH Walking Challenge 2021 is set to start on June 7th and go through July 4, 2021. Registration for the challenge will open on June 7th. This challenge is sponsored by Harvard Pilgrim Health Care. edHEALTH Program Guide edHEALTH Quick Start Guide Connecting your device Limeade App Download Instructions Health and Well-being Calendar Healthy You Past Events Gathering in the Mods before the BC Ever to Excel 5K. Gathering in the Mods before the BC Ever to Excel 5K. Gathering in the Mods before the BC Ever to Excel 5K. « » Back To Top Back To Top Human Resources 129 Lake Street Brighton Campus 617-552-3330 About Programs and Services Active Living Events Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College