Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Crews Center for Entrepreneurship Students Events Internships FCBE About Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Find Your Place Looking to connect with like-minded students? Explore our community and how you can get connected! Minor in Entrepreneurship Take your entrepreneurial spirit to the classroom! Find out if the Entrepreneurship minor is right for you. Student Resources The Crews Center for Entrepreneurship provides coworking spaces, equipment rentals, and one-on-one mentorship. Learn how to reserve rooms, schedule meetings, and more. Entrepreneurship Degree Concentration in Management Want to align your studies with your side hustle? Pursue the Entrepreneurship track of the Management degree in FCBE! PreviousNext Take Action Learn More Book a Room Schedule a Meeting Success Stories Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Crews Center Mission The Crews Center exists to inspire, educate, develop and support both aspiring and active student entrepreneurs as they pursue their dreams. While we don't believe that all students should necessarily BE entrepreneurs, we fervently believe that every student benefits from exercising an entrepreneurial mindset, which is a key element of the 21st century skill set. Because of this, the Crews Center is a resource that is open and available to students of all disciplines and majors across the University of Memphis. Whether you just want to give yourself a competitive advantage with employers by learning the entrepreneurial mindset or you want to start or grow your own business, the Crews Center for Entrepreneurship is here to help you achieve your professional goals and dreams. Vision We believe that EVERY student should graduate from the University of Memphis with an entrepreneurial mindset, irrespective of whether or not they intend to become an entrepreneur. Opportunities for Students So, you're probably thinking, "That's nice and all, but what do you actually DO? What can I expect from the Crews Center? How do I get started?" Those are great questions! In a nutshell, we provide experiential education opportunities that allow you to actually "do" entrepreneurship. You can learn about entrepreneurship in the classroom, but you really have to do entrepreneurship in order to learn how to be an entrepreneur. There is neither one path nor one set of experiences or methods or actions that you can take to ensure success. Entrepreneurship is a wide, multi-disciplinary field with nearly endless possibilities for which you could try to prepare. What we offer you, in a nutshell, is the following: How to THINK like an entrepreneur Methods and skills for coming up with ideas and solutions that can be adapted to most industries or fields of study Direct mentoring and support: Brutal honesty (which you'll find in ample supply in the "real" world) coupled with unconditional positive support (which is a little harder to come by). Connections with the local and regional entrepreneurial support ecosystems. These are the things that you can do NOW, while you are a student, to set yourself up for success. Whether you envision yourself as an innovator in a corporate environment or a self-employed entrepreneur in your own business or nonprofit venture. How Do I Get Started? Another great question! It's really very simple: Explore our website to learn more Come visit Crews to get started Hear what others have experienced: 1 See https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1240469.pdf, https://www.nfte.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/NFTE-Whitepaper-Entrepreneurial-Mindset-On-Ramp-to-Opportunity-December-2017.pdf Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.