Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Faculty & Staff - Announcements Menu About Baylor Academics Baylor University Press College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Administration Administrative Departments Faculty Senate Institutional Effectiveness Office of the President Office of the Provost Organizational Chart Senior Administration Staff Council Facilities & Campus Services Baylor Bookstore Catering Services Copying Services Dining Services Facility Services Institutional Events Mail Services Parking & Transportation Submit Work Order University Sustainability Zipcar Finance Accounts Payable Ignite Ignite Information & Training KLX Payroll Office Purchasing Card Student Financial Services Travel & Expense Human Resources About HR BAYLORplus Benefits Compensation Employee Relations Employment Employment Laws Faculty Ombudsperson ID Card Ignite Ignite Information & Training Information Release Keep Working (Return to Campus) Learn & Grow Retirement Student Employment Tuition Benefits News & Information Baylor Magazine Baylor News Online Baylor Proud Institutional Research KWBU FM Lariat Newspaper Media and Public Relations Online Tools Academic Administrative Resource Center Academic Progress Reports Accommodate Alumni Search Banner 8 Baylor Box Service Bearweb Canvas ChairSIS ClassRoll Course Action System Course Evaluations Faculty Directory Ignite Ignite Information & Training Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Online Directory Schedule of Classes uAchieve Unified Advising System Policies & Manuals Academic Integrity and Honor Code Brand Guide Contract Review and Approval Process EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Export Compliance Faculty Handbook Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information Financial and Procurement Services Policies Information Systems Policies & Procedures PCI Compliance Personnel Policies Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Trademark & DMCA Information Travel and Entertainment Guidelines & Policies University Compliance and Risk Services Safety & Security Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Technology Activate Bear ID/Change Password E-mail/Outlook Web Access Help Desk HelpDesk+ Information Technology Services ITS - Self Service Help Learning Together LinkedIn Learning with Lynda.com Content Technology for Faculty Technology Purchasing Training & Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Development STEPP Program Technology Seminars/Training Quicklinks Accommodate Baylor Athletics Baylor Round Table Campus Map Diversity & Inclusion McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Spiritual Life Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Unified Advising System Wallpaper Complete List of Links Announcement of New Faculty-in-Residence for Earle Hall and Brooks Flats April 7, 2022 Campus Living & Learning, in collaboration with the Provost’s Office and the Prehealth Studies Office, is pleased to announce Dr. Karenna Malavanti as the new Faculty-in-Residence for Earle Hall beginning fall 2022! Dr. Karenna Malavanti is a Senior Lecturer and the Neuroscience Advisor in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience. She regularly teaches Introduction to Neuroscience, Psychological Science, and Cognition. Dr. Malavanti is a three-time Baylor alumna. She received her B.S. in Neuroscience in 2010, M.A. in Psychology in 2012, and Ph.D. in Experimental Cognitive Psychology in 2014.Dr. Malavanti’s primary research interest is in applied cognition and human memory. She has two broad areas of research, legal psychology (i.e., efficacy of juror instructions and expert testimony, eyewitness memory in bilinguals, optimal line-up procedures) and applying cognitive psychology to education (i.e., increasing retention of course material, optimal teaching and learning strategies). Dr. Malavanti has previously served as an assistant professor of Psychology at Carson-Newman University where she was privileged to serve as faculty-in-residence. For her work with students, she was honored with the Excellence in Academic Advising award (2016), student government’s Staff Appreciation Award (2016), and Student Advocate of the Year award (2017). Dr. Malavanti joined the Psychology & Neuroscience department at Baylor in 2017. In 2018, she traveled with Baylor students to Guatemala on a medical mission trip during spring break, which was a great introduction to living alongside Baylor students. Dr. Malavanti has been honored for excellence in teaching by the Office of the Provost and Academy for Teaching and Learning; she was recognized as a Baylor Fellow in 2018-2019. Dr. Malavanti is an active member of the Society for the Teaching of Psychology (APA Division 2), most recently serving as co-chair for the Early Career Psychologists committee. She regularly presents scholarship of teaching and learning (SoTL), innovative teaching practices, and professional development workshops at national teaching conferences in Psychology and Neuroscience. Dr. Malavanti greatly enjoys sharing knowledge through evidence-based teaching and student-centered course design and hopes her students love learning about the mind and the brain as much as she does. She is excited and honored to serve as faculty-in-residence for Earle Hall and the Science & Health Living-Learning Center. Joining Dr. Malavanti in this role as Faculty-in-Residence at Earle Hall will be her husband, Matthew, and her daughter, Mila (1). They are active members of First Presbyterian Church in Waco. “Baylor changed my life. As a first-generation college student, I didn’t know what to expect from college. I quickly learned that Baylor faculty, staff, and students cared about me and my future! I can’t wait to be part of this nurturing, Christian community more intentionally by living alongside students at Earle Hall. Our family motto is ‘the future is bright,’ and we can’t wait to share this light as FIR.” Special thanks to the interview committee members for their time and dedication to this important project! Sienna Antoniolli, Earle Hall Residence Hall Director Michelle Diaz, Science & Health LLC Program Director Cameron Dvorcek, Science & Health LLC Student Leader Dr. Marty Harvill, Senior Lecturer of Biology Mr. Brent Phillips, Professor, School of Music, Trombone, and current Faculty-in-Residence for University House in North Village Dr. Rich Sanker, Senior Director of Prehealth Programs and Undergraduate Research Benjamin Suhl, Community Leader for Earle Hall Campus Living & Learning, in collaboration with the Provost’s Office and the Department of Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation, is pleased to announce Dr. Lee Grumbles as the new Faculty-in-Residence for Brooks Flats beginning fall 2022! Dr. Lee Grumbles is a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation. He regularly teaches New Venture Finance, Strategic Management, Entrepreneurial Process, and Starting and Managing a Small Business. Dr. Grumbles received his B.A. in 2001 from Texas A&M University, M.B.A. in 2012 from Sam Houston State University, and Ph.D. in Business Administration in 2020 from Oklahoma State University. Dr. Grumbles’ primary research interest examines the relationship between new venture signals and investor legitimacy. He has specifically explored how new ventures can strategically leverage specific signals when competing for external capital. Prior to joining Baylor University, Dr. Grumbles was a Vice President of Commercial Banking for 17 years and has extensive experience working with entrepreneurial ventures. During his time in industry, Dr. Grumbles had the privilege of mentoring new bankers in various aspects of banking, such as B2B sales, risk assessment, and portfolio management. Dr. Grumbles is a member of the Academy of Management and is active within the field, developing and presenting entrepreneurship research. He is also currently a member of the Global Advisory Committee for the McBride Center for International Business, which focuses on study abroad initiatives within Baylor University. Dr. Grumbles is a strong proponent for active learning and regularly works at improving this teaching style, attending experiential teaching workshops and was recently appointed an active learning fellowship in the fall of 2021. Dr. Grumbles is married to Lauren Grumbles and they have two children, Ethan (13) and Avery (10). They have been active members of Faithbridge United Methodist Church for many years. “I am so excited and looking forward to working with the next generation of entrepreneurial minds. Not only is this an amazing opportunity for students to collaborate with each other on new ideas and opportunities, but also for me in helping bring these ideas to fruition.” Special thanks to the interview committee members for their time and dedication to this important project! Dr. Kendall Artz, Director, Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship & Free Enterprise and Curtis Hankamer Chair in Entrepreneurship Jillian Haag, Residence Hall Director, Brooks Flats Hall Mr. Shaun Limbers, Associate Director, Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship & Free Enterprise Mr. Brent Phillips, Professor, School of Music, Trombone, and current Faculty-in-Residence for North Village University House Kylin Richardson, Community Leader for Brooks Flats Lauren Ross, Program Director, Business & Innovation Living-Learning Center Nick Sapp, Business & Innovation LLC Student Leader Tyler Self, Clinical Assistant Professor, Entrepreneurship & Corporate Innovation Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor Academics Baylor University Press College of Arts & Sciences Commencement Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Exam Schedule George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Libraries Louise Herrington School of Nursing More Academics Music, School of Office of the Provost Office of the Registrar Professional Education Research Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science Administration Administrative Departments Faculty Senate Institutional Effectiveness Office of the President Office of the Provost Organizational Chart Senior Administration Staff Council Facilities and Campus Services Baylor Bookstore Catering Services Copying Services Dining Services Facility Services Institutional Events Mail Services Parking & Transportation Submit Work Order University Sustainability Zipcar Finance Accounts Payable Ignite Ignite Information & Training KLX Payroll Office Purchasing Card Student Financial Services Travel & Expense Human Resources About HR BAYLORplus Benefits Compensation Employee Relations Employment Employment Laws Faculty Ombudsperson ID Card Ignite Ignite Information & Training Information Release Keep Working (Return to Campus) Learn & Grow Retirement Student Employment Tuition Benefits News & Information Baylor Magazine Baylor News Online Baylor Proud Institutional Research KWBU FM Lariat Newspaper Media and Public Relations Online Tools Academic Administrative Resource Center Academic Progress Reports Accommodate Alumni Search Banner 8 Baylor Box Service Bearweb Canvas ChairSIS ClassRoll Course Action System Course Evaluations Faculty Directory Ignite Ignite Information & Training Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Online Directory Schedule of Classes uAchieve Unified Advising System Policies & Manuals Academic Integrity and Honor Code Brand Guide Contract Review and Approval Process EthicsPoint: Anonymous Reporting Export Compliance Faculty Handbook Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information Financial and Procurement Services Policies Information Systems Policies & Procedures PCI Compliance Personnel Policies Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Student Conduct Administration Trademark & DMCA Information Travel and Entertainment Guidelines & Policies University Compliance and Risk Services Safety & Security Clery Act Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Department of Public Safety Environmental Health & Safety Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX University Compliance and Risk Services Technology Activate Bear ID/Change Password E-mail/Outlook Web Access Help Desk HelpDesk+ Information Technology Services ITS - Self Service Help Learning Together LinkedIn Learning with Lynda.com Content Technology for Faculty Technology Purchasing Training & Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Development STEPP Program Technology Seminars/Training Quick Links Accommodate Baylor Athletics Baylor Round Table Campus Map Diversity & Inclusion McMullen-Connally Faculty Center Navigate/Student Success Collaborative (SSC) Report It Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct/Title IX Spiritual Life Student Life Center (SLC) Student Union (SUB, BDSC) The Facts about the Sexual Assault Crisis at Baylor Unified Advising System Wallpaper Complete List of Links