Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Give Toggle information Close detail panel Photo by Kevin Grady Your Gift Matters $50 $100 $250 $1000 Other Give Philanthropy provides 96 percent of Radcliffe’s operating income, funding Harvard Radcliffe Institute fellows, students, researchers, and public programs. As one of the world’s leading centers for interdisciplinary research, we are dependent upon the generosity and partnership of our donor community to accomplish our mission. Gifts of all sizes advance Radcliffe’s efforts to bring together students, scholars, and practitioners to engage with questions that demand cross-disciplinary exploration. In recognition of our history as Radcliffe College and the role the Institute plays as a key convener, all gifts to Radcliffe from undergraduate University alumni are recognized by the Harvard College Fund. Quick Links Give Now Ways to Give Giving Opportunities The Role of Philanthropy Giving Societies UNDERGRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES 110 Harvard undergraduates who worked with Institute fellows as Radcliffe Research Partners last year Fellowships 1,043 Radcliffe fellowships awarded since the Institute’s founding SCHLESINGER LIBRARY COLLECTIONS 850,417 Pages of historical material digitized and made available to researchers since 2015 “Conceived as a bold interdisciplinary, intergenerational, and international experiment, the Radcliffe Institute is now one of the world’s leading institutes for advanced study. The Institute is a credit to Radcliffe’s history and Harvard’s future.” Susan S. Wallach ’68, JD ’71 “Radcliffe has been a huge part of my College experience. I first started working there as a research assistant to a fellow who was studying NOW [the National Organization for Women]. Then I was on the student advisory board, and now I’m working with Emerging Leaders. It’s a wonderful way to work with Radcliffe outside the realm of research, and it feels really good to be giving back to the wider community.” Lauren Fadiman ’21 “The lives and stories of every woman in America matter. It is important that we understand who we have been and are as a whole society—that we study what has united women in American history and what has divided us. We have an awesome opportunity and responsibility to ensure that the lives, triumphs, and disappointments of a broad array of American women are preserved for future generations.” Kenvi Phillips Curator for race and ethnicity, Schlesinger Library “As my relationship to Radcliffe has evolved from student to alumna to Institute supporter, I am grateful for everything Radcliffe has given me: old and new friends, an excellent education, and ongoing access to cutting-edge ideas.” Gwill E. York ’79, MBA ’84 “From the start, I always thought of my Radcliffe experience almost like a fifth class—which you get paid for. It always felt too good to be true, and it’s been such a treat to be part of it.” Theodore R. Delwiche ’18 Former Radcliffe Research Partner “It means a lot to me that the archivists at the Schlesinger always have valued and actively collected the papers of women of color, from Charlotte Hawkins Brown to the Black Women Oral History Project. I can think of no better place than here to deposit my own family papers.” A’Lelia P. Bundles ’74 “Giving every year sends a message: I believe in what you are doing. We believe in what Radcliffe does to advance new knowledge, and we value the opportunity to meet other people who do as well. Radcliffe is a place where anyone can come and learn—what a privilege to help make that happen.” Michael Patterson ’97 and Nina Patterson “The seminar was a dream come true. The connections made, the projects in progress, the learning that happened and continues to occur, the invitations for opportunities that have resulted—I have been astounded by the impact of that experience. The work that Radcliffe does and helps to support is changing lives.” Amy Szarkowski Attending psychologist and associate professor of psychology, Harvard Medical School “My being at Radcliffe, in an environment where people bring such wholly different perspectives, has helped pull me out of my government, bureaucratic navel-gazing. It has helped me to look up rather than back and to try to write something that’s more enduring, more forward-looking.” Samantha Power 2017–2018 Perrin Moorhead Grayson and Bruns Grayson Fellow 01 / 09 Slide left Slide right Giving at Radcliffe Learn more about the important role philanthropy plays in the Institute’s work and how you can have an impact. Give Now Unrestricted Giving Giving Priorities Ways to Give Radcliffe’s Financial Model Giving Societies Support Harvard Radcliffe Institute. The Institute relies on the generosity of the Radcliffe community to fund our work. Thank you for considering a gift in support of the Institute’s mission. Give Now Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College