Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Campus Life Campus Life About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Campus Life menu Campus Life Campus Life Home Arts and Entertainment Get Involved Las Vegas Our Campus Student Support School Spirit and Traditions Wellness close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Our Campus UNLV’s 350-acre campus is at the heart of the thriving Las Vegas community. Visit us and explore our expansive green spaces, outdoor art, and modern architecture. From the bustling Student Union to the state-of-the-art Lied Library, get to know the most popular buildings on campus where you’ll be spending the most time. Greenspun Hall Greenspun Hall Home to the Greenspun College of Urban Affairs, Greenspun Hall features a media production facility for UNLV TV, the public radio station KUNV, and Rebel-HD2 – a primarily student-run station. This building also boasts energy savings, water efficiency, and reduced CO2 emissions, making it Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) gold-certified. Hospitality Hall Hospitality Hall UNLV’s newest building on campus is home to the William F. Harrah College of Hospitality. With its interactive learning opportunities, including an executive kitchen, student-run cafe, and PGA Golf Management learning center, Hospitality Hall sets a new standard of excellence in hospitality education. Lied Library Lied Library As the main library on campus, Lied Library boasts 2,500 study spaces, 300 computer workstations, and provides countless research and media resources for students. It’s also equipped with several technological innovations, including an automated storage and robotic retrieval system capable of storing 1.2 million volumes. Student Recreation and Wellness Center Student Recreation and Wellness Center From cardio equipment and free weights to swimming pools and basketball courts, the Student Recreation & Wellness Center offers something for everyone. The SRWC also houses the Student Health Center, Pharmacy, and UNLV Wellness Zone providing convenient access to health and wellness services. Science and Engineering Building Science and Engineering Building The state-of-the-art research facility was designed to promote interdisciplinary collaboration. With its exceptional laboratory space, the building offers opportunities for faculty and students to participate in high-profile research projects using some of the most technologically advanced equipment available. Student Services Complex Student Services Complex Whether you need assistance with financial aid and scholarships, want to talk to an admissions counselor, or are interested in learning more about military and veteran services on campus, you’ll want to visit the Student Services Complex. This complex is our central hub for student support and special service centers. Student Union Student Union Commonly referred to as the SU, the Student Union is a great place to meet up with friends, grab a bite to eat, get in some last minute studying, or just have fun in the game room. Offices for various student associations are located here, as well as the student government and newspaper. The Great Outdoors Recognized by the Arbor Day Foundation as a Tree Campus USA, our entire 330-acre campus is an arboretum — an outdoor museum for trees and shrubs, both native and introduced. Champion Trees Champion Trees Nestled within the canopy of the more than 4,300 trees on campus are the 10 biggest and best specimens of their kind found anywhere in the state — our champion trees. Donald H. Baepler Xeric Garden Donald H. Baepler Xeric Garden Nestled in the center of campus is this peaceful retreat for visitors. The garden has more than 9,000 square feet of paved pathways, benches, covered ramadas, and wooden bridges. The Lee Pascal Rose Garden The Lee Pascal Rose Garden The garden is a thing of beauty, as its Keats’ inspired stone reads. The memorial to Elaine Wynn’s mother is populated with “Show Biz” roses, which symbolizes the Wynn family's prominence in the gaming and entertainment world. Campus Community Garden Campus Community Garden The Campus Community Garden creates a sense of community, learning, and sustainability among students, faculty, and staff who can apply for beds, with the common goal of producing 100 percent organic, natural harvests. Campus Labyrinth Campus Labyrinth Labyrinths have a single path leading to the central goal. Following the pattern of the labyrinth can be used for stress relief, reflection, and enjoyment. Unique Academic Spaces From the golf pro shop and test kitchen in Hospitality Hall to the custom-designed training center for nursing students where manikins talk, blood is made by the gallon, and life-saving skills are mastered, our innovative spaces enhance learning experiences for students. Hospitality Hall Hospitality Hall Beyond formal experiential learning spaces, which include a test kitchen, student-run café, beverage lab and golf management center, Hospitality Hall’s design fosters collaboration, with dedicated group spaces for students deliberately set near faculty offices. Clinical Simulation Center of Las Vegas Clinical Simulation Center of Las Vegas The nursing simulation center, equipped with five high-fidelity simulation labs, a delivery room, hospital ward, and a surgical simulation suite, places students in scenarios they will encounter as professionals. Complementing the realism is the absence of an instructor during the scenario, which encourages the students to take action rather than look for approval. Makerspace and Multimedia Production Studios Makerspace and Multimedia Production Studios Students and faculty in any discipline now have unprecedented access to 3D-printers, laser cutters, and podcasting and video recording studios as part of the Lied Library’s new Makerspace and Multimedia Production Studios. The new creative space is designed to facilitate active learning, prototyping, tinkering, and community-driven or self-directed projects, and is located on the library’s first floor. UNLV Solar Site UNLV Solar Site UNLV's solar site trains students in the theory and operation of solar dish systems while improving the reliability, design and function of evolving solar technologies. The site has helped companies with new solar technologies collect and analyze valuable data and to develop enhancements to their systems, which gives students the opportunity to interact with potential employers. Media Facilities Media Facilities Our full-service media production facility provides hands-on production experiences for students to hone their skills in production, reporting, social media, and radio management. Instagram Worthy Our campus has many interesting sites — some just begging to be the star of your next selfie. Pose with a 38-foot tall Flashlight created by sculptors Claes Oldenburg and Cooje Van Bruggen, take a seat in the Ghost Chair alongside a statue of legendary coach Jerry Tarkanian, or try to find the UNLV letters in the Talisman. "We Are UNLV" Wall "We Are UNLV" Wall Ready to strike a pose? Stop by the Student Union and check out our Instagram favorite. The Flashlight The Flashlight The dedication ceremony for Claes Oldenburg's Flashlight sculpture on the plaza of the performing arts center is covered on the "Evening News with Walter Cronkite" in 1981, and the artwork becomes an instant landmark. H-1 Racer H-1 Racer A full-scale replica of Howard R. Hughes' record-setting H-1 Racer, suspended from the ceiling of the Great Hall of Engineering, is a sign of the lasting legacy Howard Hughes had on UNLV's College of Engineering. The Cube The Cube The Cube — a sculpture in the courtyard of the Thomas T. Beam Engineering Complex was created to showcase the aesthetical side of engineering. The 500-pound cube that sits on one point was officially unveiled Dec. 21, 2015. The Alumni Amphitheatre The Alumni Amphitheatre No UNLV photoshoot is complete without a stop at the Alumni Amphitheater. Built in 1999, this space is home to countless memories from an array of campuswide events. Tarkanian Monument Tarkanian Monument This 2,000-pound bronze statue of legendary Coach Jerry Tarkanian was created by sculptor Brian Hanlon in 2013. Pioneer Wall Pioneer Wall The wall, dedicated in 2009, serves as a legacy to the "pioneers" who helped establish the university and consists of a portion of Maude Frazier Hall, the first building constructed on campus in 1957. The Talisman The Talisman Don't forget to check out the Talisman Statue on campus — if you can spot the “U-N-L-V” letters in the twisted metal, you’re destined to be a Rebel! Murals UNLV has several vibrant murals celebrating the university's diversity and commitment to transforming public spaces into places of conversation and reflection. All murals are created by student or alumni artists and chronicle experiences of the UNLV and Las Vegas communities. Portraits, Plants, and Pattern Portraits, Plants, and Pattern Brian Martinez's "Portraits, Plants, and Pattern" mural draws on themes of the environment and community engagement to offer an inviting entry to the university's Flamingo Auxiliary Building. Star Studies Star Studies Lyssa Park's mural is found in the University Gateway Building. Star Studies is based on the notion that stars represent our different cultures and our innate similarities. Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter UNLV student Dexter Emery's design was chosen for a Black Lives Matter-themed banner on the Carol C. Harter Classroom Building Complex. Different Daring Diverse Different Daring Diverse Sasha Mosquera’s piece is a joyful depiction of post-pandemic life on the UNLV campus. It reflects the vibrancy, culture, and diversity of our UNLV population. UNLV Surplus Center UNLV Surplus Center The east wall of the Flamingo Auxiliary Building was painted by Annie Lin. The mural project was conducted by Planning & Construction with the goal of celebrating campus diversity and our connection to the community. Visit Campus Come visit our beautiful campus, tour state-of-the-art facilities, and get a glimpse of campus life in action. Book a Tour Maps Parking Land Acknowledgement Statement UNLV to Become a Smoke-Free Campus This Fall UNLV to Become a Smoke-Free Campus This Fall After Nearly a Decade, the Advanced Engineering Building Sees the Light of Day After Nearly a Decade, the Advanced Engineering Building Sees the Light of Day Envisioning the Future of UNLV: The New Maryland Parkway Campus Master Plan Envisioning the Future of UNLV: The New Maryland Parkway Campus Master Plan Nursing Moms Find Private Niches on Campus Nursing Moms Find Private Niches on Campus Graduate College Mural Celebrates the Talent That Surrounds Us Graduate College Mural Celebrates the Talent That Surrounds Us 'A Beacon Shining in the Night' 'A Beacon Shining in the Night' The Back Story: Pioneer Wall The Back Story: Pioneer Wall Surplus Center's Art Deficit No More Surplus Center's Art Deficit No More More Stories Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV