× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Services for MBA Students Services for MBA Students Bookmark This Services for MBA Students /services/services-for-mba-students 99 35601 Services for MBA Students /services/services-for-mba-students 99 35601 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Maximize your MBA experience! Work with Baker staff to create target lists of companies, order HBS cases, research your paper or project topics, and prepare for FIELD Global Immersion (FGI). For a full list of library services for MBA students, please see below: Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Add My Librarian Item Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Add My Librarian Item Case Requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 HBS Working Knowledge /services/hbs-working-knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. 67 34931 Add My Librarian Item HBS Working Knowledge Staffed by a small team of experienced journalists, Harvard Business School Working Knowledge publishes accessible feature articles about faculty research (and practice) for an audience of business practitioners. We also publish brief summaries of every working paper published through HBS. Our goal: to explain the practical relevance of economic research to a non-academic audience. Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Library Tours /services/library-tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. 67 84271 Add My Librarian Item Library Tours Tours are available for the HBS and Harvard communities in different formats to meet a variety of needs. We also offer tours to other visitors on a limited basis depending on the purpose of the tour and the availability of staff guides. Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Newsletters /services/newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. 67 52503 Add My Librarian Item Newsletters Baker Library publishes a range of newsletters every week for different HBS audiences. Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Add My Librarian Item Workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.