Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Life at UC » Student Employment » Academic Training (J-1) Set Navigation title in component Student Experiences Essential Resources Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Academic Training Academic training is authorized employment which provides complementary practical experience in a student's field of study. J-1 students are eligible for academic training upon completion of their degree up to 18 months of practical training for all students up to 3 years for post-doctoral training Academic training must be authorized before you can legally begin working. Application Process You must have a job offer related to your field of study in order to request academic training. You need to apply for academic training no later than date of completion of studies indicated on the DS-2019. To apply, submit an Academic Training eForm on iBearcatsGlobal. The eForm is under J-1 Student Services. You will need the following information: Name of employer Address of employment Hours to be worked Date of degree completion Description of job duties Name of supervisor Phone number and email of supervisor Employment Identification Number (EIN) During Your Training While on academic training, you are still under the jurisdiction of the University of Cincinnati, even though your place of employment may be located elsewhere in the US. If you are planning to travel outside the US while on academic training, contact UC International for instructions. You are responsible for being aware of the end date on your DS-2019. If you need to apply for an extension of stay, apply to UC International with enough time to keep your status active through the entire period of academic training. Pay your taxes Until you have been in the US more than 5 years, social security taxes shoud not be withheld from the wages of a J-1 on Academic Training. You will, however, need to pay local & federal taxes on your earnings. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top