Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Training Basic Science Departments Summer Research Training Program Available Projects Program Flow Chart Previous Research Projects Graduate Degree Programs Research Resources Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors School of Medicine Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Medicine Academics Academics Degree Programs Departments Residents & Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Premedical Programs Research School of Medicine Training Research Basic Science Departments Summer Research Training Program Available Projects Program Flow Chart Previous Research Projects Graduate Degree Programs Research Resources Patient Care Patient Care Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education Campuses Campuses Kansas City Salina Wichita Related Links: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Campus Life Outreach Outreach K-12 Programs Prospective Student Programs Current Student Programs Related Links: Diversity and Inclusion Premedical Programs Health Care Pipeline Programs Rural Medical Education About About Leadership Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Policies & Procedures Campus Life History Accreditation Maps & Directions KU Medicine Magazine Faculty Affairs & Development Make a Gift Summer Research Training Program KU medical students gain hands-on experience in an ongoing research project starting with a review of the literature and ending with written and oral presentations of their research findings at the Student Research Forum. Available Projects Program Flow Chart Previous Research Projects Frequently Asked Questions How do I find a mentor? Answer: There are many ways to identify a mentor. View all the Summer Opportunities. Talk to students from previous years. Talk to your society advisor. Talk to Dr. Stanford. But it really comes down to your career goals and interests. This is a great opportunity to learn about future opportunities, and also to build your CV so that you are better prepared to match to a particular program. I am a Mentor. How do I let the students know about a possible summer project? Answer: If you would like to advertise your summer research project opportunity, fill out the new "Investigators Seeking Research Trainees" section in Faculty Activity Collaboration Tool (FACT). You may also make arrangements with students individually Will I receive a scholarship? Answer: Maybe. It is a competitive process. We will send your application to all pertinent funding sources. In addition, your mentor may provide you with a scholarship. If you do not receive a scholarship you are still eligible for financial aid since this is a course you will take for credit. Questions? Contact: John A. Stanford, Ph.D. Professor, Molecular & Integrative Physiology Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education, School of Medicine Program Director, Kansas IDeA Network of Biomedical Research Excellence (K-INBRE) Program Director, KUMC Biomedical Research Training Program University of Kansas Medical Center 3901 Rainbow Blvd., MS 3051 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-7416 jstanford@kumc.edu KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center School of Medicine 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5000 KU Medical Center School of Health Professions School of Nursing Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.