About Sr. Vice Provost for Research Penn Research: By the Numbers Reporting Offices Associated Offices Committees Featured Research Stories All OVPR News Contact the OVPR Centers & Institutes Compliance & Training Financial Conflicts of Interest in Research Program Research Integrity Responsible Conduct of Research Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative Other Research Related Training Guidance on Institutional Conflict of Interest – Human Subjects Research FCOI Related Policies Funding URF Grant Guidelines Research Recovery Program Discovering the Future Accelerating from Lab to Market Provost Funding Limited Submission Opportunities SPIN Database URF 2017 Report Resources Participation Agreement PDF Penn Research Portal Research Resource Hub Grant Financial Management (GFM) Electronic Research Notebooks International Partners in Research Research Excellence Initiative Research Resumption during COVID Postdocs & Students Postdoctoral Policies Penn Provost’s Postdoctoral Fellowships Recipients: Penn Provost’s Postdoctoral Fellowships About Sr. Vice Provost for Research Penn Research: By the Numbers Reporting Offices Associated Offices Committees Featured Research Stories All OVPR News Contact the OVPR Centers & Institutes Compliance & Training Financial Conflicts of Interest in Research Program Research Integrity Responsible Conduct of Research Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative Other Research Related Training Guidance on Institutional Conflict of Interest – Human Subjects Research FCOI Related Policies Funding URF Grant Guidelines Research Recovery Program Discovering the Future Accelerating from Lab to Market Provost Funding Limited Submission Opportunities SPIN Database URF 2017 Report Resources Participation Agreement PDF Penn Research Portal Research Resource Hub Grant Financial Management (GFM) Electronic Research Notebooks International Partners in Research Research Excellence Initiative Research Resumption during COVID Postdocs & Students Postdoctoral Policies Penn Provost’s Postdoctoral Fellowships Recipients: Penn Provost’s Postdoctoral Fellowships Just Released: Research at Penn 2022 Read Now » Faculty Research Portal The Research Portal is a gateway to Penn's research systems and provides faculty with an overview of their grant funds including budget spent and time remaining. Research Portal » Current Research Stories from Penn Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox 2022-06-01 An arms race that plays out in a single genome 2022-05-27 Soft ‘rotini’ robots navigate with a snap 2022-05-27 From Buddhist temples to Penn Libraries 2022-05-24 All Stories Pandemic Impact Report The report includes research progress during the pandemic, qualitative and quantitative assessments of negative impact, and initial mitigation programs. Pandemic Report Research Resource Hub A comprehensive compilation of online resources covering the research process life-cycle. Resource Hub LabArchives A cloud based, secure Electronic Research Notebook system available to Penn researchers. LabArchives Research Portal A gateway to Penn Research Administration systems providing easy access to your entire research portfolio. Research Portal Funding & Fellowships University Research Foundation An internal funding program that offers close to $1 million twice a year in four disciplinary areas of study. Grant: Accelerating from Lab to Market A pre-seed grant to transition exciting new ideas to the point at which they can be commercialized and brought to market. Grant: Discovering the Future A grant to transition exciting new ideas to the point at which they can be sustained by other modes of support. Postdoctoral Diversity Fellowships A competitive program whose goal is to increase the diversity of the community of scholars devoted to academic research. Sponsored Programs Information Network A funding opportunity database. Limited Submissions The OVPR coordinates the selection process for grant competitions in instances where a limited number of applications are accepted. Within the OVPR PCI Penn Center for Innovation: Translating Penn discoveries and ideas into new products and businesses for the benefit of society. IRB Institutional Review Board: IRB promotes and protects the welfare of human research participants by reviewing and approving all human subject research. RIO Research Integrity Office: Management of the University’s Research-related Financial Conflicts of Interest Program and oversight of the Office’s commitment to Responsible Conduct of Research and Research Integrity. EHRS Environmental Health and Radiation Safety: Ensuring health, safety, and environmental protection in teaching, research, and healthcare programs and facilities. OAW Office of Animal Welfare: comprehensive support and guidance to the animal research community on matters related to protocol development and regulatory compliance. ULAR University Laboratory Animal Resources: A campus-wide research service organization that provides daily animal husbandry, veterinary care and diagnostic services. ORS Office of Research Services: Managing externally sponsored research projects through the pre-award and post-award processes. Advisory Committees Formulating, implementing and ensuring compliance of all research policies. Senior Vice Provost for Research Dawn Bonnell shapes policy and advances administrative initiatives for the University’s $900+ million research enterprise Centers & Institutes The University’s integrated campus facilitates unique investigative collaborations across disciplines and research at Penn’s Centers and Institutes represent some of the most cutting edge investigations taking place in the world today. A searchable database of the University’s many Centers and Institutes is to the left. On behalf of the Provost, the Vice Provost for Research oversees the 8 University-wide Centers & Institutes featured below. Learn more about our 170+ centers » Featured Institutes Institute for Regenerative Medicine Center for Public Health Initiatives Laboratory for Research on the Structure of Matter Mahoney Institute for Neurological Sciences Center for Neuroscience and Society Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics Penn Institute for Urban Research All 170+ UPenn Research Centers & Institutes » Regulatory Topics FCOI Penn’s research-related financial conflicts of interest policy. Training Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) and other research related training. Integrity & RCR Responsible Conduct of Research as mandated by the National Institutes of Health. Policies Downloads and links to various Penn compliance policies. SEARCH @PennOVPR December 13, 2021 @PennOVPR "Through this project, we will elevate the innovation and impact of Penn scholarship to its highest level. It will… t.co/d7YhIhz9Lq December 8, 2021 @PennOVPR Penn’s Innovation in Data Engineering and Science (IDEAS) initiative positions the university to become a leader in… t.co/yY4HCehsSi Load More RESEARCH at PENN 13 mins ago @PennIUR "It’s been decades since rates rose so quickly, so it’s kind of a shock," says Penn IUR Advisory Board Member Tom M… t.co/DKW5PlEBNE 28 mins ago @PennMedicine Great discoveries like the COVID-19 mRNA vaccines are built upon a foundation of determined, hardworking thinkers a… t.co/OnDfk6pFwk 1 hour ago @LauderInstitute Class is back in session! We are excited to welcome the Class of 2024 on their first day at The Lauder Institute!… t.co/Nx2cHcnW7p Load More List Members TOOLBOX U@Penn Research Links ARIES BEN Financials BioRAFT CITI Training ERS FIDES GRAM GFM (Grant Financial Management) HP Assist (Radiation Safety) HS-ERA Knowledgelink LabArchives MTA/NMA (Research Inventory) Patent Participation Agreement Penn+Box Penn ERA PCI Inventor Portal PHS-FITS POLARIS SHEPHERD Space@Penn System Access Request Forms DOWNLOAD Research at Penn 2022 » Volume 20 Research at Penn 2021 » Volume 19 Research at Penn 2020 » Volume 18 Research at Penn 2019 » Volume 17 Research at Penn 2018 » Volume 16 Research at Penn 2017 » Volume 15 PCI Commercialization Guide » Spring 2017 Research at Penn 2016 » Volume 14 Research at Penn 2015 » Volume 13 Penn Research Penn receives over 5800 awards on an annual basis. The University is consistently ranked as one of the largest recipients of funding from the National Institutes of Health and federal support in total accounts for 85 percent of sponsored program support. Penn also receives valuable support from a host of other sponsors, including the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the City of Philadelphia, foundations, associations, and industry partners. Research by School Graduate School of Education Carey Law School Perelman School of Medicine School of Arts & Sciences School of Dental Medicine Stuart Weitzman School of Design – School of Engineering & Applied Science School of Nursing School of Social Policy & Practice School of Veterinary Medicine Wharton School Annenberg School for Communications Contact the OVPR 1 College Hall, Suite 118 University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-6303 USA TEL: 215-898-7236 FAX: 215-573-2108 Sitemap Contact the Webmaster @PennOVPR Report accessibility issues & get help © Copyright 2022 - Privacy Policy | University of Pennsylvania - Provost's Center - Office of the Vice Provost for Research↑