Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Civil Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT In 2017, the American Society of Civil Engineers graded the U.S. infrastructure system and gave it a D+. Business as usual is not an option anymore, so civil engineers are faced with building and rebuilding the future. As the broadest of the engineering professions, civil engineering provides a foundation for careers in structural engineering, construction materials engineering, construction management, geotechnical engineering, transportation, water resource engineering and fluid mechanics. With a major in civil engineering from Clemson, you’ll learn to create, plan, design, construct, maintain and operate the structures, facilities and systems that are vital to the economy and to sustaining our civilization. The focus of the program is sustainable and resilient infrastructure. FAST FACTS Clemson’s civil engineering department has been ranked among the top civil engineering programs in the United States. Our bachelor's/master's program allows qualified seniors to get a head start on their master's degree. Glenn Department of Civil Engineering professors have authored books and served as ASCE Fellows. The national and international award winning Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries is a collaborative student initiative that aims to help develop Third World countries through technical support. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you’ll have a year to explore many different engineering disciplines, meet faculty from each of our engineering departments and discover which major fits your personal interests and talents. On the admissions application, you will apply as a general engineering major. As a civil engineering major you'll work closely with talented faculty who share a passion for civil engineering and for educating the next generation. Construction Engineering and Management Emphasis: Dive into engineering and building systems and the management concepts used to execute construction projects. Construction Materials Emphasis: Discover how to analyze and design materials including concrete, asphalt, aggregate and soil. Environmental Engineering Emphasis: Strengthen your depth of understanding of how civil engineering interfaces with the environment. Geotechnical/Geo-environmental Engineering Emphasis: Learn in situ, mechanical and physical properties of geo-materials and the related environmental issues. Structural Engineering Emphasis: Understand the behavior of various structural materials and learn to analyze and design complex structural systems. Transportation Systems Emphasis: Learn how to effectively move people and goods through interconnected air, land and marine transportation systems. Water Resources Engineering: Gain specialized education in the movement and behavior of surface and subsurface water and their interaction with each other and with natural and manmade conditions. Curriculum Civil Engineering, B.S. Popular Minors Architecture Business Administration Similar Majors Environmental Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM We in the Glenn Department of Civil Engineering recognize that learning is not limited to a classroom setting. Our students are encouraged to get involved by participating in student organizations, research opportunities with professors, Creative Inquiry research projects, cooperative education and study abroad experiences. Student Orgs Student chapters and professional societies hold regular meetings throughout the fall and spring semesters, providing students the opportunity to engage with one another, faculty and practicing professionals. Research Students are encouraged to seek out research opportunities through participation in Creative Inquiry projects. About 25 percent of our students are involved in some form of research.Learn More » Co-op Cooperative education is a valuable tool that allows students to use classroom knowledge in a real-world setting. From special advising to various summer course offerings, every effort is made to make the co-op process as seamless as possible.Learn More » Study Abroad Civil engineering students can participate in an internship program with Tongji University in China. Concrete Canoe The Clemson Concrete Canoe team competes regionally and nationally, gaining real-world experience as they use technical skills, teamwork and creativity to design, construct and race a concrete canoe. Steel Bridge Students shine annually in regional and national competition by participating in the ASCE Steel Bridge competition. The team designs and fabricates bridge components that are as light as possible but can also sustain a 2,500-pound load. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clemson American Society of Civil Engineers Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries Structural Engineers Association Luther Fant Institute of Transportation Engineers at Clemson PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Assistant Preconstruction Manager Brasfield & Gorrie Roadway Engineer HDR Office/Field Engineer Kiewit Civil Analyst Kimley Horn Construction Services Staff Professional SM&E RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Civil Engineering Clemson University Ph.D. Civil Engineering Virginia Tech J.D. College of Charleston COMMON CAREER AREAS Construction Geotechnical Materials Risk Engineering and System Analytics Structural Transportation Engineering Water Resources FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Civil Engineering (B.S.) Environmental Engineering (B.S.)