Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving About About the iSchool As a premier research and education program for the 21st century field of information, the School of Information is changing the future by engaging the present and preserving the past. Core Values A Future-Oriented Home for Innovation In a world where information is one of our most important resources, the School of Information is changing the ways that we interact with information and technology, changing how information can make the world a better and fairer place, and changing the ways we protect and preserve our collective memory. We are educating the next generation of information creators, innovators, brokers, and designers. What is an iSchool? We are living in an Information Age. Information systems and technologies are fundamentally shaping the behaviors of individuals, organizations, and society — impacting how we interact and connect, learn and develop new knowledge, conduct business, engage with culture, participate in politics and government, and much more. Research and teaching at the School of Information explore: the interactions of people and information the processes of managing and organizing information for meaning and use the impact of new technologies and behaviors on individuals, organizations, and society Our students learn to design new tools, analyze human activities, organize information, and ensure technology serves its intended users. ischools-organization-logo.png The UT Austin School of Information is a founding member of the international iSchools organization, and has a long history of interdisciplinary scholarship and research focused on the human, social, cultural, and technical aspects of information. Explore the iSchool Vision & Core Values Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Contact Us Become an iSchooler Our Programs Our new undergraduate program, a top-ranked master's program, joint degrees with other leading UT programs (like computer science, public affairs, liberal arts, or law), and PhD program come to life in the heart of Austin, Texas. Undergraduate Program MS Information Studies Dual Degree Programs PhD Program School Librarian Certificate Program Our People Information Studies is unusual among STEM disciplines in that two thirds of our iSchool students are women, many of whom are drawn to us because of our human-centered approach to technology. We also attract students from around the world, with one third of iSchool students coming to Texas from outside of the US. Our faculty and staff come from diverse personal and academic backgrounds, each contributing to our shared goal of keeping humans at the center of our information-rich world. This commitment to diversity and inclusion is seen in everything we do. School of Information - Faculty Research Video of School of Information - Faculty Research Building a Better, Information-Rich Future Our diverse, world-class faculty is conducting research that will shape the way we use technology to educate our children, our interdisciplinary and collaborative research will help save lives, and our work will influence the design of technology that will make our lives better by facilitating access. We are truly a home for innovation. Explore iSchool Research History & Tradition While our name and degrees have changed since our founding in 1948, we've always balanced the values of information access as a human and social benefit with the intellectual and technical skills needed to lead in the Information Age. Learn More Diversity & Inclusion We put human values at the heart of what we do. Because diverse people, perspectives and ideas create an optimal learning and research environment, we strive to foster an inclusive, accessible and welcoming campus culture. Read Our Statement About The University of Texas at Austin UT Austin is one of the world's premier research universities, with top-ranked programs like the iSchool and resources of one of the largest public universities in the US. About UT Austin Life in Austin, Texas Innovation and research come to life in the heart of Austin, Texas, a vibrant city known for its unique mix of culture and technology. About Austin Support the iSchool Your gift to the iSchool has a direct impact on our students—the next generation of information professionals and future leaders in the field. How to Support the iSchool Make A Gift Indigenous Land Acknowledgement We acknowledge that the iSchool sits on indigenous land. The Tonkawa lived in central Texas and the Comanche and Apache moved through this area. Today, various indigenous peoples from all over the globe visit Austin and/or call it home. We are grateful to be able to study and learn on this piece of Turtle Island. Program Statistics Student Achievement Data UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022