Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Undergraduate Studies Welcome to Undergraduate Studies for Students UGS Home Faculty General Education/Crossings Academic Partners Additional Resources Contact Us Student Programs Center for Career Professional Development — Build your classroom knowledge with real-world experience. Creative Inquiry — Earn course credit by joining peers and faculty mentors in conducting multi-semester research projects in varying areas of interest. FIRST — Assisting first-generation college students in reaching their career goals in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) majors. Mentoring — A number of programs at Clemson offer incoming students support with academic and social transitions. Study Abroad — Expand your horizons by taking classes abroad. Student Services Academic Success Center — Find tutors, take workshops and receive academic counseling specific to your needs. Financial Aid — Helps students secure the funds necessary to pursue their educational goals at Clemson University through the administration and implementation of federal, state and institutional programs of financial assistance. Student Accessibility Services — Access services to support disability-related academic and other challenges on campus. Graduation Requirements Undergraduate Catalog Major and Minor requirements — see Degree Works Academic Requirements Academic Eligibility — Refer to Clemson’s guidelines in regards to eligibility standards to ensure academic success. Academic Grievances — These guidelines will explain the process you would take if you felt that you were treated unfairly in the assigning of a final grade. Academic Integrity — Refer to Clemson’s guidelines on honesty and respect in academics, and learn what to do if your academic integrity is questioned. (Policy and procedures are also in the academic catalog.) Academic Success Center Student Access Summer Session Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram