Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Music Department Menu Main Nav Music Department Music Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview History of Music at Boston College Giving to Music Contact People Academics Overview Admission Core Offerings Major Requirements Minor Requirements Study Abroad Honors Credit for Performance Performance Overview Boston College Symphony Orchestra Chamber Music Society Waaw Waaw BC Middle East Astaza! Ensemble Private Lessons Music Outreach Concert Calendar Our Work Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the Music Department Conscious of Boston College's mission, the Music Department rises to the challenge of educating the whole person. Our programs, both curricular and extra-curricular, are carefully designed to engage the intellectual, emotional, physical and spiritual faculties of our students, the College family, and the wider community. You are always welcome to contact us; a warm welcome awaits you. More About The Department Undergraduate Major in Music Undergraduate Minor in Music Private Instrument and Voice Lessons Private Lessons Registration for the Spring 2022 semester is now closed. Registration for the Fall 2022 semester will open in August 2022. More Information On Private Lessons Department Events Music Department Student Voices Boston College Music Department "I was taught the ability to understand music in a completely different way…I met faculty who genuinely care…it's really convenient to take music alongside another major." Why I fell in love with music Annie Kim, MCAS '18 A music and history double major, junior Annie Kim talks about her experiences in the music department. Making music part of the BC experience Patrick Roehm, MCAS '17 A history and economics major, senior Patrick Roehm talks about his experience of being a part of the Symphony Orchestra at Boston College. Making Music Defines Me Michael Mastellone, CSOM '18 While pursuing a major in finance at the Carroll School of Management, Mike Mastellone has declaired a minor in music. Mastellone has performed throughout his life, and his work with the department has enhanced his ability to perform, sing and write music. Countless Performance Opportunities Isabelle Pazar, MCAS '18 Isabelle Pazar '19 plays the flute and has taken advantage of the many performance opportunities within the music department. Music Enables Self-Expression Nicholas Rocchio-Giordano, MCAS '18 Nick Rocchio-Giordano, a music major and English minor, learned first-hand that music is a universal language when he traveled to Ecuador to study. A Life-changing Experience Monica Grady, MCAS '17 Monica Grady '17 found support from faculty and peers in the music department that helped her find direction and a career path she is passionate about. News and Events All Logs Auditions Lessons Children's Opera - "The Nightingale" presented by the BC Music Department Back To Top Back To Top Music Department Lyons Hall 416 617-552-8720 musicdep@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to Music Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College