Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Employment Verifications: The Work Number® University Human Resources partners with The Work Number® to manage employment verifications and salary information required by lending companies. The Work Number® provides instant and secure employment and income verifications 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. You would use The Work Number® when: Applying for a loan Applying for a credit card Buying a car Providing proof of employment Qualifying for public assistance The Work Number is available to students, faculty, and staff. Here’s all you need to do: Access The Work Number® yourself to get the needed information right away. Notify your lender that Brown University uses The Work Number® for all forms of salary information or employment verification. Prospective Employers, Banks and Others If you are looking to verify the employment of a current or past Brown University student, faculty, or staff member, visit The Work Number website or call 1-800-367-2884. Brown University's employer code is 29190. Please note: Effective June 2020 Brown moved to Employer Code 29190. If an employee has a transfer status in The Work Number, it simply means any new information for that employee will be loaded under the new Employer Code after their transfer date. Employee data prior to June 2020 can be found under Employer Code 18111 or 17727. For any questions about employment verifications or The Work Number®, please email [email protected] Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat