Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation Annual Conferences PHP1001 Public Health Course Offerings PHP1001 What is PHP1001? PHP1001 is an online course required of first year graduate students in all SPH programs and newly declared ScB Statistics concentrators. The course, which is neither credit bearing nor tuition requiring, provides a broad exposure to important public health content as mandated by our accrediting body, CEPH. All modules are required for all new students regardless of program of enrollment or prior course work or degrees (Note: ScB Statistics students who are also concentrating in Public Health are exempt from the course). Course Description Public Health 1001 provides an introduction to public health concepts and practice by examining the philosophy, history, purpose, organization, functions, tools, activities and population impact of public health. The emphasis is on the core areas of public health, challenges and strategies for working with communities, and specific health issues that impact the health of the population. The instructional methods emphasize competency in basic concepts through active student participation in a variety of computer-mediated activities. How will I be enrolled? All new graduate students in all SPH programs and new concentrators in Statistics will be automatically enrolled in the course. Students will receive an introductory email with links to the Canvas site through which the course is administered. General course structure The course consists of online modules in the following areas: Overview Epidemiology Environmental Health Behavioral and Social Sciences Global Health Within each module, specific sessions are designed by SPH faculty members with expertise in the session area. Requirements for completion Successful completion of the course is a requirement for conferral of any SPH graduate degree and the ScB in Statistics degree. A Certificate of Completion will be delivered by the end of the academic year to each student who successfully completes all modules of the course. Academics Annual Conferences PHP1001 Public Health Course Offerings School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top