Skip to main content SMU SMU Ignited Menu Search Narrative as reality Acclaimed education advocate and NFL athlete Kelvin Beachum ’10, ’12 utilizes art as another way to bring people together to explore and understand our complex world. Watch Kelvin Beachum ’10, ’12 More Great Stories with World Changing Impact Detecting the Unseen A team of SMU researchers use satellite radar imagery to reveal hundreds of unseen landslides occurring in Western U.S. states. Read More Excelling in Business Be self-aware. Embrace unexpected opportunities. Lead with empathy. That’s just some of the great advice shared by alumni who took their SMU degrees and forged unexpected paths after leaving the Hilltop. One thing they all have in common is that they didn’t let fear get in their way. When they have a vision, Mustangs are unstoppable. Read More Finding Her Yes Hannah Clark ’23 never dreamed NASA would be in her future. Now she’s completing her second stint with the space agency where she’s working on an engineering challenge for other students. Read More Finding Math Everywhere SMU’s Candace Walkington helps math come alive by connecting it to everyday experiences. Read More Neighborhoods in Focus Researchers combined street-level investigations with SMU’s supercomputer power to reveal infrastructure deserts. Their study lays the groundwork for improving neighborhoods. Read More 3 Mustangs, 2 Years, 1 Global Pandemic SMU undergraduate students Kelsey Hodge ’20, Nushah Rahman ’23 and Alexandra Savu ’23 walk us through their first four months of the COVID-19 pandemic in a short film by Alexa May ’23. They navigate a campus-wide shutdown, dramatic shifts in religious and social life, cries for racial justice and an uncertain future. Despite the challenges, their stories offer a collective voice of hope as we look forward to a new year on campus. WATCH Big idea. Big rewards. Big future. Startup co-founder Seun Suberu ’23 arrived on campus with big ambitions for the future of his CollegePlus app. Fast forward three years, and Suberu has honed new business skills while earning more than $85,000 in funding through multiple SMU competitions designed to jump-start student-led innovation. Read more Entrepreneurial brothers go “all in” Brothers and SMU alumni Stuart Edenfield ’07 and Curtis Edenfield ’09 envisioned a life of entrepreneurship after the Hilltop. After a decade of working for others in the world of aviation, they founded private jet charter company Thrive Aviation in 2018. Read More Continuing the legacy of empowerment Hispanic Alumni of SMU Board has raised more than $250,000 in scholarship funds that do more than help cover the cost of tuition. Read More Lab on a chip SMU researchers put the COVID-19 pandemic to work as a proving ground for a fast, accurate and affordable immune response test. Lead researchers Ali Beskok and J.-C. Chiao, professors in the Lyle School of Engineering, are seeking funding to fully develop the potential of their breakthrough test. Read More Welcome back Mustangs Mustangs make the Hilltop special. Fall 2021 promises to deliver on that truth as students, faculty and staff return to a more traditional campus experience. Read More Stoking the fires of change Photojournalist Stuart Palley ’11 experiences wildfires in the moment. SMU researcher Chris Roos looks at them through the long lens of archaeology. Ultimately, their perspectives are the same: Wildfires are getting worse, and there’s an urgent need to adopt coexistence strategies. Read More Here We Go, Mustangs! 2021 Our students perfected the pivot while earning degrees. Now they're ready to use their know-how to do a world of good. Click on their photos below to learn about some of our stellar grads. Read More Art as Activism SMU theatre students share their reflections on the lingering impact of their performances on their art and in their lives. Read More Common Connections For their first two years at SMU, our students live on campus in 11 Residential Commons where they often learn as much about themselves as they do about one another. Read More A Witness to History NBC News and MSNBC correspondent Garrett Haake ’07 lives by the advice he learned from an SMU faculty mentor – stay packed, and don’t make any dinner plans that can’t be canceled. Read More Prepared to Lead Ana Rodriguez and the SMU Cox Latino Leadership Initiative are breaking down barriers and reversing the trend for Latino leaders – one promotion at a time. Read More Welcome Mustangs There’s no doubt that the pandemic has changed how we live, learn, work and teach. We’ve been working hard across campus to welcome our new and continuing Mustangs this fall! Read More Finding Your Place Kaitlyn Contreras, '20 was the first in her family to go to college. Find out how she found her place at SMU. Read More Tom & Chance Buning ‘20 Father-and-son graduates Tom Buning ’20 and Chance Buning ’20 have great memories from their shared time as students at SMU. Read More Here We Go, Mustangs! They’ve put in the hard work, and now the Class of 2019 is ready for life’s next big adventure. Read More Mickey's Wild Ride From bobsledding to the Oklahoma State Legislature, Mickey Dollens ’11 never quits. Read More From Honduras to Texas, With Love. Read More Teaching Innovation SMU professors bring innovative tools and techniques to wherever the students are. And it only starts in the classroom. Read More Conquering the Divide SMU researchers hope their work will help cities make more equitable choices for residents of neighborhoods like Dallas' Vickery Meadow. Read More Cooking Up Something Good SMU first-year student Sarah Tersigni spoons a tiny piece of eggshell from the four eggs she's cracked into a glass bowl. She's making the filling for the lemon squares that she will serve later to fellow students in her residence hall. Read More Here We Go Mustangs '20 The COVID-19 pandemic changed everything this semester, but couldn’t stop our 2020 grads. They pivoted to remote classes and continued to learn, create and achieve. Read More “SMU allowed me to try so many new things and supported my intellectual curiosity. Looking back, it is really cool to see all that I have accomplished.” - Monica Lee '20 Read More Seamonsters Unearthed What happens on earth when you put an ocean where there wasn’t one before? Read More Shear Genius SMU alum Courtney Caldwell ’00 and her husband, Tye, are shaking up the salon industry with ShearShare, a mobile B2B platform shaped for the gig economy. Read More Speaking Up Hallie Hovey-Murray ’16 brings a fresh voice to autism advocacy. Read More First in her family, Kaitlyn Contreras finds her place Read More Finding Your Path at SMU Read More Wired For Good See three SMU teams tapping technology to change lives. Watch On the Fly SMU engineers set up an innovative lab for drone study. Read More Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Admission Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Apply Now Visit SMU Financial Aid Request Information Parent Information Virtual Tour Academics Overview Majors and Minors Libraries SMU Research Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development The Guildhall Student Life Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life SMU and Dallas Virtual Tour About About SMU Administration Annual Report Core Values Diversity and Inclusion Maps and Directions Mission Statement Strategic Plan News Events Athletics Research Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search