Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OPHTHALMOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 OPHTH 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 25) Francis Thesis-based research in vision and ophthalmology. Elective. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 498 OPHTH 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 25) Francis Laboratory or clinical research in morphology, biochemistry, immunology, experimental pathology, or clinical studies of the eye and visual system. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 499 OPHTH 501 P-Ophthalmology Preceptorship (1, max. 12) Individualized experiences with one or more of the full-time faculty members of the department covering research, teaching, and patient care. Student observes activities in the clinic, hospital ward, operating room, and research laboratories. Prerequisite: first- and second-year medical student standing and permission of instructor. Instructors: Francis Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 501 OPHTH 600 Independent Study or Research (*) Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 600 OPHTH 681 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - HMC/Eye Institute (4/8, max. 12) Students gain experience in the diagnosis and treatment of common ocular disorders. Basic examination techniques, including tonometry, ophthalmoscopy, and biomicroscopy. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 681 OPHTH 683 P-Pediatric Ophthalmology Clerkship - Seattle Children's (4) Student examines and observes treatment of children with ocular diseases and learns to differentiate trivial from potentially blinding disorders. Furnishes programmed text in general ophthalmology. Prerequisite: completion of an ophthalmology clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 683 OPHTH 685 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - VAPSHCS (4) Participation in diagnosis and treatment of medical and surgical ocular disease. Outpatient examinations, inpatient surgery, as well as neuro-ophthalmologic, retinal, and glaucoma consultations. Basic techniques involved in tonometry, ophthalmoscopy, and biomicroscopy of eye. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 685 OPHTH 686 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - Kaiser Permanente (4) Diagnosis and treatment of ocular disease in outpatients. Weekly assignments to Kaiser Permanente ophthalmologist responsible for the care of walk-in and urgent patients, demonstrating findings pertinent to the future practice of primary-care physicians. Examination techniques, including tonometry, ophthalmoscopy, and biomicroscopy of eye. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 686 OPHTH 688 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - Anchorage (4-8) Two or four week externship at Alaska Native Medical Center in Anchorage. Opportunity to learn and practice common eye examination techniques, including slit-lamp biomicroscopy, tonometry, and funduscopy. Patients seen three days a week; two days spent in the operating room. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series, MED 665, and SURG 665; fourth-year medical students only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 688 OPHTH 689 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - Spokane (4) Diagnosis and management of commonly seen eye diseases. Subspecialty clinics include cornea, retina, glaucoma, contact lenses, and strabismus. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 689 OPHTH 690 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - Missoula (4) Diagnosis and management of commonly seen eye diseases. Subspecialty clinics include cornea, retina, glaucoma, contact lenses, and strabismus. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 690 OPHTH 691 P-Ophthalmology Clerkship - Nampa (4) Diagnosis and management of commonly seen eye diseases. Subspecialty clinics include cornea, retina, neuro-ophthalmology, glaucoma, contact lenses, and strabismus. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 691 OPHTH 692 P - Ophthalmology Clerkship - Bozeman (4) Diagnosis and management of commonly seen eye diseases. Subspecialty clinics include cornea, retina, glaucoma, contact lenses, and strabismus. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 692 OPHTH 695 P-Ophthalmology Advanced Clerkship - HMC (4) Students gain advanced experience in the diagnosis, evaluation, and treatment of inpatient and emergency department ophthalmology consults, including emergency surgeries. Prerequisite: completion of human biology series; prior ophthalmology clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 695 OPHTH 697 P-Ophthalmology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By specific arrangement, for qualified students, special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities are at times made available at institutions or clinics other than the UW. Prospective students obtain from the dean's office a special assignment form at least one month before preregistration. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Francis Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 697 OPHTH 699 P-WWAMI Ophthalmology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OPHTH 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022