Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Theology Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Theology The undergraduate program in Theology is designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills necessary for a reasoned reflection on their own values, faith, and tradition, as well as on the religious forces that shape our society and world. As a broad liberal arts discipline, theology encourages and guides inquiries into life's most meaningful issues from such diverse perspectives as ethics, biblical studies, history, psychology, social studies, philosophy, and comparative religion. There is a strong, although not exclusive, emphasis on Christianity, especially as manifested in the Roman Catholic tradition. The major in Theology has proven to be excellent preparation for vocations requiring careful reasoning, close reading, clarity in written expression, the ability to make ethical decisions, and a broad understanding of cultures. It provides a solid background for graduate study in the humanities and for such professional schools as medicine, business, and law. For those wishing to pursue a career in ministry or religious education Theology is, of course, still a prerequisite. Long gone, however, is the time when Theology was considered the exclusive domain of seminarians and the religious. Many students now elect Theology as a second major to balance and to broaden their education and to provide perspective on such first majors as biology, political science, or English literature. Students who elect to major or minor in Theology are encouraged to meet with the Department's Director of Undergraduate Studies to review their opportunities as well as pertinent departmental policies. The Theology Department boasts a large, internationally known faculty with expertise in areas as diverse as systematic theology, ethics, biblical studies, church history, liturgy, psychology of religion, and the dialogue between Christianity and other major religious traditions. A prestigious graduate program leads to the Ph.D. degree in several specialties. Nevertheless, the Department as a whole remains fully committed to the teaching of undergraduates and to the education of Theology majors. Theology Courses Theology Faculty Theology Website Print Open All Close All Course Offerings Course Offerings The Department distinguishes four levels of course offerings: Level One/Core (THEO1000–1999)—either introductory or designed for the fulfillment of the University's basic Theology requirement Level Two (THEO2000–4999)—undergraduate, more specifically aimed at minors and majors Level Three (THEO5000–5999)—addressed to advanced undergraduates (usually majors) and graduate students who are more theologically proficient Graduate (THEO 6000–7999)—offered exclusively for professionally academic theological formation Core Options Core Options The Core requirement in theology is six credit hours and may be fulfilled by either of the following options (A or B): A. Two 3-Credit Courses: One CT and one STT Students must take one Christian Theology (CT) course and one Sacred Texts and Traditions (STT) course. These need not be taken in any particular order and may even be taken in the same semester. Christian Theology (CT) Courses THEO1401 Engaging Catholicism THEO1402 God, Self, and Society Sacred Texts and Traditions (STT) Courses THEO1420 The Everlasting Covenant: The Hebrew Bible THEO1421 Inscribing the Word: The New Testament THEO1422 The Sacred Page: The Bible THEO1430 Buddhism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1431 Islam and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1432 Hinduism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1433 Chinese Religions and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1434 Judaism and Christianity in Dialogue Enduring Questions courses offered by the Theology Department (THEO17XX) will be identified as counting towards the Christian Theology (CT) or Sacred Text and Traditions (STT) requirement. Note: a student may not fulfill their Theology Core with two Enduring Questions courses. B. 12 Credit Options A student may take either of these course sequences to fulfill the Theology requirement: THEO/PHIL1088–1089 Person and Social Responsibility I and II (for PULSE Program students only) THEO/PHIL1090–1091 Perspectives on Western Culture I and II (for first-year students only) Major Requirements Major Requirements The major curriculum in Theology incorporates both structure and flexibility, intensive focus and breadth of scope. Majors take a combination of essential, required courses and electives from within and outside the Department of Theology. Programs are designed in consultation with the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Theology majors must choose one of the following curricular tracks: I. The Standard Theology Major (30 hours) is relatively unstructured and flexible, easily tailored to various motivations and goals for theological study and adaptable to the diverse paths and timetables by which students come to the major. It offers a theological enrichment and complement to a student’s BC education, through the following requirements: Theology Core (2 courses; 6 credits)II. The Honors Theology Major (36 hours) is designed for Theology as a first major, especially for students with an interest in further study of theology or related fields. Both rigorous and comprehensive, it provides an integrated introduction to the discipline and a broad foundation for further study. With its comprehensive distribution requirements across all areas, it exposes students to the entire breadth of the theological discipline. With increased credit hours and an optional thesis, it is capacious enough for students to focus on a particular sub-discipline in which to pursue and demonstrate theological excellence. As an Honors Program it would also allow students to be recognized for their achievement, both within and outside the university, thus facilitating admission to the next level of study. Students are expected to maintain a 3.5 GPA within the major. Requirements: 1. Theology Core (2 courses; 6 credits): Students must fulfill their normal Theology Core requirements with either (A or B): A. One semester of Christian Theology: THEO1401 Engaging Catholicism THEO1402 God, Self, and Society CT-themed Enduring Questions/Complex Problems And one semester of Sacred Texts and Traditions from the following: THEO1430 Buddhism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1431 Islam and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1432 Hinduism and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1433 Chinese Religions and Christianity in Dialogue THEO1434 Judaism and Christianity in Dialogue STT-themed Enduring Questions/Complex Problems (NOTE: Honors Majors may not fulfill their STT core requirement with THEO1420, THEO1421, or THEO1422) B. Perspectives or PULSE. 2. Scripture Sequence (2 courses; 6 credits): Students must complete both THEO1420 The Everlasting Covenant: The Hebrew Bible and THEO1421 Inscribing the Word: The New Testament. Alternatively, students may complete THEO1422 The Sacred Page and an additional Scripture elective (level II or above) with the undergraduate director’s approval. 3. Majors Course: THEO2001 Tradition and Traditions (1 course; 3 credits) 4. Majors Course: THEO2002 Trajectories in Contemporary Theology (1 course; 3 credits) 5. Honors Electives (6 courses; 18 credits), including an optional Honors Thesis (6 or 12 credits).* At least two of these electives should be level 3 or above. Students, with the guidance of their advisor, should make sure their program of study addresses each of the general subject areas (Bible, History, Systematics, Ethics, Comparative Theology) covered by the department's faculty *2 courses/6 credits from another discipline (including the first major) may also count toward the Standard Theology or Honors Theology majors, provided that they have sufficient theological relevance as determined by the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Minor Requirements (21 Hours) Minor Requirements (21 Hours) The Theology minor consists of the Theology Core requirement plus five 3-credit courses that are Level Two or above. Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors Information for First-Year Majors and Non-majors Theology is the academic discipline concerned with the realities that are the center of religious faith and with the traditions of belief and worship that inform the life of communities of faith. Historical, biblical, psychological, ethical, pastoral, comparative, philosophical, and doctrinal studies are all included within the scope of Theology at Boston College, which introduces the undergraduate to a mature, critical approach to religious knowledge and experience. There is a strong, but by no means exclusive, emphasis on Christianity, and more specifically, on the Roman Catholic tradition. The courses offered are grouped in four categories: (1) biblical, (2) historical, (3) ethical and social-scientific, and (4) comparative and systematic or doctrinal. All courses, particularly those taught at the Core level, aim at fulfilling certain goals: A liberal arts goal of fostering awareness of the religious roots and background of our culture—for example, by giving students a coherent view of religion and its development, a groundwork for moral decision, and an awareness of their own existence as religious persons A specifically theological goal of introducing the materials and methods of one or more approaches to the academic study of religious faith and tradition A religious or confessional goal, explicit in some—though not all—courses, of exploring a particular tradition from the inside, healing negative encounters with religion, inviting commitment and belief, and the like. Information for Study Abroad Information for Study Abroad There are no formal requirements stated by the Theology Department, but it is presumed that students will have completed at least one Core course (or 3 credits of the Core) before going abroad. The Department will allow 6 credits or two courses taken abroad to count toward major credit. A maximum of one Core course (3 credits) may be taken abroad. The international programs at the University of Durham and Oxford University are both recommended by the Theology Department. All Theology majors should contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies while planning their study abroad program. Lonergan Center Lonergan Center Studies related to the work of the Jesuit theologian and philosopher Bernard Lonergan (1904–1984) have a focus in the Lonergan Center at Boston College. The Center houses a growing collection of Lonergan's published and unpublished writings as well as secondary materials and reference works, and it also serves as a seminar and meeting room. Kerry Cronin is the Associate Director of the Lonergan Center, which is located on the fourth level of Bapst Library and is open during regular hours as posted. Information about the Center or the Lonergan Institute is available at bc.edu/lonergan. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College