Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science in Business (MSM) Learn the Landscape of Business Markets and Top Leadership Skills Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Business Department(s) Management 1-2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. An In-Depth Look at Management Concepts The Master of Science in Management program provides you with a hands-on learning environment where you can enrich your managerial knowledge and skills in various areas, including problem solving, critical thinking, interpersonal connections and presentation skills. Throughout your coursework, gain insights from business leaders — from renowned professors to managers at top companies around the region. Plus, your cohort offers the opportunity to collaborate with individuals from various disciplines, backgrounds and industries which broadens your business perspectives. Upon graduation, you’ll have a clear understanding of how businesses operate and have the resources needed to succeed. Choose from four tracks available and ensure that your studies align with your personal and professional aspirations. Each track combines core graduate management courses with specialty courses in a specific business function area. Professional MSM Business Analytics Track Offers a blend of management, statistics and data-driven decision-making techniques, creating the bridge between data collection and application for business problems and decisions. Professional MSM Entrepreneurship Track Emphasizes the essential startup processes, experiential learning and personalized coaching that supports students’ efforts to develop their own startup. Professional MSM Human Resources Track A certified SHRM HR curriculum program that offers a blend of advanced coursework in management and human resources for professionals seeking to advance their career in human resources. MSM Integrated Business Track Offers non-business graduates the core management and business functional skills necessary to succeed in today’s business environment. Request Information Highlights Florida is one of the top 5 states for highest employment levels in management occupations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Management occupations are projected to see an employment growth of 9 percent through 2030. The median annual wage for management occupations is $109,000. Master of Management Application Deadlines Application deadlines vary by track. Please visit the UCF College of Business for additional details and requirements. Get Your Master’s in Management Course Overview Mathematical Tools for Business Analytics Introduction to the most used mathematical tools in business analytics, specifically, different and integral calculus as well as linear algebra. Business Intelligence Study of the sources, acquisition, warehousing, analysis, and application of data pertaining to business decision-making in the firm. Applied Research Tools Development of applied qualitative and quantitative research skills for collecting, analyzing and reporting data to organizations. Management Skills You'll Learn Lead and motivate teams to make decisions that align with business objectives Gain a versatile skill set that can be applied to various leadership roles within different organizations Explore the landscape of business markets and create ways in which you can inspire change Learn to adapt to ever-evolving business needs in a variety of industries Get an introduction to management concepts including, budgeting and forecasting, project management, and marketing Career Opportunities Business Analyst Management Consulting Customer Service/Customer Relations General Management Marketing Operations Project Management Sales/Development Staffing/Recruitment Admission Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. The Master of Management offers several options. Applicants must choose a track in this program. Track(s) may have different requirements. Request Information To apply, submit the general graduate admissions requirements, as well as the following items by the deadline: A bachelor’s degree in a non-business discipline from an accredited institution. Official transcripts Goal statement that covers required questions Updated resume Request Information College of Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Student Life Student Research Week: The Greater Good Ahead of Selfish Interests is Focus of Marketing Study Ph.D. student looks at how self-compassion creates longer lasting positive effects for donors in addition to fostering high prosocial behavior. Degree Search College of Business programs Masters Management (MSM) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Management (MSM) program offered at UCF. Loading... University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida