Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Political Economy Project Contact Us Political.Economy.Project@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Project People Back to Top Nav Programs Postdoctoral Fellowship Student Dinners Current Academic Year Past Dinners Workshops Reading Groups Student Fellowship Back to Top Nav Courses News & Events Search form Search this site CloseGo Search The Civil War Draft: Battleground of Citizenship? In 1863, the Union instated the first-ever Federal draft. A massive bureaucratic undertaking, the draft transformed the relationship of Americans to the state and to one another, laying bare social divisions as wealthy draftees paid “commutation fees” to avoid serving, or hired substitutes to serve instead. Colleen Boggs (Parents Distinguished Research Professor) explores this fascinating story, drawing on her recent book Patriotism by Proxy (Oxford, 2020). Tuesday May 17 at 4:30 in Moore Hall B03. Are We a Nation? America After Nationalism Monday, May 23, at 4 pm in Silsby 113. What does being an American mean after the age of nationalism? Samuel Goldman will discuss his recent book on this topic in an event co-sponsored with the Daniel Webster Project. Goldman (Political Science, George Washington University) is executive director of the John L. Loeb, Jr. Institute for Religious Freedom and director of the Politics and Values Program. The event is free and open to the public, and is co-sponsored by the Daniel Webster Project and the Political Economy Project. The PEP's Sestercentennial Volume is now here! Dartmouth and the World: Religion and Political Economy @1769, a volume of essays growing out of a conference hosted by the Political Economy Project in September 2019 to commemorate the 250th anniversary of the College's founding, is now available for purchase. See more information here<https://rowman.com/ISBN/9781683933175/Dartmouth-and-the-World-Religion-a.... Besides the buying options listed on the press website, there is a discount of 50% off the hardcover list price available to any member of the Dartmouth community—students, faculty, staff, alumni, or simply friends of Dartmouth College. Just drop an email to our administrator Kelly Palmer (Kelly.L.Palmer@dartmouth.edu<mailto:Kelly.L.Palmer@dartmouth.edu> ) to place your order. Happy reading! Meir Kohn (Economics) on Commerce, Predation and Development Prof. Kohn will explore the true origins of modern prosperity. Standard economic theory is not very useful for understanding economic development or for guiding development policy. Prof. Kohn will argue that his new commerce-predation theory provides a promising alternative. Monday, May 9 at 5 pm in Silsby 028. This Political Economy Project event is free and open to the public. French Election Aftermath On April 24, Emmanuel Macron became the first president in two decades to be re-elected, winning 58% of the vote against Marine Le Pen’s 41%. What does this election tell us about France today? What effect is it likely to have on France's relationships with Europe, the United States, or the world? Henry Clark (Political Economy Project) will offer a few thoughts and host a Q&A on these questions. Free and open to the public. Friday May 13 at 4:30 pm in Moore B03. PreviousNext About the Project The Political Economy Project explores the relationship between politics, economics, and ethics.learn more Our Faculty Learn more about the faculty affiliated with the Political Economy Project.learn more News & Events Learn more about what's happening in PEP, including information about upcoming events.learn more Main menu Dartmouth College Political Economy Project About About the Project People Programs Postdoctoral Fellowship Student Dinners Current Academic Year Past Dinners Workshops Reading Groups Student Fellowship Courses News & Events Admin Site Ribbon Footer People Henry C. Clark Senior Lecturer & Program Director Henry.C.Clark@Dartmouth.EDU 603-646-0994 Visit the Department People page. http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: HB: 6106 Email: Political.Economy.Project@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback