Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Athletic Training DAT You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Athletic Training DAT Apply Request More Info Athletic Training DAT Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Athletic Training The Doctor of Athletic Training is only open to currently certified athletic trainers. If you are interested in becoming an athletic trainer but you are not one yet, apply to our MS in Athletic Training program. If you are already a certified athletic trainer and are interested in conducting research, apply to our MS in Kinesiology with a concentration in Athletic Training. The online Doctor of Athletic Training (DAT) in Temple’s College of Public Health is designed for currently certified athletic trainers who want to further develop their clinical decision-making skills through training in advanced concepts and practice. Our students learn to survey and interpret current research literature and gain experience using evidence-based techniques to improve patient outcomes. The program includes a special emphasis on concussion and mild traumatic brain injury education. Students also learn to collaborate effectively with interprofessional healthcare teams, develop leadership and professionalism skills, and explore the role of athletic training in a public health model. The online DAT program prioritizes faculty mentorship and extensive student collaboration. You will interact with faculty members and peers in live online class sessions and a variety of web-based activities. Students in the DAT program come from a wide range of personal and clinical backgrounds, races and ethnicities, which enriches discussion and exposes you to diverse perspectives and experiences. What sets apart our Doctorate of Athletic Training? Work with renowned faculty members: Temple has been a leader in athletic training education for more than 30 years, and our faculty are nationally recognized experts in concussion, evidence-based practice and shoulder injury. Take advantage of unparalleled flexibility: Temple’s DAT is one of the only programs of its kind in the nation, and is the only one that is offered 100 percent online—allowing practicing athletic trainers to balance coursework with personal and professional demands. Expand your career options: Students can earn the Teaching in Higher Education Certificate while completing the DAT program, preparing them for instructional roles in universities and colleges. Online Program Format This program is offered entirely online with a combination of synchronous components (web conference-based, live class discussions; chat rooms; and video meetings) and asynchronous components (discussion boards and other assignments that students complete on their own time). All DAT core classes meet online on Monday nights from 7 to 9 p.m. Eastern time. This format fosters collaboration and networking among students, faculty and guest speakers. Students will complete the 36-credit program in two years, including summers. Class formats include both six- and 15-week sessions. See a full list of program courses. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this online Doctor of Athletic Training program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Online tuition: $1,000 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. Doctoral students can seek program support from the program director: Jamie Mansell Director of Athletic Training Education Phone: 215-204-2153 Email: jmansell@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees MS in Neuromotor Science PhD in Neuromotor Science Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Temple University is proud to be a founding member of the Association for Athletic Training Education. HP-ATHT-DAT Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Athletic Training DAT Accreditation Admissions Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info