Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music About Us Admissions Academics Ensembles Faculty Support Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Majors and Programs Composition Commercial Music Conducting Jazz Studies Music Business Music Education Music History Pedagogy Performance BrassKeyboardPercussionStringsVocal Arts Woodwinds Recording Technology Vocology Certificate Take Action Apply Now Alumni Support Us Scheidt Family Music Center Contact Us Follow the School of Music Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedInVimeo Home Music Academics Music Education Inspire a love of music within students as you shape future artists as a music educator. Train to teach from the moment you step on campus. Our well-respected music education curriculum at Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music is based on musicianship, teaching and research, and is taught by the finest faculty in the field. Blending cutting-edge research insights and practical teaching techniques, students are encouraged to seek, evaluate, and appropriately implement proven strategies and new innovations in music teaching and learning. Our NASM-accredited program offers a variety of teaching techniques, learning structures, and academic environments that prepare you to earn licensure to teach elementary and secondary music in the areas of choral, instrumental/ band or general music. The School of Music enjoys partnerships with the University of Memphis's University Schools network, municipal school districts throughout the region, and Memphis-Shelby County Schools, Tennessee’s largest school district, to provide hands-on field experiences (preschool through secondary level) and a year-long residency (student teaching) internship. You will enjoy state-of-the-art music facilities, and work with a large and diverse community of faculty, students, and industry professionals. You’ll have the opportunity to attend numerous concerts, clinics, and master classes given by students, faculty, and visiting artists that will broaden your experience. Additionally, the University’s location allows limitless opportunities to plug into a vibrant music city. Admission + Audition Requirements Interested students should complete the University of Memphis application and apply to the School of Music. Music Education auditions are held to determine admission into School of Music programs and to award performance scholarships and graduate assistantships. All students who want to major or minor in music, or who seek a music scholarship must audition. What degrees do we offer? Bachelor of Music in Music Education, Choral For students planning to pursue careers as music teachers or choral directors in elementary and secondary schools, this degree provides the pedagogical and musical training necessary for effective careers in education. Our Music Education - Choral degree program will blend theory and instruction with hands-on, immersive practices. Students develop their own creative talents while they learn how to educate the next generation. This degree program for aspiring choral educators includes an intensive, skill-oriented curriculum that empowers you to combine your passion with purpose. You’ll explore advanced choral and voice techniques, examine the latest in music and classroom technology, learn how to use assessment strategies and dive into educational psychology theories The program meets the Tennessee Department of Education’s requirements for K-12 music education certification. Scholarships are available. Outcomes: Music education students will demonstrate their commitment to teaching music in our diverse society to all people regardless of individual differences or abilities Music Education students will think, speak, and write clearly about music, both in a scholarly manner and at a level appropriate for PreK-12 music learners; Music Education students will develop a personal philosophy of teaching and learning that will serve as the foundation for an emerging career as a music educator Music Education students will demonstrate the ability to synthesize theoretical knowledge and practical skills in order to plan, teach, and assess music to PreK-12 students Music Education students will display attitudes and dispositions consistent with the professionalism expected from music educators Music Education students will synthesize through field experiences and residency the necessary content knowledge, pedagogical skills, and dispositions for successful music teaching in a variety of educational settings. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Music Education, Choral required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Bachelor of Music in Music Education, Instrumental For students planning to pursue careers as music teachers or band/ orchestral directors in elementary and secondary schools, this degree provides the pedagogical and musical training necessary for effective careers in education. Our Music Education - Instrumental degree program will blend theory and instruction with hands-on, immersive practices. Students develop their own creative talents while they learn how to educate the next generation. This degree program for aspiring music educators includes an intensive, skill-oriented curriculum that empowers you to combine your passion with purpose. You’ll explore advanced skills in playing, rehearsal pedagogy, selecting repertoire, and ensemble preparation. The program meets the Tennessee Department of Education’s requirements for K-12 music education certification. Scholarships are available. Outcomes: Music Education students will demonstrate their commitment to teaching music in our diverse society to all people regardless of individual differences or abilities; - think, speak, and write clearly about music, both in a scholarly manner and at a level appropriate for PreK-12 music learners; Music Education students will develop a personal philosophy of teaching and learning that will serve as the foundation for an emerging career as a music educator Music Education students will demonstrate the ability to synthesize theoretical knowledge and practical skills in order to plan, teach, and assess music to PreK-12 students Music Education students will display attitudes and dispositions consistent with the professionalism expected from music educators Music Education students will synthesize through field experiences and residency the necessary content knowledge, pedagogical skills, and dispositions for successful music teaching in a variety of educational settings. Map out your college experience! View Bachelor of Music in Music Education, Instrumental required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Music Education (In-person) Our Master of Arts in Teaching, in collaboration with the College of Education, allows students who have already earned a Bachelor's degree in music to earn their teaching licensure. Our Master's degrees are primarily designed for practicing music educators who wish to further their studies, refine their teaching approaches, and develop skills in research. You’ll explore innovative, advanced methodologies, educational best practices, teaching strategies, technologies, and research all within a major research university. Together with other dedicated and experienced educators, you will gain knowledge and skills related to topics that address issues in urban education, teaching students with special needs, employing cutting-edge technology in music classrooms and ensembles, and engaging the increasingly diverse student populations in American schools. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes: Music Education students will demonstrate their commitment to teaching music in our diverse society to all people regardless of individual differences or abilities. Music Education students will refine their personal philosophies of teaching and learning to reflect the changing landscape of contemporary music education and their own emerging identities as scholars and educators. Music Education students will demonstrate the ability to organize, interpret, synthesize, and evaluate knowledge in music and education. Music Education students will regularly reflect on the effectiveness of instruction and interactions with students, and use insights gained to improve teaching practice. Music Education students will demonstrate advanced skills in research methods and scholarly writing. Map out your master's program experience! View the Master of Music in Music Education sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Music Education (Online) The Master of Music in Music Education is a fully online program offered through UofM Global. Designed for working teachers, the program is structured to enhance public and private school music specialists' ability to teach music effectively to every child. The degree emphasizes fundamental knowledge of research techniques and scholarly writing standards required for understanding and investigating problems in music and education. In this degree program, you will be stimulated by current research in music to seek, evaluate, and appropriately implement current ideas and developments in teaching music. All courses are completely online (with one class requiring video-conference class discussions and lectures in the summer) and we also consider previous intensive professional development or training you may have completed which can be counted as experiential learning credit. There is no on-campus requirement unless you choose to participate in our summer Orff-Schulwerk certification program. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes: Music Education students will demonstrate their commitment to teaching music in our diverse society to all people regardless of individual differences or abilities. Music Education students will refine their personal philosophies of teaching and learning to reflect the changing landscape of contemporary music education and their own emerging identities as scholars and educators. Music Education students will demonstrate the ability to organize, interpret, synthesize, and evaluate knowledge in music and education. Music Education students will regularly reflect on the effectiveness of instruction and interactions with students, and use insights gained to improve teaching practice. Music Education students will demonstrate advanced skills in research methods and scholarly writing. Music Education students will independently design and carry out research projects and present results to both scholarly and practitioner audiences. Map out your masters program experience! View the Master of Music in Music Education sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Master of Music in Orff-Schulwerk Bring your professional experience back to the (online) classroom, through this bespoke program tailored to practicing music educators. The Orff-Schulwerk approach is designed to enhance the professional practice of music educators, augmenting practical experience with the updated theoretical knowledge and practical skills to plan and teach music, as well as assess musical aptitude, for PreK-12 students. Master of Music in Orff-Schulwerk features a broad range of courses that apply to your work with children using the Orff-Schulwerk approach to music education. By experiencing music through participants in their education. Through singing, rhythmic speech, body percussion and movement, children gain experience and develop instincts for making music in a joyful and accessible way. Our Master's degrees are designed to further develop practicing music educators who wish to further their studies, refine their teaching approaches, and develop skills in research. 60% of the coursework can be completed online. The Orff-Schulwerk program at Scheidt School of Music is a proud member of the American Orff-Schulwerk Association. The Rudi E. Scheidt School of Music offers Orff-Schulwerk teacher training courses, each summer, taught by nationally recognized Orff experts for levels 1, 2, and 3 that address topics such as curriculum design, and composition. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes: Orff-Schulwerk students will develop the professional experience to lead performance, improvisation, analysis and composition, with an emphasis on the 21st-century vision of teaching as a basis to encourage students to reach their fullest potential. Orff-Schulwerk students will master leading philosophies of active music education including music and movement skills, theory and pedagogy for grades K-8 to develop music programs adapted to the needs of their students Orff-Schulwerk students will exhibit creativity, collaboration, communication, and critical thinking to successfully instruct students through exploration and improvisation Map out your college experience! View the Master of Music in Orff-Schulwerk sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Master of Arts in Teaching in Music Education K-12 Our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT), in collaboration with the College of Education, allows students who have already earned a bachelor's degree in music to earn their teaching licensure. Our master's degrees are primarily designed for practicing music educators who wish to further their studies, refine their teaching approaches, and develop skills in research. The MAT program, administered by the College of Education, is specifically for those who have a bachelor's degree in music but need licensure in Tennessee. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes: Music Education students will demonstrate their commitment to teaching music in our diverse society to all people regardless of individual differences or abilities; Music Education students will refine their personal philosophies of teaching and learning to reflect the changing landscape of contemporary music education and their own emerging identities as scholars and educators; Music Education students will demonstrate the ability to organize, interpret, synthesize, and evaluate knowledge in music and education; Music Education students will regularly reflect on the effectiveness of instruction and interactions with students, and use insights gained to improve teaching practice; Music Education students will demonstrate advanced skills in research methods and scholarly writing; Music Education students will independently design and carry out research projects and present results to both scholarly and practitioner audiences. Map out your master's program experience! View Master of Arts in Teaching in Music Education for required courses for degree completion. APPLY NOW > Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education As the only university in Tennessee to offer a Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education, our program is focused on encouraging each doctoral student to develop to their fullest capacity through individual research projects, independent studies with music education faculty members, presentations at professional conferences, and publications in music education research journals. You will encounter a stimulating curriculum that is relevant to your career aspirations, taught by faculty who are on the cutting edge of best-practice pedagogy, research, scholarship, and creative activity. Benefiting from the University’s Carnegie R1 Institution classification, you are able to pursue a choice of research activities or advanced creative work that will enable you to lead music education to new heights. Graduate assistantships and scholarships are available but highly competitive. Outcomes: Music Education students will conduct a research project on a foundational area of music education showing in-depth knowledge and understanding of the topic of music education/teaching. Music Education students will develop and present a research project on a foundational area of music education showing in-depth knowledge and understanding of the topic of music education/teaching. Music Education students will orally defend their dissertation study after presenting the final paper to the doctoral committee. Map out your doctoral experience! View the Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education sample degree plan. APPLY NOW > Student + Alumni Success Jonathan Schallert (PhD '20) University of Memphis 2020 Graduate Assistant Meritorious Teaching Award recipient Ellen Koziel (PhD '19) Women's Chorus Director, Rhodes College I Tennessee Music Education Association Hall of Fame 2017 inductee. Cordara Harper (PhD In progress) presented his research on William Grant Still and Black resistance in Troubled Island at the American Musicological Society Southeastern Chapter’s fall 2020 meeting. Dante Webb (MM '18) Choir Director, Southwind High School, Memphis, TN I Assistant Director of Choral Activities, Coahoma Community College, Clarksdale, MS Molly Wilkens-Reed (BM '16) Instructor of Viola; Director of the Virginia Tech String Project, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA Jeffrey Murdock (PhD '15) Associate Professor of Music, Vocal Area Coordinator, Associate Director of Choral Activities, University of Arkansas I 2021 GRAMMY Music Educator of the Year Mark Bonner Jr. (BM '13) Cleveland Institute of Music 2021 Future of Music Faculty Fellowship recipient Jeffery Mayo (BM '12) Tennessee Music Education Association’s 2017 Outstanding Young Music Educator Award I Band Director, Brighton Middle School; Assistant Band Director, Brighton High School, Brighton, TN Franklin Willis (BM '09) Country Music Association’s 2019 Music Teacher of Excellence Award recipient Faculty click here > Ensembles click here > Scholarships click here > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.