Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Meet the UW Admission Counselors We're in your neighborhood! The University of Wyoming is located in the heart of the Mountain West in beautiful Laramie. We have admission counselors who are ready and eager to help you learn more about UW! Are you an international student? If you are a student seeking admission information from outside the United States, please contact our International Students & Scholars team for further assistance. Thank you for your interest in UW! Adrienne Loveland Assistant Director Recruiting Territories: Colorado Counties: Adams, Arapahoe, Broomfield, Denver, Clear Creek, Douglas, El Paso, Elbert, Jefferson, Park, Pitkin, Teller Hawaii | Kentucky | Ohio | Oregon | Tennessee | Virginia | Washington | West Virginia Favorite part about UW: My favorite thing about the University of Wyoming is the love and loyalty our students, staff/faculty, alumni and community have for this absolutely fantastic school. No matter where you are in the world wearing the brown and gold Steamboat, someone will say “Go Pokes” and you have an instant connection unlike any other. The bond amongst the UW family is truly a treasured one! Book an appointment with Adrienne Phone: (720) 946-9678 Email: weisz@uwyo.edu Alicia Cole Associate Director of Admissions - Student Recruitment Recruiting Territories: Alabama | Arkansas | Florida | Georgia | Louisiana | Mississippi | North Carolina | South Carolina Favorite part about UW: My favorite part about the University of Wyoming is Prexy's pasture. When you step on Prexy's you can feel the heartbeat of campus and that is where I fell in love with UW. The big boulders and spruce trees on Prexy's make you feel that you are walking in a forest vs a college campus. No other college campus is like the University of Wyoming! Book an appointment with Alicia Phone: (307) 766-3796 Email: ajohn149@uwyo.edu Amy Schmidt Recruitment and Enrollment Specialist Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Community Colleges: Central Wyoming College (Riverton) Gillette College Sheridan College Favorite part about UW: The University of Wyoming provides an environment to welcome every student and offers them a personal educational experience that is second to none. Book an appointment with Amy Phone: (307) 856-8651 Email: aschmid8@uwyo.edu Bailey Butcher Admissions Representative Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Bighorn, Laramie, Park, Washakie Colorado Counties: Alamosa, Archuleta, Baca, Bent, Chaffee, Conejos, Costilla, Crowley, Custer, Delta, Dolores, Eagle, Fremont, Garfield, Gilpin, Grand, Hinsdale, Huerfano, Jackson, Kiowa, La Plata, Las Animas, Mesa, Mineral, Moffat, Montezuma, Montrose, Otero, Ouray, Pueblo, Prowers, Rio Blanco, Rio Grande, Routt, Saguache, San Juan, San Miguel, Summit Alaska | Idaho | Montana | Utah Favorite part about UW: My favorite thing about the University of Wyoming is the wholesome academic community that wants to see all students succeed. Here at UW, you will meet students from all around the world who are proud to be a cowboy or cowgirl, and it shows on our student campus. Laramie truly puts you in a spot to get connected and has new adventures around every corner. Not only will you have a great education with hands-on experience, but you will also make connections and relationships that will allow you to push outside your comfort zone and grow as an individual. Book an appointment with Bailey Phone: (307) 766-3862 Email: bbutche2@uwyo.edu Coming Soon! Admissions Representative Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Campbell, Converse, Crook, Fremont (including Fort Washakie), Goshen, Hot Springs, Niobrara, Platte, Weston Illinois | Indiana | Iowa | Nebraska Kade Russow Admissions Representative Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Albany, Lincoln, Sublette, Teton, Uinta Colorado Counties: Boulder, Larimer Michigan | Minnesota | North Dakota | South Dakota | Wisconsin Favorite part about UW: My favorite thing about the University of Wyoming is the opportunity students have to forge their own college experience. The people at UW truly make the difference! Laramie is also the perfect place to enjoy world-class outdoor opportunities, and the small college town feel of Laramie cannot be beaten. Book an appointment with Kade Phone: (307) 766-4953 Email: krussow1@uwyo.edu Lisa Harsh Recruitment and Enrollment Specialist Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Big Horn, Park, Washakie Wyoming Community College: Northwest College (Powell) Arizona | New Mexico | Nevada | Southern California Favorite part about UW: If you are an incoming first-year student, transfer student or are seeking distance-education opportunities, UW provides a world-class education with affordable tuition and large university opportunities in a small and safe community. UW students have the best of both worlds! Let me know how I can be of assistance. Go Pokes! Book an appointment with Lisa Phone: (307) 343-2077 Email: lisa.harsh@uwyo.edu Logan Wienholt Admissions Representative Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Campbell, Crook, Johnson, Sheridan, Weston Connecticut | Delaware | Maine | Maryland | Massachusetts | New Hampshire | New Jersey | New York | Pennsylvania | Rhode Island | Vermont | Northern California Favorite part about UW: My favorite part about the University of Wyoming is our amazing professors. Due to our small class sizes, our professors truly get to know their students and help them to unlock their full potential. Our Professors and Academic Advisors want to see you succeed and help you make connections, and facilitate experiences to prepare you for whatever your dreams and aspirations may be. Book an appointment with Logan Phone: (307) 766-3871 Email: lwienhol@uwyo.edu Richard Ward Recruitment and Enrollment Specialist Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Community Colleges: Eastern Wyoming Community College (Torrington) Laramie County Community College (Cheyenne) Favorite part about UW: Wyoming is so unique and special. It is the only four-year school in-state, and yet a degree from UW can take a person any place they want to go. Book an appointment with Richard Phone: (307) 772-7377 Email: rward1@uwyo.edu Troy Archuleta Recruitment and Enrollment Specialist Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Community College: Casper College Laramie County Community College (Cheyenne) Western Wyoming Community College (Rock Springs) Favorite part about UW: The University of Wyoming provides a world-class education to students from all 50 states and over 90 different countries. The diversity on our campus enhances learning opportunities for students, faculty, and staff. Our welcoming and safe community is anchored by the outstanding campus and research facilities of our land-grant institution. Book an appointment with Troy Phone: (307) 382-1817 Email: tarchule@uwyo.edu Tanner McClure Admissions Representative Recruiting Territories: Wyoming Counties: Sweetwater, Carbon, Natrona Colorado Counties: Cheyenne, Kit Caron, Lincoln, Logan, Morgan, Phillips, Sedgwick, Washington, Weld, Yuma Kansas | Oklahoma | Missouri | Texas Favorite part about UW: The University of Wyoming provides countless opportunities for students to push themselves and get out of their comfort zone. With our close proximity to so many outdoor spaces and our top-notch outdoor programs, we have the ability to help students experience the great outdoors. The community surrounding the University is also second to none. Very rarely will you find such a close-knit group of people who care so much about the same thing. My personal favorite thing about UW is coming into town on any game day, seeing the whole town in brown and gold, it’s something you just have to love. Book an appointment with Tanner Phone: (307) 766-4261 Email: tmcclur4@uwyo.edu We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility