Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Student guides Second-year advising guide As a second year student, you will continue to explore your academic and co-curricular interests. You will continue to explore majors, and may begin the major declaration and/or application process toward the end of this year. As you navigate your second year at UW, the second-year advising guide can help you continue to explore your interests, get involved, and set goals for your time at UW. Second-year advising guide Summer Summer Activities Make a short list of academic and co-curricular goals for your second year. Research activities outside the classroom you would like to be involved in or where you might take on more of a leadership role. Plan for how you may need to modify your study skills and time management going into your second year. Work a summer job or volunteer to further explore interests and test career hypotheses. Conduct an informational interview or shadow someone in a career field that you’re interested in. Questions to ask yourself What was the best part of my first year? What was the most challenging part of my first year? What are my goals for the summer? What types of careers or jobs interest me? How can I find someone in these fields to talk to? Where have I found my friendships and support network? How do I want to continue thosenrelationships? Are they helping me to be my best, or are they distracting me? And if I haven’t found those folks, where might I start to meet them, and get to know them? Questions to ask your adviser How can I best prepare to make the most out of my second year? Given my academic goals, does my fall schedule need any adjustment? If I wasn’t very involved last year and felt that I spent a lot of time studying and in the library. How can I better balance my academics and co-curricular activities? Autumn Autumn Activities Have a plan and timeline to declare a major. If your intended major is capacity constrained, create a parallel plan. Learn about the UW Satisfactory Progress Policy and how it might impact you. Attend informations sessions or visit/contact an adviser in your intended department(s). Explore new student organizations related to your major and/or career goals. Apply for an Undergraduate Community Based Internship (UCBI) for Winter and Spring Quarter. Attend the Study Abroad Fair and meet with a study abroad adviser. Update your resume, LinkedIn profile and Handshake profile with your recent/Summer experiences. Questions to ask yourself Am I happy with my major choices? Can I articulate why I plan to choose a particular major? What part of my academics am I enjoying the most? What am I finding most challenging? What is my plan to take care of myself emotionally and physically this year, while also balancing my academics? What did I enjoy in my first year that I want to continue in my second year? What are my co-curricular goals for my second year? What do I hope to accomplish outside of the classroom? What new opportunities do I want to explore? Questions to ask your adviser Is my course and major preparation plan realistic and strategic? • How will the satisfactory progress policy impact me, if at all? • What are ways that I can achieve my goals, beyond just my major choice? • When should I start thinking about studying abroad? How should I think about incorporating it into my academic planning? Winter Winter activities Connect with faculty and advisers in your intended department(s). Reflect on how you can use your remaining general education course requirements and electives to enhance your UW education. Explore opportunities to serve as a mentor or be mentored. Consider applying for an on-campus job. Sign up to participate in the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Sign up for Career and Internship Center Workshops and Small Group Coaching. Reach out to a faculty member to talk with them about their interests and research. Questions to ask yourself How do I want to use my remaining general education requirements and electives? Do I want to learn something new and different? Explore another subject with a minor? Gain a new skill? How do my interests inside the classroom relate to activities I might want to be involved in outside the classroom? What am I doing well to maintain my physical, mental, and social well being? What adjustments do I want to make to help me to feel my best? Questions to ask your adviser Beyond my major related courses, what are the options for how I can use my remaining credits? What is the best way to connect with faculty and academic departments? What are options for co-curricular involvement? How can I start exploring my career interests? Spring Spring activities Declare and/or apply to your major or have a plan to declare your major within the next quarter or two. If not, work with your adviser on a pre-major extension plan. Solidify your plan for summer an consider options such as working, participating in research, or studying abroad. Participate or volunteer for the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Participate in an Alternative Spring Break Program. Attend the Job and Internship Fair and search for summer positions on Handshake. Apply to be matched with Alumni through the Huskies@Work Program to learn more about their career journeys and workplaces. Begin to think about your plans for the summer. Do you plan to work? Take coursework? Volunteer? Get involved in ASUW. Questions to ask yourself What have I learned in my second year about my academic interests? What has changed since my first year? Have I connected with my major department? What kinds of activities can I be involved in related to my academic interests? If I need to move to an alternate major because I was not admitted to my first choice, how can I connect this new major to my goals? Questions to ask your adviser If I need a pre-major extension, how do I get one? I was not admitted to my first choice major, how might I achieve my goals in a different major? How can I explore some of my interests through coursework, but outside of my major? What does my academic plan look like for the next couple of quarters (note: you will likely need to meet with a departmental adviser to work on this plan) Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA