Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Library News Library News Florida State University Libraries debuts new digital project hosting service Florida State University Libraries announces the launch of CreateFSU, a new web-hosting service for digital research projects. Read more about Florida State University Libraries debuts new digital project hosting service FSU Libraries chosen to participate in OpenStax’s Institutional Partner Program Florida State University Libraries will expand its efforts to increase awareness for the textbook affordability movement and promote the adoption of open educational resources (OER) through a new partnership with OpenStax. Read more about FSU Libraries chosen to participate in OpenStax’s Institutional Partner Program 2020 Florida Book Award Winners Announced With its 14th annual competition now complete, the Florida Book Awards has announced winners for books published in 2020. More than 100 eligible publications were submitted across the 11 categories of competition. Read more about 2020 Florida Book Award Winners Announced Florida State University Libraries debuts new open access publishing program Florida State University Libraries is launching FSU’s first open-access publishing program. Florida State Open Publishing (FSOP) provides the university’s faculty, students and staff with the digital publishing tools and support needed to produce peer-reviewed, open scholarly publications, educational resources and other digital research outputs. Created to address gaps in traditional scholarly publishing, FSOP aims to make FSU’s scholarly output more accessible, diverse and innovative. Read more about Florida State University Libraries debuts new open access publishing program FSU Libraries, School of Communication form partnership with West Tallahatchie School District (L to R) Davis Houck, Fannie Lou Hamer Professor of Rhetorical Studies, and Katie McCormick, associate dean for Special Collection and Archives. (FSU Libraries) Florida State University Libraries and the School of Communication have formed a partnership with the West Tallahatchie School District in Tallahatchie County Mississippi. Read more about FSU Libraries, School of Communication form partnership with West Tallahatchie School District FSU Libraries Publishes 2019 New Conversations FSU Libraries has published the 2019 New Conversations annual report and magazine. Read about the highlights of 2019, which include FSU Libraries “Big Deal”; the Heritage Museum’s unveiling of a new stained-glass window; partnerships with other Florida universities and interdisciplinary events and symposia; and more. Read more about FSU Libraries Publishes 2019 New Conversations FSU Libraries becomes a virtual hub for remote learning Florida State University Libraries provides a space where the university community gathers to study, access research materials and collaborate. Now, with classes being taught remotely through the end of the summer due to the COVID-19 pandemic, that central hub has become a virtual focal point and resource. Read more about FSU Libraries becomes a virtual hub for remote learning FSU Libraries' Virtual Zoom Backgrounds FSU Libraries virtual backgrounds are here to bring the Libraries to you. Great for Zoom meetings with colleauges, professors, or to virtually study with friends! To download backgrounds of Strozier Library, Dirac Science Library, pictures from our Heritage & University Archives collection, and more, visit: https://www.lib.fsu.edu/virtual-backgrounds. Read more about FSU Libraries' Virtual Zoom Backgrounds FSU professor establishes new Emmett Till Lecture and Archives Fund The work to remember Emmett Till will continue at Florida State University thanks to new funding established by one of the nation’s leading experts on the 1955 murder that helped launch the civil rights movement. Read more about FSU professor establishes new Emmett Till Lecture and Archives Fund Florida State University Libraries announces Alumni Award for Distinguished Writing winner Dr. Branko Milanovic, a Serbian-American economist best known for his work on income distribution and inequality has been selected as the recipient of this year’s Alumni Award for Distinguished Writing. Read more about Florida State University Libraries announces Alumni Award for Distinguished Writing winner Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 next › last » About Us Dean's Welcome Library Hours Staff Directory Departments Giving to the Libraries Visiting the Libraries Facts & Figures Values Advancement Board Collection Strategies Faculty Assembly & Committees About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!