Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Romance Languages and Literatures Home Undergraduate Language Programs French Major and Minor in French French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Major and Minor in French A French Studies major assures exceptional competence in French, allowing students to work extensively and closely with literary and cultural artifacts that language makes possible. Building on their linguistic proficiency consolidated in the language program, majors expand that proficiency to a wide variety of French texts. This training exercises and assures our students' ability to analyze texts and contexts, as well as to conceive, articulate, and defend an original idea. French Studies minors reap similar benefits, albeit to a lesser extent, by attaining linguistic proficiency and taking at least two 4000-level courses. Language Courses for the Major and Minor Students begin the program at the level most appropriate for their linguistic proficiency. Contact Prof. Andrea Javel (andrea.javel@bc.edu) for guidance about placement. French Studies majors and minors may begin their program with Conversation, Composition and Reading I (FREN2209) or II (FREN2210). Major Minor Major Requirements 30 Credits (10 three-credit courses), which must include: 12 credits (4 three-credit "foundation" courses) chosen from among the following categories:* FREN3303 French Writing Workshop FREN3305 Wordplay: From the Stage to the Page FREN3306 Narrative and Identity: The Story You Tell Yourself FREN3307 Great Books in French FREN3308 Building Fluency: Adv Lang Practice FREN3309 French Cultural Studies *Note that the specific titles of the courses that fall within these "foundation categories" change from year to year (though not the course numbers); however, students can only take one course in each category. 12 credits (4 advanced courses) in French language, literature, or culture at the 4000 level or above. 6 credits (2 elective courses) to be chosen among the following: FREN2209 and FREN2210 French Conversation, Composition and Reading I and II (as entry-level courses only) Additional courses in French Studies at the 3000 or 4000 level Related courses with departmental permission Notes and Conditions French Studies majors are required to enroll in at least one advanced course (4000 level or above) each semester of their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the ten-course requirement for the major. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the major. Maximum total transfer credit toward the major from study abroad: 15 credits (5 three-credit courses) for one year of study; 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the French Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in French; (2) of a sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of French-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. French Studies majors who transfer 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the major in the department. Students who do not study abroad may take up to two courses related to their major program of study outside the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, with departmental permission. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the French Studies section. Minor Requirements 18 Credits (6 three-credit courses), which must include: 6 credits (2 foundation courses) chosen from among the following categories:* FREN3303 French Writing Workshop FREN3305 Wordplay: From the Stage to the Page FREN3306 Narrative and Identity: The Story You Tell Yourself FREN3307 Great Books in French FREN3308 Building Fluency: Adv Lang Practice FREN3309 French Cultural Studies *Note that the specific titles of the courses that fall within these "foundation categories" change from year to year (though not the course numbers); however, students can only take one course in each category. 3 credits (1 advanced course) at the 4000 or 7000 level 9 credits (3 elective courses) to be chosen among the following: FREN2209 and FREN2210 French Composition, Conversation and Reading I and II (as entry level courses only) Additional Courses at the 3000 or 4000 level in French Notes and Conditions French Studies minors must enroll in at least one advanced course (4000 level and above) during their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the six-course requirement for the minor. One-credit practicum courses do not count for the minor. Maximum total transfer credit toward a minor from study abroad: 9 credits (3 approved three-credit courses) for one year of study; 6 credits (2 approved three-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the French Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in French; (2) of a sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of French-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. French Studies minors who transfer 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the minor in the department. All courses for the French minor will normally be in French, though one relevant course taught in English may be counted toward the minor with permission from the French Section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate studies in consultation with the French section. Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College