Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Academics Postbac Premed Program Glide Year Master’s Programs Glide Year Master’s Programs During the glide year, some Postbac Premed students wish to take on an additional degree or certificate program prior to enrolling in medical school. Many programs exist, but below are a few programs that have been of particular interest to Postbac Premed students. Columbia University Master of Bioethics Program The Combined Postbac Premed-M.S. Bioethics Program, offered in partnership with the Columbia University School of Professional Studies, allows highly-qualified students to enrich and diversify their premedical education prior to enrolling in medical school. Bioethics is an expanding discipline that brings together studies in law, philosophy, religion, economics, science, and history. It seeks to confront the challenges created by rapid changes in biotechnology and biomedicine, from end-of-life care to DNA sequencing to new reproductive technologies. For future healthcare providers, this program will provide a crucial and relevant foundation for the practice of medicine. Expand all Collapse all Curriculum Students will begin taking courses in the Bioethics program during the second year of the Postbac Premed Program while completing the premedical degree requirements. Six points of coursework in Bioethics, consisting of two of the core courses in the Bioethics program, are taken during the student’s second year of Postbac study. During the Glide Year, students take an additional 30 points toward the M.S. degree, consisting of four additional core courses and five electives. Students also research and write a master’s thesis during their glide year. Second Year (Sample Schedule) Fall Organic Chemistry I (3.5 points) Ogranic Chemistry Lab (1.5 points) Contemporary Biology I (3 points) Contemporary Biology Lab (3 points) Core: Philosophy of Bioethics (3 points) Spring Organic Chemistry II (3.5 points) Contemporary Biology II (3 points) Organic Chemistry Lab (1.5 points) Core: Introduction to Clinical Ethics (3 points) Summer Two Bioethics Electives* Take MCAT Begin medical school application process Third Year (Glide Year) (Sample Schedule) Fall Core: History of Bioethics (3 points) Core: Research Ethics (3 points) Bioethics Electives* Spring Core: Global Bioethics (3 points) Core: Law and Bioethics (3 points) Master's Thesis Workshop Master's Thesis (3 points) Bioethics Electives* Summer Complete required coursework towards M.S. in Bioethics. *Of the required five elective courses, one must be in the fields of law or policy, one in ethics, and one in social science methods. The two remaining electives may be taken in these or related areas, however students are strongly encouraged to take a course in genetics and, depending on their interest, a course in environmental science. These electives may also be taken during the summer. Advising Upon admission to the program, students are assigned to a faculty advisor in Bioethics. Students should meet regularly with this advisor as well as with their Postbac Premed advisor. Depending on a student's interest in the Master's Thesis capstone project, an additional thesis advisor may be selected. Admissions Admission to the Combined Postbac Premed-M.S. Bioethics Program is highly selective. Students in good standing and in their first year of coursework in the Postbac Program are eligible to apply for admission, but should meet with their Postbac Premed advisor to discuss their eligibility and consider whether they can manage the workload. Information sessions about the program are typically held in the fall term. For admissions and applications requirements, please visit the website. Application Deadlines Early Application Deadline: January 15 Final Application Deadline: May 15 Expand all Collapse all Columbia University Master of Public Health Program Overview The Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health allows highly-qualified Postbac Premed students to study for and receive a Master of Public Health (MPH) degree during the glide year by pursuing the General Public Health track within the Mailman Accelerated M.P.H. program. The General Public Health track offers students broader participation in the field of public health as well as formal training in the methods and substantive areas of public health; moreover, it provides a superb foundation for medical education. The General Public Health track also includes a practicum experience, which provides students with opportunities to apply their academic training within a work setting. Curriculum The structure of the one-year degree program includes five components, carefully timed and integrated, so that learning in one part of the program informs activities and assignments in another. Students begin the program by immersing themselves in the Mailman Core Curriculum, which offers grounding in the history and methods of public health, as well as foundational studies of biological and environmental determinants of health; social, behavioral, and structural determinants of health; methods for public health research and programming; and health systems. Rather than focus on a single discipline within public health, students in the General Public Health track draw their coursework from departments and certificate programs throughout the Mailman School. In addition, each student is expected to develop and demonstrate improved skills in a technical area, such as research design, program evaluation, health education, health program planning, or administration, as well as select from the School’s curriculum, in consultation with their academic advisor, those courses that help meet this objective. Advising Each student’s program is planned individually in consultation with a Mailman advisor. Admissions Eligibility To be eligible to apply for this program, Postbac Premed students must: have completed at least nine points of required premedical coursework, including Calculus (grade of B+ or higher), and have received no grade in premedical science coursework below a B. be in their Orgo/Bio Year have received a grade of B+ or better in a writing-intensive course; this course may have been completed either as an undergraduate or as a Postbac student. have a minimum of one year (two years preferred) of work experience in a health-related field. Application Requirements The following materials must be submitted as part of the required application: Required Application | SOPHAS Application Service Academic transcripts from undergraduate institution(s) Postbac Premed academic transcript Three letters of recommendation CV/Resume Date November, Orgo/Bio Year Activity Attend Accelerated M.P.H. Program information session Date January 15 Activity Application Deadline, Accelerated M.P.H. Program Date May Activity Complete Postbac Premed Program; Receive Certificate of Premedical Sciences Date May/June Activity Take the MCAT and submit medical school applications Date September, Glide Year Activity Matriculate into M.P.H. Program; Begin medical school interviews Date October, Following Glide Year Activity M.P.H. Degree Conferred Expand all Collapse all Columbia University Master of Science in Human Nutrition Overview The Institute of Human Nutrition, situated in the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University Irving Medical Center, offers highly qualified Postbac Premed students the opportunity to enrich and diversify their premedical education during a glide year prior to enrolling in medical school. During the one-year program, training in human nutrition will expand your understanding of the role of nutrition in human health and disease prevention. Through your coursework, you will study all aspects of human nutrition, including basic nutrition science, clinical nutrition, nutritional epidemiology, and public health nutrition. You will have the opportunity to focus your degree in one of these areas through your spring elective courses and your master’s thesis project. The MS program is committed not only to the promotion of knowledge about human nutrition, but to the professional and leadership development of their students. Elements to strengthen your writing and speaking skills are integrated throughout the program, and you will have the opportunity to take on leadership roles as a student representative. Curriculum The structure of the one-year MS degree program includes three semesters, a fall and a spring semester where you will focus full-time on coursework and part-time on your master’s thesis, and a shorter summer semester where you will focus on your master’s thesis full-time. All fall courses are required and provide a foundation of knowledge in the areas of basic nutrition science, clinical nutrition, nutritional epidemiology, and public health nutrition. Spring course material builds on the fall foundation, and includes a combination of required and elective courses. Course topics are carefully integrated to promote cross-sectional learning between the various disciplines of human nutrition. During the fall term, you are introduced to master’s thesis options and matched with a thesis mentor. To complete the program in one year, you are required to finish your thesis by the September following your enrollment year. If you are matriculating into medical school the fall after your glide year, you can arrange to complete your thesis component by mid-summer. Course Descriptions Master’s Thesis Information Glide Year (Sample Schedule) Fall Biochemical and Physiological Bases of Nutrition I (3 credits) Critical Readings of Biological and Clinical Literature (3 credits) Physiology and Nutrition Throughout the Lifecycle (3 credits) Introduction to Epidemiology for Nutrition (3 credits) Introduction to Public Health Nutrition (3 credits) Thesis Planning and Research Methods I (2 credits) Spring Biochemical and Physiological Bases of Nutrition II (3 credits) Integrative Nutrition and Pathophysiology (3 credits) Thesis Planning and Research Methods II (2 credits) Elective Courses (Students must take 5 credits worth of elective courses, which generally equates to two or three courses, which are selected in consolation with an advisor. Students may choose graduate-level courses in other Columbia University departments for their electives, as long as they are approved by the MS program director.) Summer Thesis Research (3 credits) Advising Upon matriculation, you will be assigned a faculty advisor who will help you with academic decisions such as elective course and thesis mentor selection. Throughout the year you will meet regularly with your advisor, individually and in small advising groups. Your faculty advisor and the MS program director will serve as your career advisor. You should continue to meet regularly with your Postbac Premed advisor. Admissions Admission to the Combined Postbac Premed-M.S. in Human Nutrition Program is highly selective. Students who are in good standing in the fall of their orgo/bio year are eligible to apply for admission to the MS program. If you are interested, meet with your Postbac Premed advisor to discuss your eligibility. The IHN admits students to their MS program on a rolling basis from December 1st – August 1st each year. For additional MS program prerequisite requirements and application details, visit the Institute of Human Nutrition MS Program Application Information webpage. In addition to their regularly-scheduled program webinars, the IHN holds information sessions for Columbia Postbac Premed students in the fall. We encourage you to attend these events if you are interested in this one-year MS in Human Nutrition program. Expand all Collapse all Columbia University Master of Science in Toxicology Overview Technological and scientific developments have been responsible for the creation of thousands of new compounds, many of which pose a threat to human health. The measurement and analysis of the harmful effects of chemical, biological, and physical agents on living organisms, particularly humans, defines the field of Toxicology. The Department of Environmental Health Sciences offers the Master of Science degree with a track in Toxicology. This Master of Toxicology program provides students with expertise and training in environmental exposure, regulation, and mitigation. In addition to rigorous coursework in toxicology, students gain conceptual and methodological foundations in biostatistics and epidemiology. Students learn critical thinking and analysis skills and gain valuable practical experience through their coursework, practicum, and their thesis research. A semester-long laboratory course provides students with hands-on experience in current toxicological methods. In addition to full-time academic faculty with internationally recognized expertise, several instructors are working professionals who bring real-world experience; enhancing the practical, career-oriented aspects of this Master's degree. Curriculum Required Courses (36 Credits): *Introduction to Public Health - Programming P6300 Environmental Health Sciences Core P6360 Analysis of Environmental Health Data P6370 Journal Club in Molecular Epidemiology and Toxicology P8306 Occupational and Environmental Hygiene P8307 Molecular Epidemiology P8308 Molecular Toxicology P8312 Principles of Toxicology P8313 Toxicokinetics P8320 Applied Environmental and Industrial Hygiene P8321 Introduction to Data Science for Environmental Health P8323 Laboratory Methods in Environmental Health Science P8325 Risk Assessment, Communication, and Management P8334 Computational Toxicology P9303 Applied Environmental Public Health Science P9361 Master's Essay Research I Program Requirements* FALL (16.5 Credits) P8308 Molecular Toxicology P8312 Principles of Toxicology P6300 Environmental Health Sciences P8307 Molecular Epidemiology P8306 Occupational and Environmental Hygiene P8325 Risk Assessment, Communication, and Management SPRING (15 Credits) P8320 Applied Environmental and Industrial Hygiene P8323 Laboratory Methods in Environmental Health Sciences P8321 Introduction to Data Science for Environmental Health P6360 Analysis of Environmental Health Data P6370 Journal Club in Molecular Epidemiology and Toxicology P8313 Toxicokinetics P8334 Computational Toxicology SUMMER (4.5 Credits) P9303 - Applied Environmental Public Health Science P9361 - Master's Essay Research I *This program can be completed on a part-time basis. For more information, please contact Nina Kulacki. Admissions Application Requirements The Toxicology track is designed to be completed in 12 months but can accommodate part-time students, who may take up to three years to complete the Master's program. Students in this program will complete: At least 36 credits of course work (listed below) A three-month Practicum (150-300 hrs) A Master’s Research thesis Prerequisites: Applicants may have an undergraduate degree in any field, but need to have some coursework in biology. Application Deadline: Due June 1 of each calendar year to begin studies the following fall Application Components: College transcript(s) GRE scores (Optional) A personal statement Three letters of reference Submission instructions can be found here. Advising Appointments Postbac Premed Program Office 403 Lewisohn Hall (212) 854-2881 [email protected] Hours Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close