COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Office of Innovation and New Ventures Section Menu Innovation and New Ventures Home College of Innovation and Design Center for Entrepreneurship Resources for Innovators Funding Opportunities Our Team Innovation & New Ventures Calendar Wichita State University is committed to strengthening Wichita’s innovation ecosystem through the creation of new high-value startups, developing a skilled workforce that remains in Kansas, and transforming regional industries. We are tinkerers, collaborators, and entrepreneurs, and we’re here to help. Contact Us To See How The Wichita State University Office of Innovation and New Ventures (I&NV) is housed under the Office of the President. The office is where academics and industry converge. The College of Innovation & Design and the Center for Entrepreneurship collaborate to deliver programming around innovation, education, venture creation, and making connections to support WSU and regional startups. ABOUT I&NV College of Innovation and Design Center for Entrepreneurship Funding Opportunities Shocker I-CORPS Program On-Campus Makerspace Shocker New Venture Competition Innovative Research Tech Transfer & Commercialization Women 4 Women Fund John See Innovation Award Resources for Innovators Meet Our Team BY THE NUMBERS We offer a variety of support structures, including interdisciplinary academics, mentorship, business planning, and financial investment. Latest News College of Innovation and Design A unique academic college facilitating interdisciplinary applied learning that is centered on innovation processes, such as design thinking and agile product management. We teach students how to recognize new creative opportunities. Our curriculum covers innovation and holistic sustainability strategies while enhancing student skillsets in creativity, emotional intelligence, critical thinking, decision-making, product development, leadership, and embracing change. Center for Entrepreneurship Striving to positively impact the university and grow Wichita’s economy by helping students, faculty and community entrepreneurs learn how to develop innovative ideas and guide them toward commercialization and venture creation. We forge strategic partnerships within the business community to work in concert with existing businesses creating sustainability. In these ways, we act as an essential educational and economic driver for Kansas. Contact the Office of Innovation and New Ventures Let's Chat 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©