Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home Quick Links Research Road Map Prepare/Submit AAA Prepare/Submit Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps What is a proposal? A proposal is a detailed request for funding prepared in accordance with the sponsor’s instructions. A sponsor can be a federal, state, local agency, foundation, association, corporation or other business entity. A proposal must comply with the sponsor requirements, as well as University of Miami’s policies. A proposal, is submitted on behalf of the University of Miami and upon submission, becomes an official record of the work the University of Miami proposes to do for the sponsor. Gift vs. Grant Often individuals receive money and have difficulty differentiating whether it is a gift or a grant. The criteria for determining whether funds are categorized as a gift or grant sometimes overlap and require evaluation based on a number of characteristics. Please see the Gift vs. Grant tool for more clarification. If in doubt, please contact ORA for review and disposition. What do I need to know? It is important to know the process and what is required to submit a proposal at the University of Miami. Faculty often work with department/center/institute staff who assist with proposal preparation. Staff in those offices act as liaisons with the Office of Research Administration. Please note the final review of your proposal and approval to submit is provided by the Office of Research Administration (ORA). You can reach out to your ORA Pre-Award contact person directly if you have any questions or need any information about your proposal. Applying to a Foundation The University of Miami has a central University office that helps foster relationships between the University of Miami and companies and private foundations. The Office of Corporate and Foundation Relations helps faculty and external funding partners connect and collaborate to advance mutual goals that align with the University’s research and teaching mission. Individuals submitting an application to a foundation should work collaboratively with both ORA and Foundation Relations. Plan for the Proposal While the Principal Investigator is responsible for preparing the proposal, a successful proposal requires consultation and collaboration with a wide variety of both internal and external parties. Once you have identified a suitable funding opportunity, read the Funding Opportunity Announcement (i.e, Program Announcement, Request for Proposal or Broad Agency Announcement) and sponsor instructions carefully to ensure that both you and the University of Miami meet its requirements. Contact the Office of Research Administration for clarification on anything that seems unclear. PI Eligibility & Exceptions. Eligibility to serve as a PI or Co-PI on externally-funded research projects is a privilege generally granted only to full-time faculty members at the University of Miami. This policy is intended to ensure that the intellectual direction of research and scholarship is explicitly recognized as the responsibility of the PI. Designation as a project PI confers primary responsibility for the scientific, technical, and fiscal direction of the project to that individual. This designation, once granted to a specific named PI, may not be delegated to any other faculty member or staff member. However, the University recognizes that there may be special situations for which it is acceptable to grant PI-ship to other individuals. Exceptions to the policy may be granted under special circumstances, and additional approvals are required. Collaborators and Co-Principal Investigators. Do you need addition expertise for a successful project? This support can come from collaborators, consultants, or co-principal investigator(s) from another institution, such as a subawardee? When anticipating UM subcontracting to another entity, please follow the processes listed on the Subcontracting to Another Entity page. Compliance. Will you be able to comply with regulatory requirements such as human subjects, animal care, recombinant DNA, etc. Conflict of Interest. Are there areas of possible conflict of interests? Have you completed the necessary training and financial disclosure? Cost Sharing. Are there cost sharing or matching requirements that require institutional commitment of funds? Effort. Will you have sufficient available effort to conduct the proposed project? Do you have sufficient staff with available effort? Export Control Compliance. Will the project involve technologies or equipment that will require a technology control plan and/or prior authorization from Department of State or Department of Commerce? Will your project involve travel to or project work in an embargoed or sanctioned country such as Cuba or Iran and require prior authorization from Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control? Facilities. Do you have sufficient access to facilities to conduct the proposed research? If not, will you be able to document a commitment to obtain the necessary facilities? Facilities & Administrative (F&A) Costs. Does the sponsor require an F&A rate different from the University's negotiated rate? Terms and Conditions. Does the sponsor have terms and conditions that the University can accept? Time. Is there sufficient time to prepare a strong proposal with the necessary collaborative agreements, regulatory approvals, budget, etc? The Principal Investigator should inform his/her department/college leadership, department finance/grant management staff, and his/her Office of Research Administration (ORA) Pre Award contact person of the intent to submit the proposal. This early notification is especially important in the following instances: Large, complex programs Multi-project programs, involving University departments and/or other institutions Unusual terms and conditions as outlined in the program announcement Limitations on the number of institutional applicants (Note: Limited applications are selected through a process in the Office of Research. See details in the Office of Research Limited Competitions page Protocols involving humans or animals that require approval by the appropriate review committee New initiatives involving significant resources requiring college/school/departmental or senior institutional approvals Initiatives requiring new space and/or renovations The scope of work includes effort outside the United States Named Principal Investigator is not full-time faculty member. Please view PI Eligibility and Exceptions Cost Sharing is proposed (except salary cap). F&A is being waived Familial Relationship IBISResearch is the University of Miami's Grants and Agreements management system. Various resources are available to assist administrators with using the IBISResearch system. Please visit the IBISResearch website to view resources for creating proposals, managing awards, agreements and more. The Office of Research Administration (ORA) appreciates the continued partnership with the UM research community to facilitate and expedite the processing of your externally sponsored applications. UM has implemented initiatives to facilitate successful collaborations and application submission: the ORA Application Deadline Policy the requirement to use IBISResearch for All Grants & Sponsored Agreements and the Grants Ancillary Review Matrix. The requirement to use IBISResearch for All Grants & Sponsored Agreements requires all National Institutes of Health (NIH) new, competing and supplemental applications be submitted electronically through the IBISResearch system. The Application Deadline Policy requires submission of ALL applications in advance of their deadline date. For ancillary review information, refer to the Grants Ancillary Review Matrix. Useful Links: NIH Grant Process Overview NIH: Grant Writing Tips NSF How to Prepare your Proposal NSF: A Guide to Proposal Writing University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices