Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Living in Princeton, N.J. Overview Dining Shopping Arts & Culture Outdoors Transit Overview Living in Princeton The charm of Princeton offers the best of both worlds. A community of approximately 30,000 residents who live in tree-lined neighborhoods, Princeton also enjoys a central New Jersey location and transit network that put it a quick train ride away from New York City and Philadelphia. Dining The quality and diversity of Princeton's restaurant scene is constantly on the rise. From noodle houses, sandwich shops and gourmet ice cream to farm-to-table fine dining, there are options for everyone. And Princeton's cosmopolitan community ensures a mix of Asian, Middle Eastern, Mediterranean, Latin American and other cuisines. You'll also find a seasonal farmers market that operates just steps from campus and, during the warm-weather months, a farmers market on the plaza outside Firestone Library. Independent Student Guide to Dining Regional Visitors Bureau Dining Guide Princeton Online Dining Guide In a Student's Words: The Farmers Market Shopping Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Downtown Princeton features a wide variety of retail outlets — everything from thrift shops and fashion boutiques to book stores and a renowned record exchange, all surrounding campus. Free transit shuttles also connect students with larger grocery stores and retail centers in and around Princeton. Learn More Arts & Culture Photo by Matt Pilsner For arts lovers, the McCarter Theatre Center, winner of a Tony Award for the best regional theater in the country, is a campus treasure within easy walking distance for students. A few streets over is Morven Museum and Garden, which dates back more than 200 years and houses a distinctive collection of fine and decorative arts. Live music acts perform in restaurants, pubs and coffee houses throughout town, and the Princeton Garden Theatre shows the latest major motion pictures as well as classic Hollywood and foreign language films. Outdoors Photo by John Jameson, Office of Communications With easy access to parks, waterways and trails, Princetonians are found exploring the outdoors all year round. Students enjoy convenient jogging trails that line the Delaware & Raritan Canal, canoeing on Lake Carnegie, and biking and hiking on trails throughout the region. The beaches of the Jersey Shore and Pennsylvania's ski mountains are also just a short road trip away. Seven Parks Within a Mile of Campus Transit TigerTransit shuttles and NJ Transit's local bus routes provide transportation throughout the Princeton campus and surrounding communities. BikeShares and CarShares allow for easy day trips. A train known locally as “The Dinky” connects campus (via the Princeton Station at Alexander Street) to Princeton Junction, where northbound NJ TRANSIT trains provide direct service to New York City and Newark Liberty International Airport. Southbound trains provide a transfer to the Philadelphia-bound SEPTA regional rail Trenton Line. Amtrak trains connect Princeton Junction to Washington, D.C., Boston and the broader region. One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice