Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » Licensees Set Navigation title in component Code of Conduct Licensees The University of Cincinnati has partnered with over 250 licensed vendors. These vendors produce just about any product imaginable, and distribute these products across the region. For a complete list of our licensees along with a list of licensees by product category, please click on the links below. You can also find information below regarding how to become licensed with the University of Cincinnati. Licensees in Alphabetical Order Licensees by Product Category Interested in Becoming Licensed? Any business that uses the university's name, trademarks, images, or other indicia in the course of trading and/or in promotion of its business will require a license. The license, and rights granted, will depend upon whether the business is a sponsor, a licensee, a vendor of the university or other and dependent upon the proposed use. If you would like to become licensed with the University of Cincinnati, you will need to apply for a license through UC's licensing agency, the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). CLC is responsible for administering the licensing program, including processing applications, collecting royalties, and enforcing proper usage. Please click on the tabs below to find out more information about CLC and how to become licensed with UC. If you have a question as to whether or not you may use the University’s name or trademarks in association with your business, which is not answered on this website, please contact the University's Trademarks & Licensing Office. Approved Internal Vendors All products bearing the University of Cincinnati's brand must be purchased from companies licensed by the University of Cincinnati. The office of Trademarks & Licensing and Central Purchasing together manage licenses to vendors that produce products for student organizations and University departments. If your organization or department is using University funds to purchase University branded products, below is the list of approved vendors. If you are not using University funds, you may consider using any of the University's licensed vendors (linked above). Associated Premium Lori Heiney 1870 Summit Rd. Cincinnati, OH 45237 Phone: (513) 679-4444 Email: lheiney@associatedpremium.com Consolidus Amanda Wishnek & Denise Cline 526 S. Main St. Akron, OH 44311 Phone: (330) 319-7204 Email: service@consolidusshop.com Munoz Brandz Glen Armstrong 8919 Rossash Rd. Cincinnati, OH 45236 Phone: (513) 744-4049 Email: glen@munozbrandz.com About CLC right arrow down arrow The Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC), is the nation’s leading collegiate licensing and marketing representative. Formed in 1981, CLC assists collegiate licensors in protecting and controlling the use of their logos through trademark licensing. CLC proudly represents the nation’s top colleges, universities, athletic conferences, bowls, the NCAA, the College Football Playoff, the Heisman Trophy, and other top collegiate brands. Based in Atlanta, CLC provides its member institutions the expertise, resources, and experience necessary to maximize licensing revenue potential through the power of consolidation. Types of Licensing Agreements right arrow down arrow The University of Cincinnati has several types of licensing agreements. The Trademarks & Licensing Office will aid individuals, companies, departments, and organizations in securing the proper agreement and forms. UC’s agreements include: standard, restricted, and local. Standard Agreement right arrow down arrow For production of emblematic merchandise to be sold by an individual or company at retail Restricted Agreement right arrow down arrow For internal, campus suppliers, whose products are sold to the institution for internal consumption only and cannot be resold or sold at retail Exempt from reporting royalties $100 annual administrative fee Advance fee waived Must complete the art approval/royalty waiver form Local Agreement right arrow down arrow For local companies and/or individuals Geographically confined to in-state or “local region” companies that intend to make products for resale Can hold licenses for 1-5 schools from the local area Short form application $50 annual administrative fee Report royalties per semester; annual advance fees required Ability to renew local agreements for multi-year terms based on performance and university approval License Application & Criteria right arrow down arrow You will need to create an account with CLC in order to apply for a license with UC. The process for applying a license includes: submitting license application, providing product samples, obtaining product insurance, submitting artwork, disclosing your supply chain, submitting artwork for review, etc. Please make sure you visit CLC's site if you have any questions regarding license criteria. Timeline & Costs right arrow down arrow The timeline can be anywhere from 4 to 15 weeks, depending on the license application type (for first-time applicants). The cost of the application will depend on the type of application you are applying for. Visit CLC's quick reference guide for information regarding costs. License Type Quick Reference right arrow down arrow CLC offers a quick reference guide that gives an overview of the application process, costs, and timeline. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top