Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact TigerXpress View your statements and pay fees online in TigerXpress. Cost of Attendance Estimator How much will your courses cost? Get an estimate online! PreviousNext Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Your go-to place for student fee information. Welcome to University & Student Business Services Questions for USBS? University & Student Business Services (USBS) is open in 115 Wilder Tower. We encourage students to make use of the various online options first, reserving face-to-face visits for those that do not have electronic access or have issues that cannot be resolved online to ensure safe distancing practices. Questions? Send an email to usbs@memphis.edu. College is worth every penny you invest in it. Your degree will open doors and opportunities that will change your life. So, keeping up with tuition and fees is important. By exploring the website of University & Student Business Services, you'll find your student fee information and general payment guidelines; and you can go to TigerXpress, where you can view your account detail, pay your fees and charges online, sign up for the Installment Payment Plan, and sign up for eRefunds (direct deposit) for fastest receipt of excess financial aid/scholarships. Visit us at University & Student Business Services for all your Campus (ID) Card needs. This card can be your key to good food and fun around campus. For more information on any of these topics, check out our site, or come see us at University & Student Business Services! The University & Student Business Services Office is committed to offering exceptional customer service, and collaborates with our other University offices such as the Financial Aid office, Registrar’s office, Housing, Dining and many academic departments to provide an exemplary student experience. Specific student account information is available for review through TigerXpress. For any additional questions, please email the University & Student Business Services Office at USBS@memphis.edu or call 901.678.2712 during the hours of 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Vision/Mission/Values Departmental Information Location: 115 Wilder Tower Memphis, TN 38152 Office Hours: Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Phone: 901.678.2712 | Fax: 901.678.0288 or 901.678.2772 | E-mail: usbs@memphis.edu University Cashiering Please use your Tiger Express (https://www.memphis.edu/usbs/loginchoice.php) to review your account and remit you electronic check or credit card payments. If you are a university department, please contact Brenda Butler at bbutler@memphis.edu to request an appointment between the hours of 8:00am and 4:30pm. Telephone Inquiries: 901.678.2712 Fax Inquiries: 901.678.0288 Customer Care Email: usbs@memphis.edu Campus Card – Identification Card Replacement Please use the following link to submit your Online Campus Card Replacement We are also located in 115 Wilder Tower for in person transactions Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. For all other questions please contact us via email at campuscard@memphis.edu No payment or other action shall waive or excuse the rights and responsibilities of the student or University, including, but not limited to, the University as Lessor and its right to evict the Lessee for failure to pay rent in a timely manner, or any other breach of the lease. Unpaid or late rental payment may result in holds being placed on University records, such as student’s grades, transcripts and diplomas, and on registration for future semesters. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.