Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information For Students Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keeping Our Classrooms Safe Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) has implemented adaptable, multilayered protocols to help keep COVID rates low in the University’s learning environments. These protocols will enable a safer return to campus for the entire community and reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. Watch the HUHS video on how we’re keeping our classrooms safe and what you can do to reduce your risk. For additional health and safety measures, review the Campus Checklist below. And for guidance specific to each School, visit the School & Program Information page. Campus checklist for students Get your COVID-19 vaccine and booster To reach the high levels of vaccination needed to protect our community, Harvard is requiring COVID vaccination for all Harvard community members and one COVID-19 booster for all eligible community members. This includes students. See the Vaccine and Booster Information page for more information. Verify your vaccination and booster You must submit proof of your vaccination and booster through the HUHS Patient Portal by the deadline that applies to you. Visit the University’s Verify Your Vaccination and Booster webpage to learn more about deadlines and how to submit your verification. Remember when submitting your booster verification, ensure you select “booster” from the drop-down menu. Student who have not verified their booster with HUHS will have an immunization hold placed on their account by the Registrar. The hold will be removed upon verifying vaccination status with HUHS. For more information, visit the HUHS immunization page. Due to each individual’s booster eligibility timeline, students will not have a registration hold placed on their account if they have not yet verified their booster with HUHS. But please get a booster as soon as you are eligible, and promptly submit your documentation to HUHS. Know when to test While Harvard is no longer requiring routine testing for COVID-19, all affiliates, including students, have the option of doing so if they wish, by taking a self-administered test and submitting it via Color. Anyone with symptoms or known exposure should also continue to test and follow HUHS guidance. See the Testing & Tracing page for more information on how often to get tested, how to set up your Color account, how to conduct your unobserved tests, where to drop off your test samples, and test results. Keep a mask handy Face coverings on campus are optional in all indoor and outdoor spaces on Harvard’s campuses. Schools and Central Administration Units may continue to require masking in certain settings as they deem appropriate, and may impose additional measures such as limitations on gatherings and increased frequency of testing in the case of greater rates of infection. Schools may grant discretion to individual faculty to require masking in their classrooms. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. The decision to wear a mask in settings where it is not required is a personal one, and it should be informed by the prevalence of cases in the community, your vaccination status, and your age/medical history. Masks continue to be highly effective in reducing risk of transmission regardless of vaccination status. For detailed mask guidance, including specifics for eating and drinking, classroom instruction, and when in residences, see EH&S’ Guidance for On-Campus Activity and General Use Face Covering Guidance. Understand protocols for the classroom Masking in classrooms is optional for students and faculty. Schools may grant discretion to individual faculty to require masking in their classrooms. If you feel the need to continue to wear a mask in the classroom for your own protection, or to protect someone close to you, you should do so. The decision to wear a mask in settings where it is not required is a personal one, and it should be informed by the prevalence of cases in the community, your vaccination status, and your age/medical history. Masks continue to be highly effective in reducing risk of transmission regardless of vaccination status. For detailed mask guidance for classroom instruction, see EH&S’ Guidance for On-Campus Activity and General Use Face Covering Guidance. Report symptoms, exposure, or positive non-Harvard COVID test Stay home if you feel sick. Use Crimson Clear to report if you have symptoms, have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, or have tested positive outside of the University’s testing program or HUHS. Understand your requirements if you’ve been exposed Read HUHS’ guidance if you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 to determine your risk and next steps. Watch the COVID-19 general safety training All students are expected to watch the COVID-19 General Safety Training to help understand best practices around COVID-19 when they return to campus. Stay informed of local guidance Each School and Unit has adopted different timelines and policies depending on their own considerations and needs. Visit the School & Program Information page for more details, and stay connected to your local leadership for updates. Keep Harvard healthy Remember, you can continue taking simple precautions, like practicing good hygiene, to greatly reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19. Visit the Health & Wellbeing page for advice on keeping Harvard healthy. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube