Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date February 8, 2021 2021-02-08 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects A $2.5 million federal grant will enable the research team to track vaccine rates and safety for Medicare beneficiaries, who face increased risk of severe illness from the coronavirus. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The National Institute on Aging has awarded a $2.5 million grant to a research team based at Brown University and Hebrew SeniorLife to partner with CVS Health to develop a massive, data-driven monitoring system that tracks the long-term safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccination for Medicare beneficiaries. The members of this group, who are age 65 and older and tend to have more diagnoses of Alzheimer’s disease, dementia and other disorders, are at greatest risk for severe illness from the coronavirus, the researchers say. “The goal is to leverage ‘big data’ to save lives,” said project leader Vincent Mor, a professor of health services, policy and practice at Brown’s School of Public Health. “With this project, we’re uniquely positioned to securely monitor more than 13 million CVS customers who are Medicare beneficiaries. We’ll be able to determine the prevalence of known adverse reactions to the vaccine and whether the vaccine protects them from coming down with COVID in the future.” The new two-year project is a supplement to a $54 million IMPACT Collaboratory grant awarded to Brown and Hebrew SeniorLife in 2019 — a nationwide effort to improve health care and quality of life for people living with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, as well as their caregivers. Mor said that despite the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on elderly adults, the population was largely underrepresented in clinical trials for the vaccine, given its quick development and authorization for emergency use. In addition, Mor said that adults of advanced age, especially those with Alzheimer’s and dementia, may face barriers to vaccination such as dependence on a caregiver for transportation. In order to ensure safe, effective, widespread immunization programs for communities around the country, there is a significant need for information about the effects of the vaccine on this vulnerable population. “This system will help us understand who gets vaccinated and who doesn’t,” Mor said. “It will also help us to determine the prevalence of known adverse reactions to the vaccine and learn how long and how well it protects the immunized against getting sick with COVID in the future.” Since January, CVS Health has been administering COVID-19 shots in some long-term care facilities and retail pharmacies around the country. Starting on Thursday, Feb. 11, the company, which operates the largest pharmacy chain in the U.S., will offer immunizations to eligible groups at 335 pharmacy locations in 11 states. As more vaccines become available, the immunization effort will expand to include additional stores and states. Mor said the project marks the first big data effort to combine vaccination and pharmacy records with Medicare claims. Merging the data will enable researchers to explore associations between vaccination rates and factors like race and ethnicity, the presence of diagnoses of Alzheimer’s disease, and health care system variables. The project builds on the mission of the Center for Long-Term Care Quality and Innovation, which will lead administration of the grant and is based at Brown’s School of Public Health. Ashish Jha, dean of the School of Public Health, said it’s an example of the center’s focus on partnering with innovators, including health care providers, to evaluate new practices and strengthen quality of patient care. “As a result of this partnership with CVS, we will be able to develop a better understanding of how the pandemic and vaccinations are affecting older Americans. We’ll be able to estimate the rate of adverse events attributable to the vaccine and estimate breakthrough COVID-19 illness,” he said. “The potential to use these kinds of data to improve public health outcomes for older adults is so very important.” The work is supported by the National Institute on Aging of the National Institutes of Health under Award No. 3U54AG063546-02S7. Editor's note: A previous version of this story noted the grant amount as $4.2 million and also included an error in the NIH award number. Both facts have been corrected. The story has also been updated to include the current amount of the IMPACT Collaboratory grant as of March 11, 2021. Tags COVID-19 School of Public Health Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty May 16, 2022 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read Article Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects Open details for Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects Bookmark this Page