Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High School Freshmen Transfer International Online (UofM Global) Readmits Graduate Law School Non-Degree Seeking Parents & Families HS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition OverviewResidency PolicyBorder County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics Non-Degree Seeking Non-Degree Seekings Applicants Is expanding your knowledge on your bucket list? Not everyone comes to the UofM seeking a degree. We welcome non-degree seeking students and can’t wait to make you part of the Tiger family. Whether you already have a college degree, have some college experience or have a high school diploma but never went to college, all are invited to take courses that will enhance your education or meet personal goals. Non-degree seeking students typically identify in one of three classifications: Applicants with a College Degree: An applicant who has earned a baccalaureate degree from an accredited institution and desires to take only a limited number of undergraduate courses for personal enrichment. Applicants with Previous College Attendance but No Degree (Transient): A student currently enrolled in an accredited college or university, who wishes to take a course/s and transfer the earned credits back to his/her home institution. Transient students should apply using the Transfer application. Applicants without a College Degree: An applicant who has graduated from high school or the equivalent and has never attended another college or university. The following should be noted when applying as a non-degree seeking student: Students are limited to earning 18 credit hours in a single term and a total of 24 credit hours while in the non-degree category. This limit may be extended if there has been enrollment at another institution since last attending the University of Memphis. Applicants who are offered admission to this category and who do not have appropriate test scores in English and math who wish to take an English or a mathematics course will be required to take a placement examination prior to enrollment. Based on the results of this assessment, these applicants may be required to successfully complete basic or developmental courses prior to enrolling in degree credit courses. Applicants in the non-degree category are NOT ELIGIBLE to receive federal financial aid. Applicants under 21 who complete their high school work during the calendar year in which they seek admission will not be considered in the non-degree category. An applicant who has applied as a degree-seeking undergraduate and was denied admission must generally wait a fall or spring semester or six months before applying for admission at the non-degree level. A non-degree student may, at any time within the stated deadlines, apply for reclassification as a degree-seeking student, effective at the beginning of the next semester. Admission procedures and requirements are the same as those for degree-seeking undergraduate applicants. Apply as a Non-Degree Seeking Student > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.