Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Air Force ROTC AFROTC right arrow down arrow Our Detachment right arrow down arrow Detachment 665 Cadre right arrow down arrow Commander Recruiting Officer Operations Flight Commander NCOIC of Personnel NCOIC of Administration Program Director Prospective Cadets right arrow down arrow How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information Contact Us Home » Campus Life » Air Force ROTC » Prospective Cadets » FAQ Set Navigation title in component How to Join Crosstown Schools Program Requirements Returning to school? FAQ Request More Information FAQ If I join Air Force ROTC, does that mean I’m joining the military? right arrow down arrow You are not required to join the military or and will not have any obligation to the military until you sign a contract with the Air Force after Field Training or if you accept a scholarship. Do I have to join Air Force ROTC as a freshman? right arrow down arrow No, but cadets must participate in the program for at least three years in order to meet all Air Force ROTC graduation requirements. If an individual is already close to finishing their bachelor’s degree, we recommend looking into OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL, which is an officer commissioning program designed for those who already have their bachelor’s degree. Can I attend Air Force ROTC without a scholarship? right arrow down arrow Yes! Many of our students do not start with a scholarship but earn one eventually. At any given time, about 80 percent of our students receive financial assistance, but they are not required to receive a scholarship to complete the program and graduate as an officer in the Air Force. When will cadets know what their job is in the Air Force? right arrow down arrow Cadets compete in a selection process that factors in their Air Force Officer Qualification Test (AFOQT) scores, Field Training performance ratings, grade point averages (GPAs), academic major, Physical Fitness Test (PFT) scores, and their Detachment Commander’s rating. They will know their specific Air Force job category approximately six months before they are commissioned. Is a major in aeronautical science required to become a pilot or combat systems officer? right arrow down arrow No. Academic major plays a minor role in Pilot and Combat Systems Officer selection. Cadets can major in any degree program and compete to receive a Pilot or Combat Systems Officer slot in Air Force ROTC. Do cadets have to wear a uniform to class every day? right arrow down arrow No. Cadets are only required to wear their uniforms on the days they have Air Force ROTC commitments, which is typically two to three days a week. In our case we wear our uniform on Leadership Lab days all day then to Aerospace Studies class. How much time do cadets spend with Air Force ROTC each week? right arrow down arrow Each week cadets are required to attend Air Force ROTC classes, Leadership Lab, and physical fitness training (this equates to approximately five class hours per week for freshmen and sophomores and seven class hours per week for juniors and seniors). In addition, cadets will have individual preparation for these activities, to include homework assignments and uniform preparation. Cadets attending crosstown schools should factor in the time to commute to the host university. Do I have to study a STEM Major? right arrow down arrow No! You can choose any major that you want to study. You should choose something that you will enjoy and do well in. A huge part of the program is being competitive by having a high GPA so make sure you choose a degree that suits you. What is Field Training? right arrow down arrow Field Training is a 14 day training program between your sophomore and junior year that you have to attend and pass in order to move on to the Professional Officer Course. You will be taught how to succeed during your sophomore year spring semester before leaving. Rated Vs Non-Rated Career Fields right arrow down arrow Replace this text component with your accordion's content. If I want to join the Space Force, do I join Air Force ROTC? right arrow down arrow Yes. The United States Space Force (USSF) is a part of the Department of the Air Force. AFROTC commissions officers in both the USAF and USSF. Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Air Force ROTC Detachment 665 2585 Dennis St Cincinnati OH, 45221 513-556-2237 afrotc@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top