Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Chemical Instrumentation Facility Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search About CIF Forms Remote Data Access Safety Info for ... New & Current Users Leaving students External users High school and undergrads Services Electronics Shop Outreach X-Ray Diffraction X-Ray Basics Crystallography Basics States of Matter X-Ray Diffraction Basics X-Rays in Chemistry Remote Data Processing EA Sample Submission External Sample Submission X-ray Structure Determination Magnetic Resonance NMR Tutorials NMR Comparison NMR Sample Preparation Indirect Referencing MNova NMR Software NMR Access Policies AVII 600 Solids/Cryo Experimental Section QA-QC Protocols AVIII 600 Experimental Section QA-QC Protocols AV NEO 400 Experimental Section QA-QC Protocols MR 400 Experimental Section QA-QC Protocols DRX 500 Experimental Section QA-QC Protocols AV 400 Solids ELEXSYS E580 FT-EPR QA-QC Protocols Experimental Section Hardware Specifications Consumables and Cryogens Mass Spectrometry Mass Spectrometry Tutorial 6540 LC-QTOF QA-QC Protocols Experimental Section LCMS 2020 QA-QC Protocols Experimental Section 7250 GC-QTOF Pyrolysis GCMS TGA/DSC Thermal analysis Prep HPLC X-ray Diffraction X-Ray Training and Authorization Rigaku Ultima IV Powder Diffractometer Bruker Venture D8 Bruker APEX II CCD Cambridge Structural Database (CCDC) X-Ray Structure Determination Outputs Other Instruments Autoclaves Centrifuge Circular dichroism Elemental analysis Fluorescence Infrared spectroscopy Microcalorimetry Particle size analyzer Polarimeter UV-Vis spectroscopy Physisorption Electron microscopy Current Instrument Status NMR Mass Spec Other Other Bruker AV 400 Solid Agilent 5973 MSD Bruker Apex II Cary 100 UV-Vis Bruker DRX 500 Agilent SD-1 Prep LC Bruker Venture D8 Bruker Tensor 37 FTIR Varian 400 MR Agilent 6540 QTOF Rigaku Ultima U4 XRD Microcal Calorimeter Bruker NEO 400 Micromass GC-TOF Zetasizer NANO Agilent 8453 UV-Vis Bruker AV II 600 Shimadzu 2020 LCMS Netzsch TGA/DSC-IR/MS Jasco J-710 CD Bruker AV III 600 Agilent 7250 GC-QTOF Bruker FT-EPR PE 2100 II CHN/S Available In Use Broken Unmonitored NOTE: To update the Status display, refresh your page Reserve Instrument Time NMR Mass Spec X-Ray Other Facility Intro X-Ray Intro NMR Intro Mass Spec Intro Other Inst Intro NEWS.... Electron Microscopy Added 09/09/21 The CIF recently acquired a JEOL scanning electron microscope (SEM) for materials analysis and imaging. This SEM has ~10 nm resolution as well as X-ray elemental dispersion spectroscopy (EDS), and can operate in high vacuum and low vacuum modes. The instrument is straightforward to use since all components are operable from one software package, and it is located in 1710 Gilman Hall. Please inquire to Brett regarding sample submission or training requests. More details on the instrument are available here. ASAP 2020 Back Online 02/25/21 After being down for several years, the ASAP 2020 Physisorption instrument is back online, and test samples show it to be running within specs. A 60 L pressurized nitrogen dewar has been installed next to the system for simple filling of the instrument components. Additionally, the computer has been updated, automatically tracks instrument usage and the instrument has been set up in 1710 Gilman Hall. Please inquire to Brett for training or to run some samples. As of right now, we have not set up a scheduling calendar but may in the future. Services Update 03/18/20 The CIF has reopened the Electronics Shop as a means for researchers to get help troubleshooting and repairing their equipment. Contact Brett with submissions for the shop. In addition, the website was updated with the Services menu tab, which includes information on the Electronics Shop, the basics of X-ray crystallography, remote data processing assistance, sample submission guidelines, as well as X-ray structure determination information. New Instruments! 10/16/2019 We are pleased to welcome three new instruments to our services this month. The first is a Horiba time-correlated single photon counting fluorometer. The second is a Perkin Elmer steady-state fluorometer. The third instrument is a Thermo FlashSmart CHNS/O combustion elemental analyzer that replaces the ca. 1995 Perkin Elmer CHN/S that served us well for many years. Please contact Brett for training on either of the fluorescence systems, or Sarah for EA sample submission. Welcome, Dr. Boote! 09/06/2019 Dr. Brett Boote officially started in the CIF on Tuesday after an extensive search for our fifth staff scientist. Brett brings an array of experience to our team, particularly in the realms of spectrophotometry and instrument design. We will be updating our various instrument websites over the next few weeks as we begin to settle on our group instrumentation duties moving forward. Electronic Key Card Form 08/15/2019 One less piece of paper - lab access requests can now be submitted electronically. Website Update 04/25/2019 Our website has a new look! There are a few new pages available, including a comparison of the NMR Spectrometer features and access to MNova licenses and installation information. Please let us know if you find any dead links or errors by emailing Sarah. Mass Spec News 04/25/2019: Paperless service!!! the mass spec lab is starting to phase out submission forms. Google calendar is being used for all reservations. All instruments provide login/logout for all users. Goodbye! 03/01/19 Steve's last day! Thank you for your support of CIF. It has been a pleasure to work with all of the students staff and faculty for 41+ years! iLabs lab management software going live! 11/5/18 New instrument scheduling and usage tracking software will be phased in for all instruments beginning next week. The first phase includes UV-Vis, CD, DLS, and GCMS. Avance NEO-400 NMR is here! 06/08/18 The Bruker NEO Avance 400 NMR is here and installed with a BBO probe. Beginning on June 12 it should be available for experienced users who are currently using the Avance III 600 NMR. A very short training with Shu or Sarah might be required. Expect a direct e-mail soon with details. Unfortunately the InsightMR features using a Prodigy probe will not be available for a few more weeks. The probe is back-ordered, and the shipping company seems to have lost the crate with the InsightMR parts!! Stay tuned... GC Q-TOF is here! 04/25/18 The Agilent 7250 GC Q-TOF instrument has arrived and been initially installed. It will take a week or two for Kamel and I to learn the system and create some basic training materials. In the meantime, you will start to see lot's more info on the GC Q-TOF page as we sort through company manuals and training materials. The GC x GC attachment has arrived, but installation is not yet scheduled. is scheduled to arrive late in May! 04/25/18 The Bruker 400 NMR replacement for the aged DRX-400 is on track to arrive later in May. It will be installed with "normal" probes for the moment. The high-sensitivity cryo-cooled probe should arrive in July. GC Q-TOF Mass Spec on Order... 02/01/18 With the assistance of the ISU Foundation, we have successfully applied for Carver Foundation funds for the purchase of a new GC Q-TOF mass spectrometer. The Carver Funds were augmented with funds from the Agilent Academic Incentives Program to allow us to purchase a complete Agilent 7250 Q-TOF with 7890 GC. In additon, we will be purchasing a thermal-focus GC x GC accessory. A webpage for the new instrument is under development, so stay tuned for all of the information you need and want about this fantastic new piece of equipment! Delivery is expected by early May, 2018. NMR Upgrade Funded... 09/04/17 Success at NSF! Our proposal to upgrade the aged DRX-400 with a new console, cryogenically cooled broadband probe, and external reaction kinetics and NMR-flow apparatus was approved. The purchase process is underway, and if things go smoothly, we may see a new system installed as soon as the first quarter of 2018. Thanks to Sarah, Professor Sadow (PI), and the various other co-PI's and contributors that made this success possible. Department of Chemistry Chemical Instrumentation Facility 2438 Pammel Dr 1234 Hach Hall Ames, Iowa 50011-3111 515-294-5805 phone Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information