Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Engineering and Computer Science Menu Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science About Education Materials Science Faculty Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Bioinformatics Bachelor of Science in Informatics: Data Science major Research Computer Science About Us ABET Chair's Welcome Degree Programs Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering Concentration Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Cybersecurity Concentration Bachelor of Arts Bachelor of Science with Computer Science Fellows Major Online Master of Science Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Bioinformatics Competitive Learning Cybersecurity & Networking Data Science Human-Computer Interaction Machine Learning Software Engineering VLSI Design Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair eBears Seminars Cadence University Program Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & Master of Engineering Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program Master of Science Doctor of Philosophy Research Biomedical Computing Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems Material and Devices Sustainable Energy and Power Systems Wireless & Microwave Circuits & Systems Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us ABET Welcome from the Chair Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.S. Ph.D. Research Advance Materials and Additive Manufacturing Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Geriatric Engineering Humanitarian Engineering and Engineering Ethics Sustainable Engineering Thermo-Fluids Engineering Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us ABET Programs Bachelor of Science B.S. & M.S. Joint Program B.S. & M.E. Joint Program M.B.A. & M.E. Joint Program Master of Science Master of Engineering Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise Baylor>Engineering & Computer Science>Students & Academics>Student Services>Academic Advising>Academic Actions Academic Actions Decisions regarding Academic Probation/Suspension in the School of Engineering & Computer Science are made by the Assoc. Dean for ECS Undergraduate Programs, Dr. Michael Thompson. Academic Probation At any time a student’s term and/or cumulative grade point average (GPA) is below 2.0 on a 4.0 scale, the dean of the academic unit in which the student is enrolled will notify the student that he or she will be placed on academic probation during the next term. Any student with 30 or fewer hours who is placed on probation is required to develop and implement an academic improvement plan. Details will be specified in the probation letter from the student's academic dean. Any student on academic probation is required to obtain academic advisement before registering for the next term. If at the end of the probation term both the student's term GPA and cumulative GPA are 2.0 or above, the student will be removed from probation. However, if at the end of a probation term the student's term GPA is 2.0 or above, but the student's cumulative GPA is still below 2.0, the student will be continued on probation until the cumulative GPA also reaches at least a 2.0. Academic Suspension Once a student has served at least one term of academic probation, if the student's term GPA is ever below a 2.0 for a subsequent term, the student will be subject to academic suspension. Any student who is subject to suspension will be informed in writing by the dean of the academic unit in which the student is enrolled that suspension appears to be appropriate. The letter will indicate that the student has seven (7) business days from the date of the letter to provide the dean with relevant information (change of grade, verifiable medical condition, or other circumstances) that might affect the dean's decision. After reviewing the student's academic records and other relevant information supplied to the dean by the student, the dean will decide whether to place the student on academic suspension or to extend the student's period of academic probation. The dean will notify the student in writing of the decision. The period of suspension for a student who is placed on academic suspension for the first time is two enrollment terms (summer and fall or spring and summer). If a student is suspended at the end of the summer term, the suspension is fall only. The period of suspension for a student who is placed on academic suspension for a second time is three (3) subsequent enrollment terms (Summer counts as one enrollment term). A student who is reinstated following his or her academic suspension is on academic probation and must meet the terms of academic probation to avoid another academic suspension or a dismissal. Applying for Reinstatement Following Academic Suspension Students must apply for reinstatement following academic suspension. The student must explain to the dean in writing his or her assessment of the reasons for the academic difficulties and how, if reinstated, he or she expects to change academic performance so as to raise the term and cumulative GPA to the required level. The dean may elect to grant the student's appeal or extend the academic suspension for an additional term. Campus Resources for Students on Academic Probation and Suspension ECS Academic Advising: ECS_Advising@baylor.edu. Office of Access and Learning Accommodations (OALA): Request Services Counseling Center - Schedule an Appointment Student Financial Services - Contact Form Center for Academic Success and Engagement (CASE) - FREE tutoring for Baylor courses and academic resources STL 1101: Mentoring STL 1102: Exploring New Majors STL 1200: Strategic Learning Learning Resource Center - Study spaces and FREE tutoring for ECS courses Math Lab: Tutors and Schedule Academic Probation and Suspension policies are subject to change at any time. For the most up-to-date information, refer to the curent version of the Undergraduate Catalog. Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships List of ECS Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Summer Accelerate Program Summer of Discovery Freshmen Fall Incoming Freshmen Equipment Requirements and Computer Recommendations Transfer Course Recommendations Entrance and Progression Standards ECS Scholars Program Academic Advising Meet with an ECS Advisor Advising Walk-in Hours Course Drops Academic Actions Certification for Graduation ECS Summer Courses Advising Resources Pre-Engineering Requirements ECS Course Repeat Policy Final Exam Policy Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Engineering & Computer Science One Bear Place #97356 Waco, TX 76798-7356 Computer Science One Bear Place #97141 Waco, TX 76798-7141 (254) 710-3890 ECS_Student_Services@baylor.edu Apply Give Questions for Undergraduate Programs Questions for Graduate Programs General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Students & Academics Student Services Career Center Student Leadership Learning Resource Center Scholarships Student Organizations Incoming Students Academic Advising Teal Residential College ECS ID Management ECS Scholars Program Degree Programs Flow Charts Capstone Meet Our Alumni ECS Digital Brochure ECS Student Organization Fair Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research Bioinformatics Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Mechanical Engineering Engineering Materials Science Get Involved Give Dean's Funding Initiatives Quick Impact Giving Planned Giving Matching Gifts Corporate Collaborations Engineering Corporate Affiliate Program Computer Science Corporate Affiliate Program Cybersecurity Corporate Affiliate Program Alumni ASEE Gulf Southwest Conference 2021 About the ASEE GSW Conference Abstract and Paper Submission Conference Agenda and Program Conference Host Conference Registration Conference Organization About Mission Statement Dean's Welcome Office of the Dean Staff Directory ABET Board of Advocates Board Members Synergy Magazine Synergy Magazine - Archives News Events Admission & Aid Departments Informatics About Us Degree Programs Research Computer Science About Us Degree Programs Research Giving Electrical & Computer Engineering About Us Programs Research Alumni Giving Open Faculty Positions Mechanical Engineering About Us Programs Research Open Faculty Positions Engineering About Us Programs Research 25th Anniversary School of Engineering and Computer Science Timeline Stories Rick Tullis Kimmie Sandusky Mario Lopez Heather Benoit Jay D. Battershell Denton Wood Videos Marques Jones Heather Benoit Spotlight Timeline Merchandise