Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Effective assessment design enhances student learning, and engages students with different learning styles. Assessment influences what a student interprets to be the important learning goals for a course. The assignments we design constitute the means by which we assess student learning. In the best case scenario, assessments should be aligned with course goals and objectives. The following guidelines will help you to design assessments that promote your students’ learning. Assessment Influences the Process of Learning 1. Provide spaced assessed tasks to enable students to allocate sufficient time to study over a suitable time period and avoid "cramming." Students submit drafts/works in progress or display work publicly at specific points during the course. For group work, provide mechanisms for formalized peer feedback throughout the project. Design frequent tasks rather than one end of course assessment (or build in steps). 2. Design the assessment so that students tackle the task appropriately, i.e., they engage in the process of learning rather than simply producing a final product. Allocate some percentage of the overall mark to drafts/works in progress or justifications of decisions made while completing the assignment. Allow students to reveal their errors and explain their corrections to validate the process of learning. Value the learning process rather than only the final assignment by allocating marks to students’ self-analysis of their learning. 3. Give students the opportunity to practice the skills they need for each assessment. Clearly explain the assessment criteria. Give feedback on formative work. Discuss the assessment task with students. Continue to improve your assessment tasks for future iterations of your course based on feedback and based on how effective they were (or not) in enhancing students’ learning. Use Feedback to Enhance Learning 4. Provide sufficient and detailed feedback. Use feedback and self-assessment sheets. Consider using audio or video recordings (e.g., for student presentations) and provide opportunities for students to discuss their reflections on their presentations and how they would like to improve. Avoid checks and crosses, or less meaningful terms like “Great work!” or “Poor.” 5. Focus your feedback on student performance, learning, or actions the student can control. Identify errors clearly. Outline options for action that are reasonable. Avoid personal comments which can reduce a student’s sense of competence (linked to motivation). 6. Provide timely feedback, or feedback that is given while it matters to the student and can be used to improve future performance. Discuss model answers or exemplars immediately after students submit their work, while the ideas are fresh in their minds. Use peer feedback: immediate peer feedback is preferable to late professor feedback. Computer-based practice tests (e.g., multiple choice tests on Canvas) can provide immediate feedback for student self-paced study; however, ensure that explanations for incorrect and correct answers are provided. Also, provide “thought questions” to encourage students to consider the critical aspects of the questions (and discourage them from randomly guessing). 7. Align feedback with the learning goals of the assignment and the assessment criteria. Align your feedback with the aim of the assignment: are you trying to increase interest and motivation with new students, or promote reflective learning, or identify and correct misconceptions? Use self and peer assessment to encourage critical thinking and internalization of assessment criteria and standards. 8. Provide feedback that is appropriate to the student’s breadth and depth of background, experience, and level of independence. Feedback needs to be understandable to the student and provide ways for the student to progress to the next stage or level of understanding. Provide feedback sensitive to the student’s understanding of the discipline involved (i.e., separate generic study skills feedback from discipline-specific comments). 9. Feedback needs to be read and noticed. Provide ways for students to have an active role in eliciting useful feedback. For example, you can have them identify and list points they need feedback on. Where appropriate, it helps to give feedback only (no grade). Use self-assessment prior to any official grading. Use two-part assignments: formative feedback at part 1; grade only at part 2. Use self-assessment, professor feedback, and then supply a grade. 10. Feedback is acted on by the student. Follow up the feedback and be encouraging. Provide “feed-forward” (applies to future work). Use feedback to promote self-directed learning. References Gibbs, G. & Simpson, C. (2004) Conditions under which assessment supports students’ learning. Learning and Teaching in Higher Education, Issue 1 Brown, S, Race, P & Smith B (1996) 500 Tips on Assessment, London: Kogan Page Woolcock, M.J.V. (2005) Constructing a Syllabus: A handbook for faculty, teaching assistants and teaching fellows. A publication of The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, Brown University. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top