Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate ChecklistHonors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student ChecklistGraduate School RequirementsHooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Program Proof Accuracy is important! Proof your name. Graduation is a SPECIAL moment. Accuracy is important to us and also you and your family and friends. You are required to proof your name, degree, any honors designations and any prior degree information. Click on the program proof link immediately below. You have ONE opportunity to review your information for accuracy. Program Proof The May 2022 Proofing Schedule has passed. We look forward to seeing you at commencement. For questions or concerns, email commencement@memphis.edu. August 2022 Planning will begin in June 2022. How to Proof Each semester, we will update the graduation program 3-4 times. It is your responsibility to ensure your information is accurate by the Step 4 The Attendance/Non-Attendance Form deadline. Find your name on the program proof PDF document provided at the above link Confirm the name, degree, honors designations, prior degree information (If anything is wrong, email us at commencement@memphis.edu immediately following submission of Step 4). Name Changes: The Name Change Deadline was the same deadline as your Graduation Application. At this point, the deadline has passed and we are no longer accepting name changes. Once you have reviewed your information, return to Step 4, finish answering the questions and submit the form at the bottom of the page. You have submitted Step 4 accurately when you receive an email confirmation to your Memphis email account. You'll need the Adobe Reader to view the program proof below. If you don't have Adobe Reader installed on your computer, please click the "Get Adobe Reader" icon below to download the latest FREE version. Each College is linked to it's section of the program proof. These are first-run Galley proofs, so please ignore the layout and check your name, degree and college. Confidentiality Disclaimer If you would like to have your name removed for confidentiality or any other reasons, please contact our office by the Attendance Form deadline. Your name will be included in the Commencement Program unless you contact us to remove it, whether or not you have prior confidential restrictions on your student account. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.