Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Physical Therapy Menu About Mission and Goals Accreditation Status Career Outlook and Opportunities FAQ Prospective Student Tuition and Financial Aid Estimated Program Costs Building Relationships Hybrid Learning Environments Informational Webinars Visit an Onsite Lab Tour Our Facilities Admissions Admissions Requirements Program Admission Requirements Prerequisite Courses Background Checks and Drug Testing Technical Standards & Accommodations Health Information Application Procedures Computer Requirements Admissions and Outcome Data Curriculum Academic Calendar Degree Plan and Course Descriptions Clinical Education Overview Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Affiliated Opportunities FAQ for Associate Faculty Course Information Associate Faculty Interest Form Residency Program Structure Application and Selection Faculty & Residents Trevor Carlson Cassie Young Contact Us Contact Us Request for Information An Innovative 2-Year DPT Program We offer an innovative hybrid Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) program that allows completion of your degree requirements in two years. Our blended learning format combines best practices in distance education, on-campus lab immersion sessions, and clinical education experiences to prepare you as a physical therapist and servant leader in this vital profession. Explore About the DPT Program Spotlight Degree Program Tuition Apply Now Informational Webinars Request Information An Innovative and Accelerated 2-Year DPT Program "Students rise to the challenge. They rise to the occasion. They can do things they never dreamed possible. All you've got to do is give them the opportunity and the challenge, and that is what this program does." - Dr. Michael Walker, Program Director Building Knowledge, Relationships, & Community "I feel like I'm cared for not only in terms of the knowledge I learn from the classroom, but also how I'm growing spiritually, emotionally, relationally, socially. My professors care about all of that." - Marianna Aranna, Baylor DPT Class of 2019 A New Approach to Physical Therapist Education "The type and quality of relationships that I've built throughout this program, I never could have imagined." - Nathaniel Helferrich, Baylor DPT Class of 2019 Hybrid, Human, & Hands-on Physical Therapist Education "We bring in experts from across the country. We're not bound by geography. And that's true for our faculty AND our students." - Dr. Kendra Gagnon, Director of Student Affairs Connect Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) One Bear Place #97193 Waco, TX 76798 254.710.8066 Email Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Mission and Goals Accreditation Status Career Outlook and Opportunities FAQ Prospective Student Tuition and Financial Aid Estimated Program Costs Building Relationships Hybrid Learning Environments Informational Webinars Visit an Onsite Lab Tour Our Facilities Admissions Admissions Requirements Program Admission Requirements Prerequisite Courses Background Checks and Drug Testing Technical Standards & Accommodations Health Information Application Procedures Computer Requirements Admissions and Outcome Data Curriculum Academic Calendar Degree Plan and Course Descriptions Clinical Education Overview Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Staff Directory Affiliated Opportunities FAQ for Associate Faculty Course Information Associate Faculty Interest Form Residency Program Structure Application and Selection Faculty & Residents Trevor Carlson Cassie Young Contact Us Contact Us Request for Information