Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Energizing world change Lyle School of Engineering The Lyle School of Engineering develops future leaders by empowering students with exceptional engineering and innovation skills. Lyle is home to five engineering departments in addition to centers and institutes that advance leadership, engineering education and cyber security. Our students, faculty and programs regularly improve the lives of those in underserved communities. At Lyle, we galvanize engineers who change the world. SMU Fund for Lyle When you give to the SMU fund for Lyle you help ignite creative ideas and inventions by supporting our highest-priority needs, including critical lab enhancements, research travel grants and recruitment and retention of the best faculty. Make a Gift Make an impact Supporting the Lyle scholars program helps fund scholarships that attract and retain outstanding students from around the country. Your gift raises the standard of excellence across all departments and promotes a vibrant, diverse, collaborative community of scholars, including students from underrepresented ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds. Annual scholarships are a $40,000 one-time gift, or $10,000 per year for four years. Your donations to the Engineering Entrepreneurship Initiative create the space and high-tech tools for students to practice entrepreneurship, such as software, biomedical equipment, high-precision prototyping resources and electronics. These technologies open up a variety of pathways for our enterprising students, faculty and staff to maximize creativity and invention. Gifts of any amount can be designated to any fund that matches your interest. As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we now embark on SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Blaze a new path Maya Jhangiani Director of Development Lyle School of Engineering mjhangiani@smu.edu or 214-768-3534 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search