Skip to Main Content For Prospective Students For Current Students For Faculty For Alumni Directories Academic Calendar TUPortal Apply Make a Gift Beasley School of Law Menu About Dean’s Welcome Mission & History Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Areas of Study Commitment to Service Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Graduate Employment Outcomes Tuition & Cost Life in Philadelphia Advocacy Is… Student Spotlight Faculty Spotlight Alumni Spotlight Admissions J.D. Admissions LL.M. and Graduate Program Admissions Academics Degrees and Programs Areas of Study J.D. Curriculum Experiential Learning The Law & Public Policy Program Study Abroad Graduate Tax Program Visiting Research Scholar Program Intellectual Life Course Selection Exams Student Learning Outcomes and Performance Criteria Academic Policies Academic Calendar Faculty Full Time & Visiting Faculty Adjunct Faculty Scholarship & Publications Areas of Expertise Faculty Research & Teaching Areas More Resources Prospective Student Resources Current Student Resources Faculty Resources Alumni Resources Financial Aid Career Services Student Services Technology Services Law Library Media and Communications Plan an Event Directions & Parking Temple Law School Faculty & Staff Directory Policies & Procedures More Library Calendar News Degrees and Programs Dual Degree Programs Academics Degrees and Programs Dual Degree Programs Academics Degrees and Programs Juris Doctor (J.D.) J.D. Curriculum Full-Time Day Division Evening & Part-Time Day Division Graduation Requirements J.D. Certificate Programs Certificate in Trial Advocacy and Litigation Public Health Law Certificate Program Certificate in Business Law Admissions LL.M. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers Curriculum Graduation Requirements Tuition and Expenses Taking the Bar Exam Alumni Application Procedure Frequently Asked Questions LL.M. in Trial Advocacy Curriculum Why an LL.M. The Temple Experience Distance Learning Faculty Testimonials Application Procedure LL.M. in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Apply LL.M. and J.D./LL.M. in Transnational Law Program Requirements Application Procedure LL.M. in Beijing, China Curriculum Graduation Requirements Application Procedure Tuition & Cost Academic Calendar LL.M. in Asian Law Program Requirements Application Procedure S.J.D. Program Application Procedure Master of Science in Taxation Curriculum Faculty Applying for Admission to the MST Program Employee Benefits Certificate Apply Certificate in International Business and Compliance Estate Planning Certificate Apply Dual Degree Programs J.D. / M.P.H. J.D. / M.B.A. J.D. / MSW J.D. / LL.M. in Transnational Law J.D. / LL.M. in Taxation Many students are interested in broadening their legal education by obtaining a dual or joint degree. Advanced study in two disciplines gives some students more options in their professional careers. Temple Law School provides students with the opportunity to obtain a joint or dual degree through several different programs and in a variety of disciplines. J.D./M.P.H. Degree Temple University Beasley School of Law and the Department of Public Health in the College of Public Health offer a dual degree program leading to the conferral of both the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and the Master of Public Health (M.P.H.) upon graduation. Learn More J.D./M.B.A. Degree Temple University Beasley School of Law and the Fox School of Business and Management cooperatively offer a dual degree program leading to the conferral of the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and the Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) degrees upon graduation. The J.D./M.B.A. program offers you an opportunity to earn a J.D. and an M.B.A. with fewer hours of course work than would be required if the two degrees were earned separately. Candidates receive two separate degrees upon graduation: a J.D. from the Law School and an M.B.A. from the Fox School of Business and Management. The graduation requirements from each school must be met separately. A J.D./M.B.A. student must complete all requirements for both degrees before either degree can be awarded. Learn More J.D./MSW Temple University Beasley School of Law and the College of Public Health offer a dual degree program leading to the conferral of both the Juris Doctor (J.D.) and the Master of Social Work (MSW) upon graduation. Learn More J.D./LL.M. Degrees Temple University School of Law offers a variety of Master of Laws (LL.M.) degrees which can be earned after completion of the J.D. program. Students with a focused interest in Taxation may want to take advantage of the J.D./LL.M. in Taxation, and for those students with an interest in international law, Temple offers the J.D./LL.M. in Transnational Law. In both programs, credits earned while a J.D. student can be applied to the LL.M. degree. An LL.M. degree may be earned with as little as one additional semester of full-time study beyond the J.D., or students may study on a part-time basis while practicing law. J.D. / LL.M. in Transnational Law J.D. / LL.M. in Taxation More in Dual Degree Programs: J.D. / M.P.H. J.D. / M.B.A. J.D. / MSW J.D. / LL.M. in Transnational Law J.D. / LL.M. in Taxation Back to Degrees and Programs Work Temple University Beasley School of Law 1719 North Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 (215) 204-7861 Accessibility Privacy Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Temple University Media Inquiries Contact Us © 2022 Temple University Beasley School of Law.