Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Get involved Get food Donate Recipes Any Hungry Husky Menu Home About Get involved Get food Donate Recipes Home Any Hungry Husky We provide food assistance to members of the UW community. UW Food Pantry Poplar Hall 210 1311 NE 41st St. Order Food Online For Curbside Pickup. Orders placed less than 2 hours before intended pickup time may not be available until the next day. Spring Quarter 2022 Monday 11am – 5:30 pm Tuesday 11am – 6:30 pm Wednesday 11am – 5:30 pm Thursday 3 pm – 6:30 pm The UW Food Pantry provides UW students, staff and faculty with shelf-stable groceries and seasonal fresh produce for no cost. Anyone with a Husky ID is welcome. Please bring reusable bags to carry your items. Food Pantry Volunteer Any Hungry Husky relies on volunteers who are committed to ensuring every community member has access to healthy and wholesome food. Volunteers work with customers, stock shelves and support campus food drives. Please fill out this form to join the Pantry volunteer team. To volunteer as a group (RSOs, Greek chapters, etc) please email uwpantry@uw.edu to inquire about opportunities. Volunteers are required to complete a short training course. Opportunities are filled on a rolling basis. Get involved Connect with us Facebook Instagram Email: uwpantry@uw.edu Relieving food insecurity In a recent study of UW students, 20% indicated they “sometimes” or “often” ran out of food and did not have enough money to buy more. Food insecurity negatively affects physical, mental and emotional health, making it difficult for people to perform well at school and work. Any Hungry Husky relieves this issue by providing nutritious, wholesome food to anyone in the UW community. Food security grant If you are in urgent need of food you can apply for a Food Security Grant and receive $100 on your Husky Card to be used at on campus dining locations and markets. UW Food Alert – coming soon! Get texts or emails about extra food left over after a campus event. When hosts have leftover food, they’ll send a notification about what food is available, where and when. Event hosts who are interested should fill out our interest form and you will be contacted with more information. UW Food Alert implementation is on hold due to the pandemic. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA