Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home About Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions What does "A&M" stand for? What is an Aggie? What is the 12th Man? What is the mascot? What are the official colors? Where is Texas A&M located? What is the weather like? What is the Corps of Cadets? What does "A&M" stand for? Agricultural and Mechanical, originally, but today the letters no longer explicitly stand for anything. When Texas A&M was opened on Oct. 4, 1876 as the state's first public institution of higher education, it was called the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, or "A&M" for short. When the institution gained university status in 1963, the "A&M" representation was incorporated into the official name in deference to the institution's history and rich traditions. Note that A&M has no periods, no spaces, but has an ampersand. What is an Aggie? An Aggie is a student at Texas A&M. In the early 1900s, Texas A&M students were referred to as "Farmers." The term Aggie began to be used in the 1920s, and in 1949, when the yearbook changed its name from The Longhorn to Aggieland, Aggie became the official student body nickname. What is the 12th Man? The 12th Man is the entire student body — past and present. Sprung from the selfless gesture of Aggie E. King Gill at a 1922 football game, the tradition embodies the core values held by the university. Students still show the 12th Man spirit at each athletic event — during football games, the student body stands for the entire event, ready to go into the game if needed. Learn more about this tradition at 12thMan.tamu.edu. What is the mascot? Reveille IX, a full-blooded collie, is Texas A&M's mascot. As the highest-ranking member of Texas A&M's Corps of Cadets, Reveille is part of a rich tradition. "Miss Rev," as cadets address her, is immensely popular and can be seen around campus, in class, or attending a number of events. Get to know Reveille IX at Reveille.tamu.edu. What are the official colors? Maroon and white. The colors are such a prominent part of Texas A&M that they are referred to in "The Spirit of Aggieland," our alma mater, which was written in 1925. For official color values, take a look at our Brand Guide. Where is Texas A&M located? Texas A&M is located in College Station, Texas. Home to a community of about 170,000 residents, the twin cities of Bryan and College Station are centrally located — only a short drive from Austin, Dallas, and Houston. What is the weather like? The local weather is fairly temperate and mild with low temperatures in the winter lasting only a couple of months. Typical lows during the winter are in the low 40s, and typical highs during the summer range in the 90s. The humidity for this region can make winter days seem cooler and summer days warmer, and scattered showers or thunderstorms provide relief and rainfall to the area throughout the year. Weather forecasts for the local area are available from the National Weather Service. What is the Corps of Cadets? Texas A&M was established in 1876 as a military institution, and the Corps of Cadets has played an important part in our history and development. While membership is now voluntary, the Texas A&M Corps of Cadets form the largest uniformed body of students outside the U.S. military academies. More FAQ Admissions Bus/Transit Code Maroon Dining Services Disability Services Gameday & Tailgating NetId Password New Student Conferences Parking Scholarship Eligibility Student Computer Student Health Services Texas A&M Foundation The Association of Former Students 12th Man Foundation University Visual Identity About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top