Skip to main content Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Search Request info Apply Admissions Admissions Freshmen expand_more Freshman Admission Requirements add College Academic Distribution Requirements (CADRs) College-Level Work In High School Homeschooled Students Pathways To Promise Freshman FAQs International Freshmen add Community College Option Upcoming School Visits Transfer Students expand_more Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) Guaranteed Admission Dual Enrollment Program International Transfer Students Transfer Admissions Requirements Transfer Credit Policies add Course Equivalency Guide Transfer FAQs Graduate Students Majors & Degrees expand_more Schools & Programs Tuition & Financial Aid expand_more Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator The Husky Promise Tuition add Other Fees Using the GI Bill Visit Campus expand_more Campus Tours add Virtual Campus Tour Future Husky Events Group Visits Meet Your Advisor Request Information Apply Now expand_more How to apply: Freshman add English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Transfer add Achievements And Activities English Language Proficiency Submitting Standardized Test Scores Submitting Transcripts Writing Your Personal Statement How to apply: Graduate I applied. Now What? I was Admitted add Confirm Your Enrollment Parent FAQ Important Dates MyUW Map Tools How to Apply You apply to UW Tacoma using CollegeNET, which requires you to create an account and submit a nonrefundable application fee. Your application does not have to be completed in one session; you can log in and work on your application whenever you want. You do not pay the application fee until you have completed your application. A credit or debit card is required to pay the fee. Freshman Applications Application Process Submit the UW Tacoma Freshman Application. Complete the academic course grid, an accurate listing of all courses you completed during grades 9 through 11, as well as courses you will complete during your senior year. There are instructions on the application to help you complete the grid successfully. Write your personal statement Complete the activity log by listing your awards, achievements, jobs and school and community activities. Pay the $60 application fee ($75 for international applicants) at the conclusion of your application. Please note, it is at that time you may request a fee waiver. Submit official standardized test scores. Submit official Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB), or College-level Examination Program (CLEP) scores (if applicable). Please be aware that official college or high school transcripts may be required at the time of application; check if you will need to submit your transcripts.Note: If you've already created a Coalition application account, you can use your Coalition credentials to log into the UW Tacoma application. Both applications are hosted by the same service. Note: If you've already created a Coalition application account, you can use your Coalition credentials to log into the UW Tacoma application. Both applications are hosted by the same service. Turn in your complete application as early as possible to ensure that you receive priority consideration for admission and scholarships. Applications received after the priority application date will be considered on a space-available basis. January 15 - Autumn quarter priority application deadline October 15 - Winter quarter priority application deadline The referenced media source is missing and needs to be re-embedded. International Freshman Application Process: Complete the International Freshman admissions application, including personal statement and activity log Proof of English proficiency $75 international application fee (paid when you submit your application) Official high school transcripts, translated to English (word-for-word) if needed. Include transcripts for grade 9. These will be scanned and attached to your freshman online application. You will need to have your high school mail your official, original high school transcript with an official translation if the transcripts are not in English. Send all official paper transcripts to: University of Washington Tacoma Office of Admissions Campus Box 358400 1900 Commerce Street Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 You must have at least a 2.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale to be considered for admission. College-level transcripts If you have attended a college, university or post-secondary school outside the U.S., we will need official transcripts sent from the school that are word-for-word, literal, English translations. Once you are admitted, you will also need to provide proof of financial resources in order to qualify for your I-20 for F-1 student visa status. What kind of student you are? If you're unsure of your class standing, review our guide to UW Tacoma equivalency and figure out which application is right for you. Check Now! Transfer Applications Application Process Complete the UW Tacoma Transfer Application* Pay the $60 application fee ($75 for international applicants) when you submit your application Write your personal statement Submit standardized test scores Submit your transcripts *A complete application includes all supplemental materials, essays and transcripts. Important Dates Application deadlines for transfer admission vary by degree program. You are encouraged to turn in your application as early as possible to ensure that you receive priority consideration. Applications received after the application deadline will be considered on a space-available basis. Review important dates for transfer students. October 15: Winter quarter general admission deadline January 15: Spring quarter general admission deadline March 15: Autumn quarter general admission deadline March 15: Priority scholarship deadline Major, Pre-Major or Undeclared? Transfer applicants can apply to be directly admitted to a major, or can apply as a pre-major or an undeclared student. Direct admission to a major Often students who transfer in junior standing will want to be directly admitted to their major. Some majors, such as the Milgard School of Business, are capacity-constrained and have a separate application that should be submitted at the time that you submit the general university application. Each program has different prerequisites; you should check the program website to see if you qualify to be directly admitted to your major. For other majors, you will simply indicate your interest on the general application to be considered for direct entry to the major. Admission as a pre-major If you know what you want to study, but are not yet ready for admission to your major, you can select a pre-major. Pre-major status helps you connect with program advisors and faculty in order to plan your studies for admission to your chosen major. You can become a pre-major student in one of three ways: If you apply for but are not admitted to your major, then you may still be admitted to UW Tacoma as a pre-major in your chosen field. You can begin attending and work with your advisors to plan your studies to re-apply for admission to your major. If you know your major but are not ready to apply for direct admission, then you can submit an application as an undeclared student and indicate in your admissions personal statement which major you are interested in. When you are admitted to the school, the admissions staff will note in your record that you are a pre-major in your chosen field. Apply as an undeclared student and after you come to UW Tacoma tell your academic advisor which major you are planning to enter. Your advisor will then update your student record to note that you are a pre-major in your chosen field. Admission as an undeclared student If you are not yet sure what you want to study, you can also apply as an undeclared student. You will work with undergraduate academic advising to plan your studies and figure out which major to choose. Admission to a degree program If you have met the minimum number of credits and fulfilled the prerequisites, you can apply to a degree program at the same time you apply for admission. If you are admitted to the university and have indicated you wish to apply for an academic program, your application will be forwarded to the requested academic program for review. If you have completed 75 or more credits already, you are strongly encouraged to do this. Review specific degree-program admission requirement Graduate Applications Graduate program admission is a two-part process requiring application to the UW Graduate School and to a specific graduate degree program at the UW Tacoma. There is a $85 application fee. Graduate Program Application Instructions Accounting (MAcc) Business Administration (MBA) Business Analytics (MS) Community Planning (MA) Computer Science and Systems (MS) Cybersecurity and Leadership (MCL) Education (MEd) Washington State Certification K-8 with English Language Learner (ELL) Certification K-8 with Special Education Certification Secondary Math or Science Certification Educational Administrator Certification Master of Education for Practicing Educators Endorsements for Practicing Educators Educational Leadership (EdD) Geospatial Technologies (MS) Interdisciplinary Studies (MA) Nursing (MN) Social Work (MSW) Taking the GRE or GMAT Some graduate programs at UW Tacoma require you to submit scores from the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT) as part of your application. Read more about taking the GRE or GMAT. Disability Support The University of Washington Tacoma is committed to providing access, equal opportunity and reasonable accommodation in its services, programs, activities, education and employment for individuals with disabilities. To request disability accommodations in the application process, please contact Disability Resources for Students at 253-692-4522 (voice), 253-692-4413 (TTY), 253-692-4602 (FAX) or drsuwt@uw.edu. Campus Crime Statistics As provided by the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act of 1998, applicants are entitled to request and receive a copy of the Annual Security Report of the University of Washington Tacoma. All security reports for the University of Washington Tacoma are available online. Nondiscrimination Policy The University of Washington Tacoma reaffirms its policy of equal opportunity regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, or status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam era veteran. This policy applies to all programs and facilities, including, but not limited to, admissions, educational programs, and employment. Any discriminatory action can be a cause for disciplinary action. Discrimination is prohibited by Presidential Executive Order 11246 as amended, Washington State Gubernatorial Executive Orders 89-01 and 93-07, Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Washington State Law Against Discrimination RCW 49.60, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, State of Washington Gender Equity in Higher Education Act of 1989, sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 as amended, Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act of 1972 as amended, other federal and state statutes, regulations and University policy. Breadcrumb Home How to Apply Contact Admissions email uwtinfo@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4742 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy