Visit Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC TC About Visit About Our Neighborhood Toggle Tertiary Menu Morningside Heights Visit Teachers College Visit our campus to sample the learning and social environments we have designed for our students, faculty and staff. Each day brings new special lectures, colloquia, and workshops, which augment the multitude of academic offerings at Teachers College. The campus, and the great city of which we are a part, provide opportunities for extraordinary experiences. Please come and take a look at the possibilities that studying at Teachers College presents. We look forward to seeing you on campus in the very near future. Map of Teachers College Campus Read directions to campus below or view a larger map. Take a Virtual Tour Directions to Teachers College Teachers College is located on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on 120th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue and is accessible by various modes of transportation. Subway Train Car Bus Air The subway station serving Teachers College is the 116th Street stop of the No. 1 subway train (red line). Be sure that you are on (or transfer to) the 1 train at the 96th Street Station. The express lines (No. 2 or No. 3 trains) do not serve Columbia University. There are subway entrances at Penn Station and the Port Authority Bus Terminal. From Grand Central Station, the Shuttle (S) goes to "Times Square" 42nd Street, offering access to the No. 1 trains going Northbound/Uptown. The MTA website has information about NYC Transit, Long Island Rail Road, Long Island Bus, Metro-North Railroad as well as metropolitan bridges and tunnels Trains to New York arrive at Grand Central Station or Pennsylvania Station. Visitors arriving at these stations can take either public transportation or a taxi north to the campus. Amtrak Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) - for information about New York City Transit, Long Island Rail Road, Long Island Bus, Metro-North Railroad as well as metropolitan bridges and tunnels Long Island Railroad New Jersey Transit The Henry Hudson Parkway (West Side Highway) in New York City runs parallel to the Hudson River and offers convenient access to Teachers College. The highway can be reached from most of the main routes entering New York City. The nearest major highway link to it is Interstate Highway 95 (I-95). Whether driving north or south on the Henry Hudson Parkway/West Side Highway, exit at 95th Street. At the first traffic light, turn north (left) onto Riverside Drive; at 120th Street turn east (right) and go two blocks east to the College. The main entrance is located midway between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue, on the north side of West 120th Street. Parking While West 120th Street offers metered parking on both sides of the street, parking on New York City streets in the Columbia University area is limited. Nearby off-street parking facilities include (Please call garages directly for current prices and reservations): Morningside Garage, 3100 Broadway (at 123rd Street), (212) 864-9877 E & B Operating Corp., 137 West 108th Street (between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues), (212) 865-8315 Park Yorkshire Garage, 151 West 108th Street (between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues), (212) 865-2314 Upper Westside Parking Garage, 234 West 108th Street (between Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway), (212) 222-8800 Riverside Church Garage, 120th Street (between Riverside Drive and Claremont Avenue), (212) 870-6736 Evening parking is available at Riverside Church (call (212) 866-1000 Bus transportation into New York City from neighboring states and communities usually terminates at Port Authority Bus Terminal, at West 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue. Within New York City, four bus routes include a stop at West 120th Street and Broadway (Teachers College): M4 (available from both Grand Central Station and Penn Station), M5, M11, and the M104 (available from the Port Authority Bus Terminal). The fare required is exact change in coins or Metrocard. MTA website — New York City Transit, Long Island Rail Road, Long Island Bus, Metro-North Railroad as well as metropolitan bridges and tunnels. Three international airports connect with convenient bus and taxi New York City. From John F. Kennedy Airport and LaGuardia Airport, economical bus service to Grand Central Terminal and various Manhattan hotels is available. Also from LaGuardia Airport, there is a more direct bus service (M60) to West 116th Street and Broadway. From Newark Airport, there is New Jersey Transit bus service to the Port Authority Bus Terminal. Although New York City cabs operate on mileage meters, cab fares can vary with traffic conditions. The average one-way fare from John F. Kennedy Airport is approximately $45.00, one way from LaGuardia Airport is about $25.00. Designated airport passenger pick-up areas usually have cab dispatchers available to assist you. Airports - The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Campus Maps The campus consists of 5 residence halls and 8 interconnected buildings. Take time to explore the campus and neighborhood and to admire the Gothic architecture dating back to the early 19th Century. Whether you are a part-time or full-time student, we encourage you to become familiar with not only the campus, but also the entire neighborhood. Entrance Level Map Ground Level Map All-Gender Restrooms And Lactation Rooms Morningside Campus Map Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links