Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Data Science Initiative Home About Academics Research Resources News Events Site Navigation Home About Executive Committee Faculty Postdocs Staff Campus Advisory Board Affiliated Faculty Jobs @ DSI Academics Master's Degree Apply Curriculum Student Experience Career Outcomes FAQ Doctoral Certificate Fifth-Year Master's Degree Certificate in Data Fluency Data Science Fellows Research DSI-Funded Research Data Science Research @ Brown TRIPODS Programs People Resources Activities & Opportunities Learning Resources Data Science and COVID-19 News Events Fair February Data Science Research Seminar Series Faculty for Faculty Research Talks Decoding Pandemic Data: A Series of Interactive Seminars Past Events News Digital Healthcare: A look into the risks and benefits Fri Apr 29 by Emma Coleman On Wednesday, April 13, Brown University was treated to a "fireside chat" between Dr. Megan Ranney and Dr. Eric Perakslis. Read more Connecting with the Community through Data Science Wed Mar 30 by Rachel Avram Brown’s Data Fluency Certificate provides undergraduate students with the opportunity to gain fundamental conceptual knowledge and technical skills in data analysis. Read more Data Science Fellow Spotlight Thu Mar 3 By SAMUEL MURK CAYA Ainsley Clapp (Class of 2022) is a concentrator in Social Analysis and Research (SAR). Read more Shaking things up: Karianne Bergen uses machine learning to improve seismology Fri Jan 28 BY MEG LOPES Karianne Bergen, Assistant Professor of Data Science and Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences at Brown recently sat down with Sam Charrington on his podcast, "The TWIML AI Podcast" to discuss machine learning for earthquake seismology. Read more Data Science Fellows in Action Thu Jan 20 By Samuel Murk Caya Brown’s Data Science Fellows program pairs faculty members with Brown undergraduates who have data science skills and experience to bring to the project. Read more Data Science making an impact at Brown Wed Nov 24 The Brown University Financial Report for fiscal year 2021 (which ended June 30, 2021) highlights the exciting work in data science happening on campus in the “Making an Impact" section. Read more Five Questions for Suresh Venkatasubramanian Thu Nov 4 An introduction to DSI's newest faculty member The Data Science Initiative is welcoming its newest faculty member this year. Read more Data Science Fellows help create language learning tool Mon Oct 18 By Samuel Murk Caya Data and data science techniques are increasingly relevant in a wide range of disciplines. Read more Officially Announcing DSI Director Sohini Ramachandran Thu Aug 19 About one year ago, DSI announced a new interim director, Sohini Ramachandran. Today, we are happy to announce that Professor Ramachandran is officially Director of the Data Science Initiative. Below is Provost Locke's email announcement. Dear Colleagues, Read more The Rise of Data Journalism Thu Jul 15 Photo credit: Wellcome Collection The Rise of Data Journalism by Emilia Ruzicka Read more Pages 1 2 3 next › last » Donate to DSI Inquire about our Master's Program Sign Up for Our Newsletter Data Science Initiative Data Science Initiative Brown University Box 1891 164 Angell Street 3rd Floor Providence, RI 02912-1891 Phone: 401-863-6959 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top