Skip to main content Kenneth P. Dietrich School ofArts & Sciences Toggle navigation Search form Search About Departments & Programs Diversity Contact Liberal Arts Core Our world-class faculty and programs in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences constitute the liberal arts core of the University of Pittsburgh. Broad Range of Courses You'll benefit from a broad range of Dietrich School courses as well a wide array of educational opportunities at the University and across the city and the region. Outstanding Faculty Our faculty lead disciplinary, interdisciplinary, and crossdisciplinary research and scholarship in the Dietrich School and across the University. Preparing Our Students As an undergraduate, your educational experience will prepare you for life, learning, and work in the increasingly global world you will inherit. Robust Graduate Program We offer MA, MS, MFA, and PhD programs in 34 concentrations as well as interdisciplinary programs to 1,500 students from around the world. Successful Alumni Our alumni profoundly impact and enhance their communities as well as the knowledge economies of our city, the region, and the world. Prospective Students Are you a prospective student? At the Dietrich School, we'll help you write your success story. Discover how your story begins. Undergraduate Students Whether you're beginning your undergraduate career, nearing graduation, or somewhere in between there's "more" to your story. Graduate Students Graduate students come to the Dietrich School for outstanding educational opportunities and stay for the balanced life: school, family, work, recreation, and service. Faculty Our world-class faculty members are leaders in research and scholarship in their respective disciplines. Discover resources for current and prospective faculty members. Staff Dietrich School staff are essential members of our community, and they play a critical role in ensuring student and faculty success. Find personal and professional development opportunities for staff members. Alumni As one of 90,000 alumni representing 42 academic departments and programs, you're invited to learn more about opportunities to engage in the life of the school while you write the rest of your story. Prospective Students Are you a prospective student? At the Dietrich School, we'll help you write your success story. Discover how your story begins. Undergraduate Students Whether you're beginning your undergraduate career, nearing graduation, or somewhere in between there's "more" to your story. Graduate Students Graduate students come to the Dietrich School for outstanding educational opportunities and stay for the balanced life: school, family, work, recreation, and service. Faculty Our world-class faculty members are leaders in research and scholarship in their respective disciplines. Discover resources for current and prospective faculty members. Staff Dietrich School staff are essential members of our community, and they play a critical role in ensuring student and faculty success. Find personal and professional development opportunities for staff members. Alumni As one of 90,000 alumni representing 42 academic departments and programs, you're invited to learn more about opportunities to engage in the life of the school while you write the rest of your story. Home Headlines & Highlights View All News Dietrich School Historian Wins Stubbendieck Great Plains Distinguished Book Prize Alaina E. Roberts, a faculty member in the Dietrich School's Department of History, has been awarded the Stubbendieck Great Plains Distinguished Book Prize for her first book, “I've Been Here All the While: Black Freedom on Native Land.” The prize celebrates the most outstanding work about the Great Plains during the past year and is accompanied by a medal and a $10,000 check. Dietrich School Historian Keisha N. Blain Named 2022 Andrew Carnegie Fellow Associate Professor of History Keisha N. Blain has been named a 2022 Andrew Carnegie Fellow. The award supports highly original research in the humanities and social sciences that has the potential for both impact in the scholar’s field and wide public appeal. Dietrich School Undergraduate Named 2022 Goldwater Scholar Katie Oppenheimer, a junior microbiology major in the Dietrich School, joins an impressive community of 417 students selected for the Goldwater scholarship from across the United States for the 2022-23 academic year. Snapshot e-newsletter Virtual Tour of Our Signature Places and Spaces Virtual Tour Kenneth P. Dietrich School of Arts & Sciences 917 Cathedral of Learning Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Resources Media Guide Event Resources Faculty Directory Course Descriptions Undergraduate Majors Dietrich School Bulletin KennyNet (Dietrich School Intranet, Password Protected) Virtual Tour Pitt & Community Resources for Students Revised 05/31/22Copyright 2022