Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Hiring, Hosting and Admitting » Hosting Visitors and Delegations Set Navigation title in component Hiring International Workers Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Hosting International Visitors and Delegations The University of Cincinnati brings many international visitors to campus each year to teach, conduct research, give lectures or performances, and form collaborations. All international visitors (anyone not a US Citizen / Permanent Resident) are required by university policy to be officially entered into iBearcatsGlobal. Why? Their visit is officially reported and recorded. The visitor is pre-screened for Export Controls purposes. The visitor is eligible to receive payments, if eligible in their current immigration status. The visitor is cleared to provide the service or have access to UC facilities and research. I am hosting... an international visitor who will be paid, reimbursed or given an honoraria an international vistor who will not be paid a visiting delegation from an international institution Typical Visitor Visa Statuses University of Cincinnati departments sponsor the visits of many international visitors providing “limited services” on a temporary basis, including guest lecturing or performances. These individuals typically come on a tourist status, including B-1, B-2 and visa waiver status. B-1 Visitor for Business right arrow down arrow The B-1 classification allows international visitors to come to the United States temporarily to engage in a variety of business-related activities like conventions, conferences, consultations, etc. It does not include employment. Honoraria for lectures, performances, and consultations are permitted, provided the stay at UC will not exceed 9 days the international visitor has not received such payments from more than 5 other institutions during the previous 6 months. Reimbursement for travel and living expenses are permitted regardless of the duration of stay. B-2 Visitor for Tourism right arrow down arrow The B-2 classification allows international visitors to come to the United States temporarily to engage in activities of a recreational nature, including tourism, amusement, visits with friends and relatives, medical treatment, etc. Honoraria for lectures, performances, consultations, etc. as well as reimbursement for travel and living expenses are permitted as long as the stay at UC does not exceed 9 days the international visitor has not received such payments from more than 5 other institutions during the previous 6 months Visa Waiver Program right arrow down arrow The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) allows citizens of designated countries to apply for admission to the United States as visitors without first obtaining a nonimmigrant visa from a US consulate. Use of the VWP is limited to business visitors (who would normally hold “B-1” visas) and to visitors for tourism (usually holding “B-2” visas). The following countries have been designated to participate: Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brunei, Chile, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, San Marino, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and United Kingdom. Visitors must apply for entry authorization using the Department of Homeland Security’s Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA) database at least 72 hours before their scheduled departure. Honorarium payments are permitted if the stay at UC will not exceed 9 days the international visitor has not received such payments from more than 5 other institutions during the preceding 6 months International visitors on visa waiver for business (WB) can receive reimbursement for travel and living expenses regardless of the length of stay. International visitors on the visa waiver for tourism (WT) can only receive reimbursement if the stay does not exceed 9 days. Virtual Activities right arrow down arrow If you are inviting a Non-US Citizen/Non-Permanent Resident (Green Card) to perform a lecture, performance, or any paid activity virtually, it is important to ascertain if the guest will carry out this activity while outside the US or in the US. If in the US, see the Limited Services Engagements section. If outside the US The department submits the following into UC Flex as part of the electronic submission for Accounts Payable (A/P): Limited Services Engagement Form Foreign Visitor Supplement A letter from the department that invited them here which describes the services the visitor is providing and what you are paying them to do Check the box that states the visitor is a Non-US Citizen/Non-Permanent Resident (Green Card) In the “Note” section of the A/P request, state that the guest performed these activities while outside the US When you submit his request in UC Flex, UC International will review the request, approve it and forward it the UC Tax Compliance Office, who will then forward it to A/P. Limited Services Engagements If you will be hosting an international visitor and paying them an honoraria: Add the visitor to iBearcatsGlobal using the “Add a Person” function. If you do not have access to iBearcatsGlobal you can apply for access. Submit the “Other Immigration Statuses” eForm in iBearcatsGlobal for the visitor. UC International will email you upon approval and list any other required documentation. Payments The types of payments that can be made depend upon the immigration status of the international visitor. Requests for payments typically take five business days to process and may not be submitted to Accounts Payable until: The international visitor has been entered into iBearcatsGlobal. The visitor physically enters the US. The department submits the following into UC Flex as part of the electronic submission for Accounts Payable (A/P): Limited Services Engagement Form Foreign Visitor Supplement Copies of the visitor's passport, visa (if they have one) and I-94 record (which the visitor can download) A letter from the department that invited him here which describes the services the visitor is providing and what you are paying them to do Check the box that states the visitor is a Non-US Citizen / Non-Permanent Resident (Green Card) When you submit the Payment Request, UC International will review the request, approve it and forward it to the UC Tax Compliance office, who will then forward it to A/P. Is the visitor eligible for payment based on their visa status? right arrow down arrow When you are hosting an international visitor, we recommend: Asking the visitor their current or intended immigration status. Verify if they have an appropriate status to be compensated. Note that the provided chart is not an exhaustive list and can change at any given time by USCIS. If you have questions, contact UC International. What expenses should I document and submit? right arrow down arrow Ordinary documentation of expenses includes such things as hotel/airline receipts, mileage figures, meal receipts, etc. Documentation of expenses should be submitted when there is an additional payment (honoraria, etc.) being requested. Does the visitor need to meet with UC International? right arrow down arrow Unless the visitor is being paid through the UC payroll, which requires onboarding, there is no need for the visitor to meet with UC International in person. Non-Paid Visitors and Delegations For individual visitors: Create an iBearcatsGlobal record for the prospective visitor using the “Add New Person” function. Submit the “Visiting Scholar Request (unpaid visitors)" in iBearcatsGlobal. Please follow the instructions provided in the How to Use UC International Services eForm section. For visiting delegations (more than one visitor coming from the same institution), use the Visiting Delegations eForm to get the visitors on record with our office. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top