Skip to main content Search Giving Contact Make a Gift Cullen College of Engineering Civil and Environmental Engineering Main menu About CEE Chairman's Message Mission Newsroom Newsletter Contact Us Programs Undergraduate Accreditation Admissions Advising Minor in Geomatics Scholarships Student Activities Civil Graduate Master of Science (MSCE) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Environmental Graduate Master of Science (MSEE) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Non-engineers Certificate Programs Geosensing Systems Graduate Master of Science (MSGEO) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Online Graduate Degrees Admissions Undergraduate Engineering Admissions Criteria UH Admissions Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Facilities and Laboratories Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations People Faculty Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Members Academy of Distinguished Civil & Environmental Engineers Resources Forms Scholarships FE-PE/P&P Review Series Graduate Tuition Fellowships (GTF) Online Programs UH-Extend Civil Online MS Online Programs at the Cullen College UH Civil and Environmental Engineering We are re-envisioning infrastructure from structural, geotechnical, environmental, mechanics, and geosensing and hydrosystems perspectives to improve America's Infrastructure Report Card. Our academic programs enable specialization in any of these domains and across disciplines. Be part of UH CEE. UH Civil and Environmental Engineering We are re-envisioning infrastructure from structural, geotechnical, environmental, mechanics, and geosensing and hydrosystems perspectives to improve America's Infrastructure Report Card. Our academic programs enable specialization in any of these domains and across disciplines. Be part of UH CEE. Welcome to the UH Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering We are located in Houston, Texas; a city with one of the highest concentrations of civil and environmental engineering companies in the country. Our educational programs offer unique opportunities for a successful career start. The Department has approximately 234 undergraduates and 182 graduate students pursuing BSCE, MS, MCE and PhD degrees in civil and environmental engineering. Research Excellence Environmental Addressing National Academy of Engineering challenges in addition to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), faculty in the… Learn more Geosensing Faculty in Geosensing in our Department lead the nation in geospatial engineering and technologies using state-of-the-art sensors. They are experts… Learn more Geotechnical and Materials Encompassing geotechnical, materials and geo-environmental, faculty in the Department are researching novel characterization methods of composite… Learn more Hydrosystems Our faculty are at the forefront of research in water resources, hydrology, natural disasters, and hydrodynamics of fluid systems. They are… Learn more Infrastructure Research in this domain encompasses design of structures, retrofitting and rehab of transportation networks and infrastructure, failure analysis and… Learn more Mechanics Faculty in mechanics are developing mathematical formulations and analysis, as well as computational techniques for problems in structural, solid,… Learn more View Faculty By Research Area In The News ME, IE grad programs improve in latest U.S. News & World Report rankings More News Faculty Accolades CEE's Kalliontzis receives 2 grants to study concrete performance More Faculty Accolades Student Success CEE doctoral student El Awad earns Eisenhower fellowship More Student Success Upcoming Seminars Learn More Announcements Learn More Faculty Openings Learn More Earn your master's degree in civil engineering online Solve current and future challenges found in the present day civil engineering industry. Learn More Civil Engineering Graduate Program The graduate program in Civil Engineering offers programs of study in Geotechnical Engineering, Hydrosystems Engineering, Structural Engineering, and Water Resources Engineering. Learn More Environmental Engineering Graduate Program The Environmental Engineering program offers the degrees of Master of Science (M.S.), with thesis and non-thesis options, and the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). Learn More As seen on the National Geographic Channel Geosensing Systems Engineering program The Geosensing Systems Engineering program offers the degrees of Master of Science (M.S.), with thesis and non-thesis options, and the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). Learn More As seen on the National Geographic Channel ACADEMY OF DISTINGUISHED CIVIL & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS The Academy of Distinguished Civil & Environmental Engineers (Academy) is dedicated to recognizing outstanding alumni who bring honor to the Civil & Environmental Engineering department at UH and have sustained distinguished contributions to the profession, field, the university, or society at large. Learn More Fast Facts Top 100 GRADUATE PROGRAM 418 STUDENTS IN PROGRAM 20 TENURE TRACK FACULTY Contact University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering Engineering Building 1, Room N107 4226 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-4003 Phone: 713-743-4250 Contact Us Quick Links About CEE Programs Admissions Research People Resources Online Programs MAKE A GIFT ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. UH Home Academic Calendar Campus Maps Emergency UH System Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies About CEE Chairman's Message Mission Newsroom Newsletter Contact Us Programs Undergraduate Accreditation Admissions Advising Minor in Geomatics Scholarships Student Activities Civil Graduate Master of Science (MSCE) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Environmental Graduate Master of Science (MSEE) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Non-engineers Certificate Programs Geosensing Systems Graduate Master of Science (MSGEO) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Online Graduate Degrees Admissions Undergraduate Engineering Admissions Criteria UH Admissions Civil Engineering Environmental Engineering Research Research Areas Faculty Expertise Facilities and Laboratories Centers and Consortia Seminars Theses and Dissertations Industrial Relations People Faculty Staff Students Alumni Advisory Board Members Academy of Distinguished Civil & Environmental Engineers Resources Forms Scholarships FE-PE/P&P Review Series Graduate Tuition Fellowships (GTF) Online Programs UH-Extend Civil Online MS Online Programs at the Cullen College