Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities UW Bookstore UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Points of Pride UW Pride is more than just colorful clothing—it’s a bold attitude that draws on a rich heritage of education, exploration and enterprise, and symbolizes the spirit of the West. UW celebrates the achievements of the individuals who represent our institution including students, faculty, staff, alumni and donors, as well as its unique bond with the people of Wyoming. UW Pride also showcases our commitment to excellence in facilities and programs supported by public and private contributions, ranging from the Michael B. Enzi STEM facility and the Buchanan Center for Performing Arts to the Top-Tier Science Initiative and Trustees Education Initiative. Learn hard, play hard. For more than 100 years, Pokes fans have been cheering on their favorite UW athletic teams while sporting their best Brown and Gold. Our outstanding student-athletes compete in both NCAA Division I-A and club sports, and strive for excellence on and off the field. Go Pokes! 10 Reasons to be a Cowboy Top tier education at an excellent value A low student-to-faculty ratio of 15:1 Nationally recognized research institution An unmatched study abroad scholarship program 200+ student organizations and volunteer opportunities World-class educational and research facilities Competitive Division I-A athletic programs Make global connections through the UW network of Alumni Outreach and support to every corner of Wyoming and beyond Recognized as a top outdoor adventure school UW Students At a Glance Where we come from We hail from all 50 states and 90 countries, and 59% of us are from the great state of Wyoming. Enjoy a global education with a small-town feel. We find support along the way We can apply for $42.6 million in available scholarships or even get aid to study abroad virtually anywhere in the world. Caring faculty and staff members help us make the most of UW’s opportunities We study hard and love to learn Before enrolling, we earned an average high school GPA of 3.46 and a 24.5 average ACT score. At UW, we enjoy free tutoring and support services to help ensure our continued success. What we study We choose from 80 undergraduate and 90 graduate programs of study and study abroad in 50 countries each year. A broad offering of quality programs means we can find the perfect match for our interests. Top of the Summit Firsts, Bests, Only Traditions Anniversaries UW History The Gem City of Wyoming The University of Wyoming was founded in 1886, when Wyoming was still a territory. In September 1887, UW opened its doors to 42 students and five faculty members – as befitted the university of “The Equality State” both the students and faculty included women from the first day. Built on the outskirts of town in Laramie’s city park, Old Main was UW’s first building and held classes, the library, and administrative offices during the first years of the university’s existence. The first university president, John Wesley Hoyt, established a curriculum focused on arts and humanities and created a graduate and normal school. Additionally, as Wyoming’s land-grant institution, the university taught courses in agriculture, engineering and military tactics. UW has since grown into a major teaching and research university with approximately 13,500 students and more than 700 faculty members. Throughout its existence, UW has been the only four-year university in the state of Wyoming, though it has maintained a close relationship with the state’s community colleges. Programs such as athletics, agricultural extension, state and federal partnerships—and more recent initiatives such as the School of Energy Resources and the NCAR-Wyoming Supercomputing Center—have played important roles in the lives of many Wyoming residents and communities for almost 125 years. University Archives at the American Heritage Center is a great resource to access historical materials about important events and thousands of photographs in its online digital collections. Explore our Community Explore Our History Connecting Wyoming to the World: A History of the University of Wyoming Virtual Exhibit UW By The Numbers We're Eager to Help Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu Need a directory? Search the UW directory for faculty, staff and departments. 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility