COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. WSU holding spring commencement ceremonies May 12, 2022 — More than 2,400 students are eligible to participate in the 124th spring commencement ceremonies Saturday, May 14, at Wichita State University. Ceremonies will be held in Charles Koch Arena. Pamela and Alex Ammar honored with Fairmount Founders' Award their support of WSU May 6, 2022 — Pamela Clancy Ammar and Alex Ammar were named recipients of the 2022 Fairmount Founders’ Award at the annual Fairmount Society dinner held on May 5 at Mark Arts. The WSU Foundation gives the award out annually to recognize those who provide outstanding service and generosity to Wichita State University. Shocker Hall goes green with composting program April 21, 2022 —There’s a whole world living inside your food waste — billions and billions of microorganisms — just waiting to make your landscaping bloom brighter and your vegetables grow heartier. Former Wichita State First Lady Deborah Bardo dies April 15, 2022 — Deborah J. (Davis) Bardo, former first lady of Wichita State University, died April 15, 2022. Mrs. Bardo was married to WSU’s 13th president, Dr. John Bardo, for 44 years until his death on March 12, 2019. She is survived by their son, Christopher. Two Wichita State alumni win U.S. Presidential Awards for Excellence April 7, 2022 — Two Wichita-area teachers who graduated from Wichita State University’s School of Education were recently recognized for their outstanding work in the classroom by the White House with the Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching. New esports director brings his vision of gaming to Wichita State March 30, 2022 - The vision for varsity esports at Wichita State encompasses much more than people gaming on Cybertron Computers and wearing a Logitech Headset. While gaming success is important, the program is also seen as way to provide extra-curricular activity and applied learning for students in disciplines across campus. Travis Yang, hired in December as WSU’s Esports director, wants to build a program that follows that direction. Wichita State alums regard Ukraine as a second home: 'It rips your heart out' March 7, 2022 - Wichita State alums Matt and Stephanie Clark taught English to students from fifth grade to high school in Ukraine from 2006-08 as Peace Corps members. Their friends and their warm memories are in turmoil as the Russian invasion wears on in their adopted country. They rely on social media to hear from former students, host families and friends, as they try to sort good information from bad and bring attention to the crisis. Shocker alum with Ukrainian ties prepares to help in refugee crisis March 4, 2022 - Nelsen Petersen, a Wichita State alum, is a high school teacher, author, filmmaker and running enthusiast who developed strong connections with Ukraine during his travels. Later this month, he plans to go to Cluj-Napoca, a Romanian city near Ukraine to help in refugee camps. He wants to spend four or five days during his spring break in the region. Celebrating women who have helped build Shocker Nation March 1, 2022 — From its early days as Fairmount College, Wichita State University has celebrated a rich history of women who have worked to build a better community and a better world. In commemoration of Women’s History Month, we’ve compiled a list of just a few of the women who have contributed to the greatness of Shocker Nation. $3 million gift from J. Robert Young dedicated to WSU student success Feb. 23, 2022 — Wichita State alumnus J. Robert Young has pledged a gift of $3 million to provide resources that will help students build successful careers. Of that total, $2 million will endow the J. Robert Young Executive-in-Residence Program in the W. Frank Barton School of Business. The remaining $1 million will support the Shocker Success Center project, which will consolidate 17 student services in Clinton Hall. Shocker alum receiving honorary doctorate for distinguished achievement in technology Dec. 9, 2021 -- Khalid Raza has never forgotten his Shocker roots. Now the chief executive officer of Graphiant, a next-generation networking technology company based in San Francisco, Raza’s first independent start-up began in 1992 when he was working as a graduate assistant at Wichita State University. WSU announces new esports director Dec. 7, 2021 — The College of Applied Studies at Wichita State University announced today that Travis Yang has been hired as the new director of varsity esports. AAC Career Fair brings together schools, students and employers from across the country Oct. 21, 2021 - The Shocker Career Accelerator organized the AAC Virtual Career Fair on Oct. 28 (10 a.m.-5 p.m.). All 11 full members of the American Athletic Conference will participate (although the event is not connected to the athletic departments or conference). How journalists remember their work on 1970 WSU plane crash coverage Sept. 27, 2021 — Local journalists tell their story of covering and remember those lost in the 1970 Wichita State University plane crash. 1 2 3 4 5 ... Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©