Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Update Sharing news for the faculty, staff, and trainees of Columbia University Irving Medical Center. View previous issues of CUIMC Update. Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories CUIMC Update - June 1, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News Hepatitis Outbreak Among Kids: What Parents Should Know Health authorities around the world are investigating rare cases of children with severe hepatitis of unknown cause. Mercedes Martinez, MD, explains. Topic Pediatrics 3 Myths About Celiac Disease The nutritionists at Columbia University’s Celiac Disease Center have heard every myth about celiac disease, even from their own patients. Topic Campus News Latest News CUIMC Honors MLK With Bold Conversations on Race January 14, 2022 At a virtual event honoring the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., senior faculty shared experiences and offered advice for making a difference. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Omicron Update: Thoughts From Columbia’s Infectious Diseases Chief January 10, 2022 Just two months after omicron emerged on the scene, many of the uncertainties about the new variant are starting to become clear. Topic COVID-19 CUIMC Update - Jan. 10, 2022 January 10, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News As Equity and Justice Fellows, VP&S Students Work Toward Anti-Racist Medical Curriculum January 10, 2022 Columbia medical students chosen as equity and justice fellows are cultivating change by applying an anti-racist lens to the VP&S curriculum. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Jan. 4, 2022 January 4, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News Anthony Ferrante Jr. Named to New Research Role at Diabetes Center January 4, 2022 Anthony W. Ferrante Jr., MD, PhD, a longtime faculty member at Columbia, has been appointed associate director of research at the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center. Topic Campus News Babies Born During Pandemic’s First Year Score Slightly Lower on a Developmental Screening Test January 4, 2022 Babies born during the pandemic’s first year—even to moms who did not have COVID during pregnancy—scored slightly lower on a screening test of social and motor skills compared to pre-pandemic babies. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - Dec. 20, 2021 December 20, 2021 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News CUIMC Faculty Receive Provost’s Grants Through Diversity, Anti-Racism Programs December 20, 2021 Several CUIMC faculty members have received grants through two Provost Office programs that recognize efforts to contribute to diversity and anti-racism goals. Topic Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion CUIMC Opens Office of Professionalism December 20, 2021 A new Office of Professionalism will help build an organizational culture and climate of excellence, empathy, accountability, respect, and diversity for all members of the CUIMC community. Topic Campus News Pages first previous … 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top