Skip to main content Skip to main content My Account My Account Give Give Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Libraries Find & Borrow Research & Teaching Locations & Collections Visit SMU Libraries About Get Help Find & Borrow Find Books Journals & Newspapers Articles Films Music Scores & Recordings Borrow & Request Checkout & Renew Interlibrary Loan Request a Purchase Guest Services Alumni Services Research Card Research & Teaching Scholarship & Publishing GIS@SMU SMU Scholar Research Data Digital Scholarship Scholarly Impact & Publishing Copyright Teaching Support Library Materials for Courses Classroom Instruction Assignment Design Online Guides & Tutorials Locations & Collections Libraries Bridwell Library Business Library DeGolyer Library Fondren Library Hamon Arts Library Underwood Law Library Fort Burgwin Library Exhibits & Digital Collections Campus Exhibits Online Exhibits Digital Collections Special Collections & Archives Visit Visit Hours Maps & Parking Technology & Printing Policies Accessibility Spaces Places to Study Graduate Student Spaces Lockers Class & Event Spaces About About Us Staff Directory Dean's Office Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Accessibility Faculty & Student Awards Join Us Staff & Student Employment Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Connect with Us News Events Social Media Contact Us Get Help Ask Us (email, chat, text, call) Research Guides by Discipline How Do I . . . ? Guides Find Your Librarian Attend Workshops Writing Support ☰ Student Advisory Board Your Library. Your Voice. Libraries Join Us Student Advisory Board The librarians work hard to ensure that all students are happy and successful while spending time at the Hilltop—because of this, my time at SMU has been greatly impacted for the better. Brynn Price, Student Advisory Board Member, 2021 The Student Advisory Board works together to provide the diverse SMU student community with library spaces, services and collections that meet and exceed the needs of all students. Board Members have the opportunity to: Convey student needs, concerns and priorities to the Libraries Provide advice and feedback on library policies, services and spaces Share ideas and input on design and implementation of new library services Share insights into student study, research and library use Help communicate information about library services and resources to the student community All SMU students are eligible to apply for the Board. Representation from across all colleges and schools is a priority. Appointments are made in fall and spring. Meetings are held monthly in the fall (September, October, and November) and spring (February, March, and April). Join Us Staff & Student Employment SMU Libraries Internships Student Advisory Board Friends of SMU Libraries Contact Elizabeth Killingsworth Associate Dean of SMU Libraries and Director of Fondren Library elizabethk@smu.edu 214-768-3686 Maps & Directions | Contact Us | Feedback Accessibility | Legal Disclosures © SMU Libraries, PO Box 750135, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share