Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY RESTORATIVE DENTISTRY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 RES D 550 P-Directed Studies in Restorative Dentistry (*, max. 6) See DPHS 449 for course description. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 550 RES D 570 Review of Literature Seminar (1, max. 6) Continuous weekly seminar devoted to a review of restorative and related literature, and discussion of teaching methods, philosophy of teaching, and treatment. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 570 RES D 580 Restorative Treatment Planning Seminar (1-, max. 8) Continuous weekly seminar to discuss controversial treatment problems and difficult diagnostic cases selected for graduate students. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 580 RES D 582 Prosthodontics Current Literature Review (1, max. 8) This course satisfies the educational requirement for the resident to have an in-depth knowledge of current literature. Graduate Prosthodontics students will be assigned one article per week from a list of peer-reviewed journals. Each student will present a short (less than 10 min) discussion of the paper along with a written abstract. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 582 RES D 585 Advanced Dental Materials Science (2) Advanced concepts of dental materials science including physical, mechanical, chemical, and biological properties of restorative dental materials. Emphasis also on research design, testing methods, and proper selection of dental materials for clinical practice. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 585 RES D 588 Masticatory Functional Analysis and Occlusal Adjustment (2) Lecture/seminar and clinical sessions in the study of the physiology of occlusion. Pertinent literature reviewed and discussed from the multidisciplinary viewpoint. The clinical sessions include training in masticatory functional analysis and treatment of occlusally related diseases. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 588 RES D 589 Review of Literature in Occlusion (2) Seminar to review pertinent literature in occlusion. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 589 RES D 590 Fundamentals of Fixed Prosthodontics (2-, max. 4) Lecture/laboratory/clinical sessions in the study of gnathological principles and procedures as they pertain to the treatment of comprehensive cases assigned to the students. Use and application of several articulators. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 590 RES D 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of Graduate Program Adviser. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 600 RES D 620 P-Comprehensive Treatment Planning in Restorative Dentistry (3) Orientation to restorative clinical operations, administrative procedures associated with patient management, and formulation of treatment plans. Emphasizes problem-based learning, treatment outcomes, the sequence of clinical treatment, and the diagnosis and management of dental disease. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 620 RES D 650 Restorative Dentistry Clinical Elective (1-6, max. 12) Elective offering in clinical areas related to discipline. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 650 RES D 653 Clinical Magnification - Selective (1) Faculty and affiliate members from the Department of Restorative Dentistry and Endodontics will participate with senior dental students in this active learning course, which will include didactic and clinical experiences in the provision of oral health care using high level magnification. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 653 RES D 655 Peer Mentor Restorative Dentistry - Selective (1, max. 12) Senior dental students participate as Peer Mentors for 1st and 2nd year dental students in various per-clinical Restorative Dentistry courses. This experience builds upon, enhances and refines the students in Peer Mentoring. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 655 RES D 660 Oral Rehabilitation ([1-6]-, max. 32) Clinical course to provide experience in diagnosis and treatment of patients requiring restorative procedures from single restorations to complex oral rehabilitative methods. Special emphasis is directed toward the integration of periodontics and occlusion as they relate to restorative dentistry. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 660 RES D 662 CAD/CAM in Restorative Dentistry - Selective (1, max. 4) Provides a systematic approach to learn about incorporating digital impression systems and CAD/CAM technology. Discuss ideal tooth preparation for all CAD/CAM restorations, digital impression, virtually design, sintering and staining technique, and selecting the proper ceramic materials and luting agents. Discuss the benefits and drawbacks of these digital technologies and how digital dentistry can be brought into our future practice. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 662 RES D 663 Advanced Operative Dentistry through Conservative Cast Gold - Selective (1) This course builds upon, enhances and refines the students Operative Dentistry skill sets via the design, preparation and seating of indirect, conservative cast gold restorations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 663 RES D 664 Lasers in Restorative Dentistry (1) Provides an overview of lasers, especially in the discipline of Restorative Dentistry, including: applications of laser devices for dental purposes, effects of laser irradiation on healthy tooth tissues, the effect of lasers on carious structures, vital pulp therapy, and the application of laser-initiated reversible cement. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 664 RES D 665 Advanced Clinical Geriatric Dentistry - Selective (1) Provides students with additional clinical experience in comprehensive dental treatment of medically compromised and dentally complex geriatric patients. Prerequisite: one geriatrics rotation in either DENTGP 653, DENTGP 663, or DENTGP 673. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 665 RES D 672 Direct Gold Restorations - Selective (2) Lectures cover historical information and the technical requirements for commonly used direct gold restorations. Emphasis on the special requirements in cavity detail and insertion methods for successful accomplishment of direct gold restorations. Students will gain experience in the Class 1, Class 5, and Class 6 restorations. Additionally, didactic information will be presented in the Class 6, Class 2, and Class 3 restorations. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: RES D 672 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022