Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Salina Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Salina Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Salina Academics School of Medicine Salina Academics Academics Premedical Programs MD Program Admission & Aid Curriculum Lukert Society Student and Faculty Awards Standardized Patient Program Student Affairs Student Affairs Policies and Procedures Counseling and Support Services Health Care for Students About About From the Dean Faculty & Staff Salina Facilities Our Community Contact Information Make a Gift Academics Standardized Patient Program The clinical skills program at the KU School of Medicine in Salina is designed to help students become proficient in the skills required to communicate with patients and colleagues, and learning to perform medical procedures. Skills encounters are done in a safe and controlled environment and the University hires standardized patients who are specifically trained to assist the students in their learning process. The space has two dedicated clinic-style exam rooms, a simulation lab, and a larger lab for workshops. Students will work with standardized patients in a number of capacities, from training to perform a specific exam to differentiating and diagnosing a specific condition. The clinical skills encounters are non-invasive and are also recorded for learning purposes. Students will learn to take a patient's history, conduct physical exams, and create electronic records. Standardized patients are also given the opportunity to share feedback with our students and participate in debriefing sessions. Contact Information If you are interested in working with our medical students and becoming a standardized patient, please check for our periodic postings on the KU Medical Center careers website. Compensation, Profile Form and Handbook Earn up to $20 an hour as a Standardized Patient at KU School of Medicine-Salina campus. Standardized Patient Handbook (PDF) KU School of Medicine-Salina KU School of Medicine-Salina Health Education Center 138 N. Santa Fe Salina, KS 67401 Phone: 785-822-0400 KU School of Medicine-Salina Facebook page Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.