Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Research : Research Labs & Learning Facilities Research Labs & Learning Facilities Research conducted at the iSchool is highly interdisciplinary and investigates a diverse range of topics at the intersection of people, information, and technology. There are a wide variety of research equipment and lab spaces available at the iSchool. Some labs are open regular hours and others require a reservation, but all are available for student use. Our Research Research Areas Grants & Awards Research Labs AI Health Lab The AI Health Lab is led by Dr. Ying Ding and Dell Medical School Professor Justin Rousseau. Composed of scholars and students from different fields and disciplines, their research includes, but is not limited to: AI in Health, AI in Medicine, and Data-Driven Science. Learn More Critical Data Studies (CDS) Lab The Critical Data Studies (CDS) Lab explores the sociotechnical dimensions of data technologies in our lives – from scientific research and cultural heritage institutions, to social networking platforms and mobile applications. Led by Dr. Amelia Acker, the CDS Lab focuses on researching how data is collected, named, managed, applied and debated in different contexts. Learn More Human-AI Interaction Lab The Human-AI Interaction lab, led by Dr. Min Kyung Lee, aims to build just and empowering workplaces and cities by creating technology that supports and strengthens individual and collective human decision-making. We explore psychological understandings of AI and develop human-centered methods and systems for better AI-integrated workplaces, smart communities and cities, and online information. Learn More Immersive Human Development Lab The Immersive Human Development Lab, under the direction of Dr. Jakki Bailey, is a space where researchers study people’s psychological and social experiences of technology and media. In particular, they specialize in looking at virtual reality and immersive experiences with special emphasis on how they relate to questions of child and human development. Learn More Information Retrieval Lab The Information Retrieval and Crowdsourcing Lab was established to advance the state-of-the-art methodologies for search and human computation/crowdsourcing. The aim is to integrate crowdsourcing with automatic algorithms to improve search engine experiences, capabilities, and evaluation. Learn More IX Lab The Information eXperience Lab (IX Lab) is a state-of-the-art research facility dedicated to advancing our understanding of human-computer interaction (HCI), human-information processing, user experience (UX), usability, accessibility, and the interactions between humans and information sources. The lab is dedicated to the science of information studies, the empirically-based design of human-information interaction, and the education of students in the process of both. Learn More Kilgarlin Information Preservation Lab The Kilgarlin Information Preservation Lab contains a large variety of tools and equipment for examination, analysis, photo documentation, and conservation treatment of books and paper. Led by Professor Sarah Norris, the Kilgarlin Lab includes a thorough sample collection of more than 10,000 photographs and many other materials available for student use. Learn More Learning Facilities Information Commons The Information Commons provide resources and services that support learning, research, and community-building activities at the iSchool. Commons facilities are located within all iSchool locations and feature collaboration stations, access to a variety of computing hardware/software, meeting spaces, printing services and equipment check-outs. Support staff are available in all iSchool learning spaces to provide technical assistance, training, and additional access to resources. Learn More Sound Rooms There are two sound rooms located in the IT Lab. The sound rooms are small individual rooms with higher-end equipment where people can record and edit audio, edit movies, create tutorials, or even experiment with the latest voice recognition software. Learn More Computer Lab The School of Information Computer Classroom is located within the IT Lab area in room 1.210A. The classroom offers Windows and OS X computing environments and digitization equipment as well as our general classroom presentation capabilities. Learn More Digitization Suite The Digitization Suite in UTA 1.210B is used in digitization coursework. It can also serve as a small classroom for specialized course sessions, and provides a cross section of current and legacy digitization equipment for text, slides, audio, and video. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022