Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE COMPARATIVE MEDICINE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 C MED 499 Undergraduate Laboratory Research (1-6, max. 12) B. IRITANI, W. LADIGES, L. PRICE, M. RUDDELL Specific problems in comparative medicine. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 499 C MED 512 Introduction to the Anatomical Analysis of Animal Disease (2, max. 10) J. SNYDER, P. TREUTING Use of animals in experimental study of disease; techniques of animal necropsy, characterization, interpretation of gross and microscopic lesions, correlation of lesions with altered physiological processes, differentiation between naturally occurring and experimentally induced lesions. Prerequisite: PATH 444, PATH 445, or equivalent, and permission of instructor. Enrollment limited: two students per quarter. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 512 C MED 514 Comparative Pathology Conference (1, max. 6) J. SNYDER, P. TREUTING Focus on histopathology of naturally occurring and experimentally induced lesions of primates, laboratory and domestic animals, fish, wildlife, and birds. Participants discuss the lesions and the basic pathogenetic mechanisms that underline them. Prerequisite: PATH 500 or equivalent and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 514 C MED 516 Research and Literature Review Seminar (1, max. 12) C. HSU, B. IRITANI Alternates between research seminars and literature review presentations. Research seminar topics relate to basic and translational animal models. Literature review seminars involve critical evaluation of recent articles on laboratory animal medicine and other scientific or medical topics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 516 C MED 518 Clinical Conference and Comparative Pathology Seminar (1, max. 12) N. REYES, P. TREUTING Alternates between clinical veterinary medicine and comparative pathology discussions. Clinical discussions include case reports of spontaneous and induced diseases. Comparative pathology discussions cover gross and histopathology of natural occurring and experimentally induced lesions in laboratory animals and wildlife. Prerequisite: either PATH 500 or equivalent and permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 518 C MED 520 Biology of Laboratory Animals (1) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Fundamentals of morphological, functional, and applied aspects of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, biochemistry, and immunology of commonly used laboratory animal species. Discusses similarities and differences within and between species, including humans. Other topics include husbandry, genetics, behavior, and nutrition. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 520 C MED 521 Biology of Laboratory Animals (1) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Fundamentals of the morphological, functional, and applied aspects of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, biochemistry, and immunology of the commonly used laboratory animal species. Similarities and differences within, and between, species, including humans are discussed. Other topics include husbandry, genetics, behavior, and nutrition. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 521 C MED 530 Diseases of Laboratory Animals (1-) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Analysis of etiology, pathogenesis, pathology, and disease processes in rodents, lagomorphs, carnivores, and nonhuman primates. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 530 C MED 531 Diseases of Laboratory Animals (1-) T. BRABB, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Analysis of etiology, pathogenesis, pathology, and disease processes in rodents, lagomorphs, carnivores, and nonhuman primates. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 531 C MED 540 Animal Models (2) T. BRABB, C. HSU, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Naturally occurring and experimentally induced analogs of human diseases in animals with emphasis on diseases lacking animal models, and approaches to identifying new models. Discusses animal models of categorical disease (e.g., cancer, atherosclerosis, gerontology). Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 540 C MED 590 Selected Topics in Animal Medicine (1-5, max. 10) T. BRABB, L. COLBY, C. FREVERT, B. IRITANI, P. TREUTING Radiation biology, genetics, anesthesiology and experimental surgery, preventive medicine, and ethical aspects of use of animals in biomedical teaching and research. Specific topics vary from year to year, depending on expertise of the annual visiting professor. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 590 C MED 592 Comparative Pathology for the Scientist (3) C. FREVERT Introduces the interpretation of pathological changes in animals used for biomedical research, with a focus on the mouse. Covers study design and interpretation, techniques to measure pathological changes in major organ systems, plus other topical material related to preclinical drug studies and translational research. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 592 C MED 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 600 C MED 601 Internship Rotation - Laboratory Animal Medicine (*-) Prerequisite: DVM degree. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 601 C MED 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: C MED 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022