Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE ORTHOPEDICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ORTHP 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 30) Eyre Student works directly with a preceptor in selecting a suitable area for laboratory or clinical research in the area of orthopaedics, and develops a thesis for recognition. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 498 ORTHP 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 90) Eyre Investigation of pertinent musculoskeletal problems in the orthopaedic laboratories as part of the research group. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 499 ORTHP 505 P-Preceptorship in Orthopaedic Surgery (1, max. 12) Opportunity for first- and second-year medical students to gain experience with clinical faculty members in the community. Students observe general aspects of private practice from a longitudinal perspective. Prerequisite: permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 505 ORTHP 585 P-Sports Medicine (2) Lectures, patient problem presentations, and seminar discussions to explore impact of exercise and sport participation on various body systems. Includes nutritional concerns, biomechanics of certain sports injuries, and cardiovascular, pulmonary, and musculoskeletal concerns. Prerequisite: second-year medical student standing. Instructors: O' Kane Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 585 ORTHP 644 P-General Orthopaedic Clerkship - Jackson (*, max. 8) Provides a basic education in the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system. Heavy emphasis is placed on the reconstructive alternatives in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series; third- and fourth-year students. Enrollment limited to three a year. Instructors: Khoury Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 644 ORTHP 650 P-General Orthopaedic Clerkship - Billings (*, max. 8) Provides a basic education in the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system. Emphasizes reconstructive alternatives in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series; third- and fourth-year students. Enrollment limited to three a year. Instructors: Shenton Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 650 ORTHP 655 P-General Orthopaedic Clerkship - Boise (*, max. 8) Provides a basic education in the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system. Emphasizes reconstructive alternative in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series; third- and fourth-year students. Instructors: Scheffel View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 655 ORTHP 662 P-General Orthopaedic Surgery-Casper, WY (8) Provides a basic education in the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system. Heavy emphasis is placed on the reconstructive alternatives in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: Third or fourth year medical student. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 662 ORTHP 668 P-Pediatric Orthopaedics - Spokane (*, max. 8) Acquaints students with all aspects of musculoskeletal problems in childhood. Includes didactic conferences and seminars, and opportunities for active participation in both inpatient and outpatient care at Shriners Hospital for Children in Spokane. (Four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: SURG 665 or HUBIO 553. Instructors: Caskey Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 668 ORTHP 669 P-General Orthopaedic Clerkship - Spokane (*, max. 8) Provides a basic education in the fundamentals of musculoskeletal system. Heavy emphasis placed on the reconstructive alternatives in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: HUBIO series; third- and fourth-year medical students. Instructors: Scott Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 669 ORTHP 675 P-Preceptorship in Orthopaedics (*, max. 4) Student spends full time with the preceptor during all his or her working day in order to gain a better understanding of the diagnosis and the management of problems of the musculoskeletal system as seen in the private orthopaedic practice. (Two weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: SURG 665 or HUBIO 553 and permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 675 ORTHP 676 P-Pediatric Orthopaedics - Seattle Children's (*, max. 8) Acquaints students with all aspects of musculoskeletal problems in childhood. Didactic conferences and seminars, and opportunities for active participation in both inpatient and outpatient care at Seattle Children's Hospital, and correlative anatomy and pathology. (Four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: SURG 665 or HUBIO 553. Instructors: Burton, Dales, Jinguji, Krengel, Lindberg, Mosca, Schmale, Steinman, White Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 676 ORTHP 677 P-Musculoskeletal Trauma (*, max. 8) Harborview Medical Center. Emergency room, wards, operating room, and outpatient clinics. Instruction in general and special clinics, including hand, hip, foot, and fracture, with emphasis placed on physical examination of the patient. Students take correlative anatomy and pathology. (Four weeks, full-time). Prerequisite: SURG 665, HUBIO 553. Instructors: Barei, Beingessner, Bellabarba, Bransford, Dunbar, Firoozabadi, Henley, Kleweno, Nork, Taitsman Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 677 ORTHP 678 P-Musculoskeletal Oncology (8/12) In-depth experience on musculoskeletal oncology service with primary involvement in initial evaluation, staging, treatment, and postoperative follow-up of patients with various musculoskeletal malignancies. Elective involves experience in surgical, oncologic, radiologic, and pathologic principles of managing sarcomas. Prerequisite: basic orthopaedic elective or permission of instructor. Instructors: Conrad, Davidson Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 678 ORTHP 680 P-General Orthopaedic Clerkship - VAMC (*, max. 8) Veterans' Administration Hospital: structured to provide a basic education in the fundamentals of the musculoskeletal system. Heavy emphasis is placed on the reconstructive alternatives in the treatment of degenerative joint diseases. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series; third- and fourth-year students. Enrollment limited to three. Instructors: Chansky Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 680 ORTHP 681 P- Sports Medicine Orthopaedic Clerkship (8) Orthopaedic subspecialty clerkship at University of Washington Medical Center. Preceptor-based outpatient, inpatient, emergency, or operative orthopaedic care. Students work primarily in one subspecialty area and in one general orthopaedic clinic. For students who plan careers in orthopaedic surgery. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series, third- and fourth-year medical students. Instructors: Green, Larson, O' Kane, Twaddle Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 681 ORTHP 682 P-Outpatient Orthopaedics (8) Outpatient orthopaedic experience at University of Washington Medical Center. Emphasis on physical exam, diagnosis, radiographic evaluation, and non-operative treatment. Rotation through general orthopaedics as well as all subspecialty areas. For students who plan careers in primary care. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series. Instructors: Conrad, Davidson, Manner, Matsen, Wagner, Warme Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 682 ORTHP 684 P-Disorders of the Spine (8) Evaluation and assessment strategies of spinal disorders for patients of all ages and wide variety of clinical conditions including trauma, deformity, degenerative disorders, metabolic, and inflammatory diagnoses. Outpatient, surgical, and conference-based teaching sessions aimed at all experience levels and individualized for practitioners with interest in medical specialties, emergent care, radiology, physiatry, intervention pain management. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 684 ORTHP 685 P-Adult Reconstruction: Total Joint Service (8) Manner Preceptor-based outpatient, inpatient, emergency, and operative orthopaedic care. Students work with faculty in the Total Joint Service which specializes in lower extremity adult reconstructive surgery, including: complex primary hip/knee arthroplasty; less invasive approaches to hip/knee arthroplasty; revision hip/knee arthroplasty; periacetabular and proximal femoral osteotomy; osteotomy about the knee; and hip arthroscope. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 685 ORTHP 686 Orthopaedics: Lower Extremity/Foot and Ankle - Boise, ID (1-8, max. 8) Gregory A Schmale Orthopaedic clinical clerkship in Boise, ID. Preceptor-based outpatient, inpatient, emergency, or operative orthopaedic care focused on the treatment and rehabilitation of foot and ankle injuries. Students work primarily in one subspecialty area (foot and ankle) and in one general orthopaedic clinic. For students who plan careers in orthopaedic surgery. Prerequisite: completion of HUBIO series, third- and fourth-year medical students. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 686 ORTHP 687 P-Shoulder and Elbow (8) Matsen, Warme Preceptor-based outpatient, inpatient, emergency, and operative orthopaedic care. Work with the faculty in the Shoulder and Elbow Service, which provides comprehensive evaluation and management for a wide range of shoulder and elbow problems, including: arthritis, dislocation or instability, fractures, rotator cuff/tendon tears, joint stiffness, and unsuccessful previous surgery. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 687 ORTHP 688 P-Sports Medicine - Post Falls, ID (8) Orthopedic clinical clerkship in sports medicine. Students participate in care of patients with sports-related injuries. Emphasis on physical examination and determining appropriate operative interventions and rehabilitation. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 688 ORTHP 697 P-Orthopaedic External Elective (*, max. 24) Special arrangements can be made for students desiring to take orthopaedic electives at other institutions. Programs generally approved include orthopaedic clerkships at other universities or at large orthopaedic institutes. Prerequisite: HUBIO 553 and permission of department. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 697 ORTHP 699 P-WWAMI Orthopedics Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: ORTHP 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022