Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Information Technology Services About umTech Security Governance Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Security Report a Security Incident Alerts and Warnings Current AlertsPhishingPersonal Information SecurityFTC Phone Call Scams SiteFBI Internet Fraud Site Policies and Guidelines Duo Account Security Initiatives Security Awareness Training Access Termination Web Security Guidelines Best Practices Take Action Security Information Need Help with Technology? Service Catalog Contact Us Home Information Technology Services Security Information Technology Policies and Guidelines - ITS Security Information Technology Security Policies and Guidelines Official University Policies All students, faculty, and staff are expected to comply with the policies below that are designed to protect University IT resources. Policies IT6003 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources IT6005 - Data Security Policy IT6000 - Data Access IT6008 - Email Use IT6004 - Security and Protection of Electronic Information Resources IT6007 - Information Security Program Guidelines All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to review and comply with the guidelines below to prevent security incidents that could lead to a violation of University policies. Working with Restricted University Data In compliance with University policy IT6005 - Data Security Policy, restricted University data must be protected against physical theft or loss, electronic invasion, or unintentional exposure. The following guidelines outline practices for working with Restricted University data. Data Storage ITS has developed guidelines to recommend appropriate storage services and locations to be utilized for restricted and all other classifications of University data. Please refer to the Guidelines for Storage of University Electronic Data page for a listing of storage services and locations by data classification. Data Encryption ITS has developed standards for encryption to ensure restricted University data is protected from disclosure. In compliance with University policy IT6005 - Data Security Policy, employees are responsible for protecting restricted University data to which they have access. University owned laptops and portable media devices storing restricted University data must be encrypted. Local Support Providers (LSPs) in each department are responsible for assisting faculty and staff with this process. ITS has defined the following standards for encryption software: Windows 7 / 8 / 10: Microsoft Bitlocker or Veracrypt. Mac OS X: Apple File Vault Android: Android Device Encryption iOS: Enable iOS DataProtection using a passcode Data Destruction In compliance with University policy IT6005 - Data Security Policy, restricted University data must be securely erased from all equipment or portable media prior to disposal. Deleting files from your computer or laptop does not permanently remove the data. The hard drive must be overwritten (sometimes called "wiping" the drive) before disposal to ensure that deleted files cannot be recovered. Local Support Providers (LSPs) in each department are responsible for assisting faculty and staff with disposal of University equipment. Family Educational and Privacy Rights Act The University adheres to the requirements of the Family Educational and Privacy Rights Act (FERPA). Additional information regarding FERPA is located on the Registrar's FERPA Compliance page. Protecting Your Account Passwords Maintain a complex password and do not share it with others. Sharing your University passwords is a violation of University policy IT6003 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources. Additional guidelines and information can be found on the Password Security page. Duo Account Security The University Single Sign-On (SSO) system supports Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) capabilities using a product from Duo Security. Duo protects user's accounts by requiring a second means of authentication in addition to the password. Password-based authentication has become increasingly hackable and MFA greatly reduces the threat of someone else gaining access to accounts. New employees are walked through the steps of using DUO during orientation. Users can use the Duo Mobile app to enroll their smartphone or tablet to receive online push notifications, or generate a one-time passcode. Users can also enroll an SMS number (a phone number that can receive texts) to receive notifications via text, or enroll a phone number to receive a phone call, depending on their preference. Report a Security Incident or Abuse Individuals should report potential security issues which include but not limited to lost/stolen devices, potential data breaches or exposure, compromised University account credentials, and malicious network activity via the IT Security Incident Report Form. ITS will never ask individuals to send personal information such as usernames, passwords or social security numbers via email. Additionally, individuals may occasionally receive unsolicited emails (spam) or phishing emails specifically designed to trick one into clicking inappropriate links. These types of emails may be forwarded to the University of Memphis Information Security Abuse group via email at abuse@memphis.edu. Protecting Your Computer Anti-Virus Software Viruses can corrupt data and slow down entire computer networks. To protect your computer from infection, install anti-virus software, and update when prompted. University owned computers/laptops can get anti-virus software installed at no cost. Contact the umTech Service Desk at 901.678.8888 to request this service by your Local Support Provider (LSP). Anti-Malware Software Malware (malicious software) is software installed on your computer without your knowledge. It may be installed while you are downloading an application, browsing websites, reading emails, opening email attachments, or using a file sharing program online. It is recommended to use an approved Anti-Virus or Anti-Malware product as mentioned above. Software Updates New security vulnerabilities are found every day. The best way to protect a computer or device against threats is to install security updates to the operating system. Supported versions of MacOS and Microsoft updates are FREE to download. Windows: Windows Update: FAQ Mac: Apple Support Downloads Additionally, it is important to install security updates for any applications installed on a computer or device, such as third party web browsers, PDF readers, Java, Flash or other plugins. ITS reserves the right to block devices from the network running vulnerable versions of software applications or unsupported operating systems that no longer receive software updates. Other Guidelines Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Peer-to-Peer (P2P) file sharing allows individuals to share files with other users. Additional information about P2P file sharing can be found in a Wikipedia article located here. There are many potential legal issues surrounding inappropriate use of P2P applications and users of these programs are encouraged to review and abide by applicable copyright laws that can be reviewed here. Violation of copyright laws or other inappropriate use of P2P file sharing may result in a violation of policy IT6003 - Acceptable Use of Information Technology Resources. Sharing of copyrighted music, videos, movies, and documents are examples that may constitute a violation of University policy. Vulnerability Response Timeline Information Technology Services is responsible for creating a culture this is committed to information security. As an expression of this commitment, the Vulnerability Response Timeline provides guidelines for resolution and documentation of system vulnerabilities. These guidelines apply to systems and software supplied by Information Technology Services, University departments, and vendors. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/22/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.