Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager S4 Resources S4 provides consulting services for a wide range of applications of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and spatial analysis to the Brown community. S4 staff members are available to meet with faculty and students to assist with project development at any stage. S4 can help identify spatial needs, assist with research design and grant proposal writing, and consult on execution/operational concerns. S4 provides technical consulting in the following areas: Mapping, Cartography and spatial data visualization Spatial data identification, collection, wrangling & management Interactive web-based mapping & related services Basic & advanced features of the suite of Esri software (e.g., ArcGIS, ArcGIS online, ArcGIS Server ) Basic & advanced features of open-source GIS software (e.g., GeoDa, QGIS) Scripting for spatial analysis in Python & R Development of research-oriented spatial analysis tools Applied spatial statistics, geocomputation and simulation Spatial database design Remote sensing and satellite image analysis S4 consulting is at no charge and is offered on a staff-available basis. Please contact Dr. Guixing Wei (guixing_wei @brown.edu) for further information. For large or long-term projects, researchers are encouraged to discuss their needs with the S4 Director, Prof. Michael White. On the left-side panel, S4 presents some tutorials, datasets & information about GIS software that may be of use to you. The Tutorials Resources tab will take you to a series of self-paced exercises in GIS. The users will need to access the appropriate GIS software (e.g. Esri’s ArcGIS, QGIS or GeoDa) listed in the Software tab .Under the Data Resources tab, you can find several illustrative datasets from S4 research projects. Resources Data Resource Tutorial Resource Software Also in S4 Home About People Projects Training Events Resources Data Resource Tutorial Resource Software COVID-19 Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Brown University Box 1836 3rd floor of Maxcy Hall 108 George Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1064 Fax: 401-863-7497 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat