Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Venues » Nippert Stadium West Pavilion » West Pavilion Event Policies Set Navigation title in component Tangeman University Center Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights West Pavilion Event Policies Cancellation Policy Severe Weather Policy Event Policies AV Equipment Decorations Security Service Fee Late Fee Food & Beverage Cancellation Policy University Event Facility room reservations are scaled as follows: If canceled 30 business days – 15 business days from the starting date: 50% of University Room Rental Fee If canceled 14 business days– 3 business days from the starting date: 80% of University Room Rental Fee If canceled 2 business days or less from starting date: 100% of University Room Rental Fee University Co-sponsored Event Facility room reservations are scaled as follows: If canceled 30 business days – 15 business days from the starting date: 50% of University Co-Sponsored Room Rental Fee If canceled 14 business days– 3 business days from the starting date: 80% of University Co-Sponsored Room Rental Fee If canceled 2 business days or less from starting date: 100% of University Co-Sponsored Room Rental Fee Severe Weather-Related Policy If the University should close due to inclement weather, all events in Nippert West Pavilion are cancelled following University Rule 3361: 10-55-0. Room rental fees will be waived if event is cancelled due to a University closing. Event Policies Event organizers may have room access up to an hour prior to the start of the event. If additional time is needed the CES Event Coordinator must be contacted. For night events, activities must conclude by 12:30 a.m., with all guests and host organizers vacated by 1 a.m. The University of Cincinnati’s Dance Policy applies for all University and Co-sponsored events. There is no access to the bridge on level 3 during non-game day events. Any use of outside vendors must be approved by CES prior to the booking of any services. University departments’ and Student Organizations’ events, considered as University Events, are generally exempt from room rental if there are no exchanges of fees, such as admission fees, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any fee exchange. Fees apply to the following services: audiovisual equipment, event equipment (staging, dance floor, etc.), parking, catering, security and a service fee. Any University Event which charges admission, conference/class fees, exhibit fees, or any exchange of fees, is subject to room rental rates as referenced in the ‘University Rates’ category of the Facility Rental Rate Sheet.* A University Co-sponsored Event is subject to room rental rates as designated in the ‘University Cosponsored’ category as referenced in the Facility Rental Rate Sheet.* Non-University Events are subject to ‘Non-University Rates’ category as referenced in the Rental Rate Sheet.* Audiovisual (AV) Equipment A variety of AV equipment is available to rent for your event. If your AV requirements go beyond the scope of what is offered, CES can assist in securing an outside AV provider for your event. Decorations All decorations for West Pavilion must be pre-approved by Conferenced & Event Services. Tables do not come with table linens. Table linens can be requested through catering services. Balloons must have weights or be tied to centerpieces/chairs. Clients may not tape, nail, or thumb-tack any items to the floor, wall or ceiling. Please note that any types of candles, lanterns, or open flames are prohibited. The following is a list of banned decorations: Tape, nails, screws, thumb tacks, glue, adhesive putty Candles or any open flame or Incense Fog and smoke/haze machines Confetti, glitter or sand Security UC Public Safety reviews all events, and determines if security personnel is needed. The number of attendees, the type of event and/or whether alcohol is served, will help determine the need for, and the number of, officers present at the event. For events that are serving alcohol, security is primarily engaged to deny entry to uninvited guests, prevent under-age consumption, over-consumption, and alcohol from leaving the event venue. Having security is for the protection of all event attendees, and insures that the event will go on without incident and reduces the University’s liability. The UC Public Safety Officers’ hourly rate is dependent on the seniority of the officer. The specific officers assigned to a detail is dependent upon officer availability. The hourly rate only accumulates during the time the officer is on duty. For example, if an event is scheduled for 4 hours and only runs for 3 hours, the event would be charged for 3 hours; likewise, if the event would run over and go 5 hours, the charge would be for 5 hours. There is an additional public safety coordinator fee of 1/3 - 1 hour, depending on the time required to organize the event. A two-hour minimum is required. Uniform or civilian clothing is determined by Public Safety, but can be requested. Service Fee A 20% Service Fee will be applied to the Final Invoice. As a premier event space on campus, CES serves as a one-stop shop for events in the venue. As a One-Stop Shop, CES coordinates catering, parking, security, event set-up and provides facility signage for all events in West Pavilion. Departments are not charged room charge for events in West Pavilion, unless the event is charging an admission. The 20% service fee is an administrative fee helps offset the cost of services that CES provides for the events, the FFE that CES has purchased for events, and the on-site staffing during events. Late Fee Full payment is due within 45 days of the date of invoice. Failure to pay within 45 days will result in a late fee of $20. Outstanding accounts will continue to receive a late fee of $20 per 30 days past due. Food & Beverage Corry Street Catering is the exclusive caterer in West Pavilion; no outside food and beverage permitted. Important Information Clients will work directly with a CES event coordinator (513-558-1810) to arrange food, beverages and linens. All food, beverages and linens will be provided by Corry Street Catering, the exclusive caterer for Nippert Stadium West Pavilion. No outside food or beverage may be brought in for events taking place in Nippert Stadium West Pavilion event space. Client must provide final menu selection ten business days prior to event start date. Client must provide final guarantee of the food and beverage order five business days prior to event start date. Catering orders will be billed based on final guarantee or actual numbers, whichever is higher. Failure to follow the catering guidelines may result in a 10 percent default fee. Student organization catering discounts do not apply in West Pavilion. Food waiver requests are not permitted. Alcohol Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold are subject to the below guidelines, taken from the university’s alcohol policy regarding on-campus use. Alternative beverages and food are required. Events may not begin before 11 a.m., end after 12 a.m., or be longer than five hours. Events may not be sponsored by alcohol brand manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors and/or retailers. A majority of the attendees must be 21 and older. Identification must be checked at point of sale. Programs with alcoholic beverages passed, served, or sold in the indoor spaces are permitted via liquor licenses and/or permits held by Aramark’s Corry Street Catering, the exclusive caterer. Client is responsible for the conduct of all event attendees. Events with alcohol will have a Security Officer present and will be charged the Security Fee. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top