Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ Welcome to Orientation at SMU! Welcome to Orientation Student Affairs Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation at SMU Orientation at SMU is a three-step process. Through Mustang StartUp, Stampede, and First 5, our mission is to prepare students for life at SMU. Mustang StartUp Mustang StartUp is your virtual orientation experience that guides you from choosing SMU through making your way to campus for Stampede! Learn more about Mustang StartUp Stampede Stampede is everything from kick off to Convocation! This extended orientation experience is your ultimate welcome to the Hilltop. Learn more about Stampede First 5 First 5 guides you through your first five weeks at SMU and helps ensure you make a smooth transition into life as a Mustang. Learn more about First 5 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share