Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Center for Global Engagement Menu About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give Baylor>Center for Global Engagement>Global Gateway>New Students>On-Campus Study Information On-Campus Study Information What do I need to know about arriving at Baylor? Read the information on the Arrival Information page for new students. You will find information about when to arrive on campus, how you can arrange transportation, and what will happen when you arrive. Also, be sure to fill out the International Arrival form found on the Arrival Information page. Am I required to purchase health insurance? Yes, please see the Student Health Insurance Glossary. This information will help you understand your health insurance benefits while attending Baylor. How do I send my transcript to Baylor? Before you leave your high school/home country, please be sure to have your official final transcripts sent to Baylor University! Without this document, you will not be able to complete your class registration! Official final transcripts include the official graduation date (including month and year of graduation) and the schools official seal/signature of a school administrator on the document. This transcript must be sent directly from the school or submitted in an envelope sealed (remains unopened) by the school. If the envelope seal is broken or opened in any way, the document will not be accepted as an official transcript. You have 3 ways you can choose to submit your final official transcripts: Electronic submission- This is the fastest method, but please note these are only official if they are sent from a secure source (i.e. Parchment, Naviance, or Common App). We do not accept emailed or faxed transcripts. In-person - You can submit your official final transcripts in person upon arrival at Baylor’s campus. Your official transcript MUST be in the sealed (never opened) envelope with an school stamp & administrator signature across the envelope seal. Mail- Have your transcript mailed to: Baylor University Undergraduate Admissions One Bear Place #97056 Waco, TX 76798 What is the religion question on my application? There is a “census” question about your religion in the personal information section in BearWeb. Many international students leave this blank. You must answer this question. It is okay to indicate you have no religion, if that describes you. If you leave this question blank it will cause problems with your account. What is the Meningitis vaccine? You MUST get the meningitis vaccine and complete Baylor’s health forms.V VERY IMPORTANT: Both American and international students are required by Texas law to show proof of receiving the MVC Bacterial Meningitis Vaccine before entering the university. To remove this hold you need to complete the Health Form and show you have received the vaccine at least 10 days before arriving on campus. The Health Center will remove the hold once they review your documents. If you arrive without your completed vaccination, you will not be allowed to come to Baylor University until 10 days after you get the vaccine. Immediately go to your local doctor or hospital, get the vaccine injection, complete the Health Form, have the doctor sign it, and email it directly to Health_Services@baylor.edu at least ten days before you arrive. Do not wait until you come to Texas to get the vaccine. The Health Form is available here. Can you get the Meningococcal Polysaccharide immunization in place of Meningococcal Meningitis vaccine? Yes, you may get the MPSV4. In some countries (China), the MCV4 is known as either “ACYW135” or “MPSV4”. Math Placement Testing If you have not taken any of the exams above but believe you have a high math ability, you can take the Baylor math placement exam. Baylor Math Placement Exam Where: at home Fee: $25.00 Score to Place out of Precalculus: 80+ Notes: Take it as soon as possible - it may take weeks to process and Baylor needs your score before you can register for Calculus (MTH1321) You can take it more than once. It will take about 2 hours. You can only use the calculator provided in the program - no additional resources Send a screenshot of your score to Global_Gateway@baylor.edu Submit your Math Scores While with the Global Gateway Program you may have the opportunity to take a math class. If you have taken the SAT (with a math score of at least 650) or the ACT (with a math score of at least 27), you may place into a higher level math class. In order to do this you must: Submit your official scores from the ACT or Collegeboard site to Baylor SAT: Sign in to your College Board account and click on "Send Scores." Click on "Send Available Scores Now" if you want to send your scores right away, or click on "Send Scores When Available" if you’re registered for an upcoming test. Search for your colleges by state and by name, and click "Add" to make them score report recipients. (the Baylor school code is 6032) Double check your order and pay. You may check your account to see if the scores have been sent after your testing date. ACT: Log into the ACT website. Click on Your Test Dates and Scoring. Find and select the score you were looking for. Review your scores to make sure they're what you want to send. (the Baylor school code is 6032) Email Global_Gatway@baylor.edu with Subject: Your name, ACT / SAT score (Doe, John ACT Score) Provide a screenshot of the “sent” receipt attache Provide a screenshot of the “sent” receipt attached If you have taken the AP-AB Calculus exam with a score of at least a 4 or a 5 or the AP-BC exam with a score of at least a 3, 4, or 5, you may be able to get university credit for the Calculus course. In order to do this you must: Sign in to College Board. Click “Send Scores to Colleges Now” and follow the instructions. Email Global_Gatway@baylor.edu with Subject: Your name, ACT / SAT score (Doe, John ACT Score) Provide a screenshot of the “sent” receipt attached How do I transfer courses I took in China to Baylor? Please see our answer to this question under the Academics page. Can I ship things to Baylor before I arrive? Yes, a number of services help with this locally. This is a promotional message from one service (not officially endorsed by Baylor or Study Group): Campus Crates powered by The UPS Store simplifies the move-in process for students with their Ship to School service, allowing you to send your belongings and online retailer packages ahead of time. Campus Crates will give you free boxes and receive your packages for climate controlled storage and delivery. If you're living on campus, your items will be waiting for you when you arrive due to their approved vendor partnership with Baylor University. When you're leaving for the summer, Campus Crates will also help you with their summer storage program! You can register at www.mycampuscrates.com and get more information by emailing info@mycampuscrates.com or calling 254-300-8641. Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Center for Global Engagement Hankamer Academic Center, H 160.01 1428 S. 5th St. Waco, TX 76798 One Bear Place #97012 Waco, TX 76798-7012 (254) 710-1461 Global_Baylor@baylor.edu Global_Gateway@baylor.edu ISSS_Support@baylor.edu StudyAbroad@baylor.edu Global BaylorInternational Student and Scholar ServicesRegister Your TravelStudy AbroadGlobal Gateway General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About CGE Main Office Dr. Jeffrey Hamilton Lynae Jordan Robert Leis Holly Joyner Jorge Vielledent International Student and Scholar Services Office Dr. Mark Bryant Grace Semple-Paul, JD Leslie Hicks Timothy Johnson Brandon Hoye Delores Melendez Study Abroad Office Bo White, Ed.D. Kodi Henderson Katie Klingstedt Sophia Ferris Global Gateway Program Events News Study Abroad Why Study Abroad Steps to Study Abroad Choosing a Program Academics Study Abroad Advising Appointment Costs and Funding Application Timeline Parent Information Baylor Study Abroad Programs Types of Programs Programs by Location Areas of Study Explore Programs Internships and Research Abroad Health & Safety I'm Accepted..What's Next? Tips Photo Contest Social Media Takeover Study Abroad Fair Program Director Portal Program Director Development Videos Propose a New Program BearsAbroad GlobalProtect VPN International Travel with Duo Global Safety and Security FAQ International Student and Scholar Services International Students New Student Information F-1 Degree-Seeking Students J-1 Exchange Students Paying Taxes International Scholars Visiting Faculty & Researchers Health Services and Insurance - Scholars J-1 Scholar Guidelines Maintaining Status Programs & Activities Spring 2022 Trips & Special Events Global Friendship Program CGE Ambassadors International Organizations International Student & Scholar Workshops Academic and Language Resources International Student Resource Hub Community Support Page Summer Courses in China Faculty and Staff Resource Tool Kit ISSS Programming Framework Global Baylor Certificate Program Enrollment and Benefits Submission Process Global Engagement Courses Testimonials Intercultural Competence Courses Global Calendar & Events First Abroad Fellows Program Connecting to Global Initiatives Quality Enhancement Plan Global Baylor in the News International Education Week Global Gateway Our Program About Us Cornell Menking Meredith Moore Nate Hutcherson Christine Fabiszewski Matthew Piech Tanya Vernon Debra Wainscott Tracey Jones Amber McKinney Visitor Directions to the Global Gateway Program Current Students IY - Undergraduate MIY - Graduate International Student Academic Support STL 1205 - Academic Success Strategies for International Students New Students On-Campus Study Information Frequently Asked Questions GGP Arrival Information On-Campus Housing & Dining Finances Life at Baylor Academics Faculty & Staff Toolkit Toolkit Global Scholars Why Global Scholars Global Scholars Application Process Starting in Dublin Studying in Dublin, Ireland Course Work Cost Residence Hall in Dublin Global Scholars Community Global Scholars Leadership Register Travel Faculty/Staff Only Travel Faculty & Student Group Travel Student Only Travel Give