Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Academic Freedom and Free Expression "Free speech is a demanding value, not an easy one. We all have an obligation to wrestle with its meaning and understand the responsibilities that it imposes upon us." President Christopher L. Eisgruber From foreword to Princeton Pre-Read edition of Professor Keith E. Whittington’s "Speak Freely: Why Universities Must Defend Free Speech" Policies & Guidelines Statement on Freedom of Expression, from the University’s Rights, Rules, Responsibilities 1.1.3 Guidance on protests and free expression, from the Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students Addressing concerns on freedom of expression, from the Office of the Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Council of the Princeton University Community charter, Chapter 8, on freedom of inquiry, expression, publication and association Association of American Universities Statement on Academic Freedom, from AAU 2013 Statement on Academic Principles "Because the University is committed to free and open inquiry in all matters, it guarantees all members of the University community the broadest possible latitude to speak, write, listen, challenge, and learn. Except insofar as limitations on that freedom are necessary to the functioning of the University, Princeton University fully respects and supports the freedom of all members of the University community ‘to discuss any problem that presents itself.' " Statement on Freedom of Expression “…universities should foster rigorous, constructive, truth-seeking discussions about questions of consequence. In other words, in addition to permitting people to speak freely, we should study questions that matter, not just any questions; we should proceed according to standards and with methods likely to distinguish better arguments from worse ones; and we should treat one another with the kind of courtesy and respect that allow us to learn from each other, despite our differences in both viewpoint and background.” President Eisgruber From "Contested Civility: Free Speech & Inclusivity on Campus" Leadership Communications President's Letter: The State of the University, February 2021, on Free Speech and Truth Seeking Why mutual respect makes free speech better, President Eisgruber’s 2020 opinion piece for The Daily Princetonian “Contested Civility: Free Speech & Inclusivity on Campus,” President Eisgruber’s Inaugural Arlin M. Adams Lecture on Law, Religion, and the First Amendment at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, Tuesday, November 12, 2019 President Eisgruber’s Foreword to "Speak Freely: Why Universities Must Defend Free Speech,” from the 2018 Princeton Pre-Read edition of Professor Keith E. Whittington’s book President Shirley M. Tilghman . “Defending academic freedom of speech is not particularly difficult in times of peace and prosperity. It is in times of national crisis that our true commitment to freedom of speech and thought is tested.” Inaugural address, Sept. 28, 2001 President Harold T. Shapiro . “We must not fall victim to indifference or the moral corruption of enjoying academic freedom without accepting the obligation for relating our learning to society's most pressing problems.” Inaugural address, Jan. 8, 1988 President William G. Bowen . “Put simply, the University's ability to carry out its basic educational mission requires an environment conducive to the maximum possible freedom of thought and expression for each individual student and faculty member.” “Ever the Teacher,” 1988 President Robert F. Goheen . “In universities like this one, where today we enjoy so fully the freedom to search, to hear, to disagree, to test our ideas against others, we need be always aware that this freedom is ever on test.” Alumni Day speech, March 1969 "I agree strongly with Justice Brandeis — and I do regard the educational and constitutional traditions as wedded here — that the remedy for bad speech is more speech." President Eisgruber From an interview in The Atlantic, October 2021 Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice