Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Admission Visit Information for: Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Dean Stanton Wortham Mission & History About Carolyn and Peter Lynch Facts & Figures Contact Related Links Catholic Education Research Initiative Formative Education Initiative Admission Overview Why LSEHD? Tuition & Aid Deadlines & Requirements Request Info Related Links Undergraduate Admission & Aid Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Academics Overview Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Professional & Continuing Education professional-certificates-instructional-design Certificate Programs Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Certificate in Positive Youth Development Certificate in Child and Family Mental Health Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in International Higher Education Certificate in Institutional Research Certificate in Serving Exceptional Learners in Catholic Schools Certificate in Autism Spectrum Disorder Certificate in Bilingual Education Certificate in Deafblindness Certificate in Special Education Certificate in Teaching English Language Learners Online Programs Commencement Summer Session Departments CDEP Master of Arts (M.A.) in Mental Health Counseling Master of Arts (M.A.) in School Counseling Dual Master of Arts (M.A./M.A.) in Theology and Ministry and Counseling Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Applied Developmental and Educational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counseling Psychology Counseling Practicum Applied Psychology Practicum z_archive applied-developmental-and-educational-psychology-ma /counseling-psychology-phd Test Page school-counseling mental-health-counseling counseling-psychology-phd Faculty & Expertise Counseling Practicum Program Offerings Admission Mission Program Aims & Learning Outcomes Student Admissions, Outcomes, & Other Data About Our Program Counseling Psychology Accreditation Professional Associations Academics & Training ELHE Educational Leadership and Policy, M.Ed. Master of Arts (M.A.) in Higher Education Higher Education Interview Days Master of Arts (M.A.) in International Higher Education Dual Degree Program (M.A./M.B.A.) Dual Degree Program (J.D./M.Ed./M.A.) Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Educational Leadership Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Higher Education _z_archive Certificate in Social Justice Leadership About Us Higher Education Scholars @ BC Blog higher-education-ma Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) in Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Information master-of-arts-in-higher-education-master-of-business-administra law-and-education-dual-degree-programs Certificate in Social Justice Leadership Certificate in Educational Policy Development Certificate in Educational Policy Development Educational Leadership & Higher Education Blog Field Experience Program History Higher Education FAQ Higher Education Comprehensive Exams Mary Kinnane Award IDPG Master of Arts (M.A.) in Learning Engineering _z_archive MESA M.S. in Applied Statistics and Psychometrics M.A. in Research and Evaluation Methods Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment _z_archive Test New MESA Faculty Member Mission Statement Margeau Jong MESA Testimonials applied-statistics-and-psychometrics-ms Graduate Testimonials Graduate Voices MESA Students MESA Alumni & Employment Data MESA Research TCS Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Early Childhood Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Elementary Education Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Jesuit Education in a Global World Master of Education (M.Ed., C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Moderate Support Needs Master of Education in Secondary Education Master of Education (M.Ed./C.A.E.S.) in Special Education for Extensive Support Needs Global Perspectives Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Curriculum and Instruction Special Education Licensure Offerings M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Elementary Education & Moderate Support Needs M.Ed. in Moderate & Extensive Support Needs M.Ed. in Secondary Education & Moderate Support Needs Urban Catholic Teacher Corps Student Teaching _z_archive Teacher Certification Related Links Programs of Study Student Teaching Academic Calendar Study Abroad Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory & Expertise Research Opportunities AERA 2022 Presentations APA 2021 Presentations Related Links News & Videos Academic Calendar Centers & Initiatives Overview Administrators in Catholic Higher Ed Catholic Education Research Community Justice & Engaged Pedagogy Early Childhood Policy Equitable Instruction Initiative Formative Education International Higher Ed International Human Rights Center for Thriving Children Psychological Humanities & Ethics Roche Center Testing, Evaluation, & Educational Policy The Campus School The Study of Race & Culture TIMSS & PIRLS International Study Center Urban Outreach Initiatives Donovan Urban Teaching Scholars Program Work Intervention Network Community Overview Mentoring & Advising Service Learning Living in Boston Global BC Resources Related Links Diversity & Inclusion Global Faculty Directory & Expertise BC Campus Life BC Veterans News & Videos Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Lynch School Website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Admission Visit Admitted Students Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Non-Degree Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close home Academics Undergraduate Programs Lynch School Minors Undergraduate Programs Applied Psychology and Human Development Elementary Education Secondary Education Transformative Educational Studies Lynch School Minors Interdisciplinary Majors Experience, Reflection, Action (ERA) Study Abroad Internal Transfer Lynch School Minors The Lynch School of Education and Human Development offers a variety of minors open to Lynch School students, as well as some minors that are open to undergraduate students throughout the University. Please visit the Lynch School’s Office of Undergraduate Programs in Campion 104 and 106 for additional information. Print Open All Close All Applied Psychology & Human Development Available only to Boston College students in the Carroll School of Management, Connell School of Nursing, and the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences This minor consists of 18 credits in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Three courses (9 credits) are required and the remaining three courses (9 credits) must be selected from among upper level (2000+) psychology in education courses or a practicum as listed below. In some cases, a pre-requisite course must be taken in order to enroll in certain courses. Available only to Boston College students in the Carroll School of Management, Connell School of Nursing, and the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences. This minor consists of 18 credits in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development. Three courses (9 credits) are required and the remaining three courses (9 credits) must be selected from among upper level (2000+) psychology in education courses or a practicum as listed below. In some cases, a pre-requisite course must be taken in order to enroll in certain courses. Program of Study Communication Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Department of Communication is offering a Communication minor designed for Lynch School of Education and Human Development students in Teacher Education and Applied Psychology and Human Development. This new minor includes four courses plus two communications electives. Program of Study Immigration, Education & Humanitarian Studies Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Immigration Education and Humanitarian Studies minor consists of 18 credits, 12 of which may not simultaneously be counted toward the BC core or other major/minor requirements. The minor is designed to advance understanding of immigration and related educational and humanitarian topics. Program of Study Cyberstrategy and Design Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) Cyberstrategy and Design minor consists of 18 credits, 12 of which may not simultaneously be counted toward the BC core or other major/minor requirements. The minor is designed to advance understanding of the intersections of cyberstrategy and design. Students will explore introductory and mastery level coursework, select electives from different departments and engage in applied action projects and special topics research specially designated each year. Program of Study Design Thinking & Innovation Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) Interdisciplinary minor in Design-Thinking consists of 18 credits, 12 of which may not simultaneously be counted toward the BC core or other major/minor requirements. The minor is designed to advance understanding of Design-Thinking as an important tool for social impact and human centered problem solving for our world. Students will explore introductory, and mastery Design-Thinking coursework, select electives from different departments and engage in social impact action/field-based projects specially designated each year. Program of Study Educational Theatre Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Department of Theatre is offering an Educational Theatre Minor designed for Lynch School of Education and Human Development students in Teacher Education and Applied Psychology and Human Development. This new minor provides drama education and theatre training to Lynch School students who hope to include theatre as a subject they teach and practice in school settings and/or who want to use creative dramatics and applied theatre techniques as teaching tools in other institutional settings. As research consistently supports the impact of creative dramatics on students’ self-esteem, literacy achievement, overall stamina, and psychological health (Brinda, 2008; Dupont, 1998; Moran, 2006), the study and practice of theatre arts, richly enhances pedagogy for teachers and human service providers. Furthermore, Theatre techniques have also emerged as a successful intervention for students with moderate and severe special needs (Hipsky, 2007), thus complementing a special needs concentration. This minor is comprised of 6 courses and 2 labs for a total of 20 credits. Program of Study Foundations in Education Available to non-Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only All students except Lynch School students are eligible to declare this 18-credit minor. The minor consists of six courses, which are linked below. Descriptions can also be found in the Boston College Undergraduate catalog. This minor does not lead to certification. Program of Study Inclusive Education Available to non-Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Department of Teaching, Curriculum, and Society offers the Inclusive Education minor for students enrolled in MCAS and CSOM. The minor is designed to (a) introduce students to the world of disabilities and special education, with an emphasis on special education practice, and (b) enhance the ability of future professionals to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse population of students in America’s schools. The minor is compatible with efforts of MCAS and Lynch School’s joint Teachers for a New Era initiative as well as the CSOM’s special interest. The six-course minor (18 credits and a zero-credit field observation) is consistent with the number of courses/credits required for minors in MCAS and CSOM. It includes two courses that MCAS majors may take as part of BC’s social science and cultural diversity core requirements (APSY1030/1031). CSOM students should check with their advisor. Program of Study Leadership in Higher Ed. & Community Settings Available to all undergraduate students at Boston College This interdisciplinary minor, Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings, is offered by the Lynch School of Education and Human Development to students in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development, Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences, Connell School of Nursing, and in the Carroll School of Management. This minor serves students who are interested in institutions of higher education, in local and international non-government organizations (NGOs) and/or in community-based programs. The minor consists of six courses (18 credits), which are taken in the Lynch School of Education and Human Development and the Carroll School of Management. The Leadership in Higher Education and Community Settings minor includes 2 required courses (6 credits) and 4 courses (12 credits) that must be selected from the list of approved courses provided below. APHD majors must earn 18 credits and must choose different APSY courses than their focus electives. Program of Study Middle School Mathematics Teaching Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only A minor in Middle School Mathematics Teaching is available to undergraduates who are either: Elementary Education majors (with an MCAS Mathematics major OR a Mathematics/Computer Science Interdisciplinary major) OR Secondary Education majors (with an MCAS Mathematics major). Teaching mathematics in the middle school is great fun and teachers in this area are in great need. Less than 25 percent of the middle school mathematics teachers in the United States of America are currently certified to teach mathematics at the middle school level. While the minor does not lead directly to middle school mathematics certification at Boston College (we do not offer middle school certification), it does fulfill the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics requirements for middle school teachers of mathematics. With this minor, acquiring middle school mathematics certification in Massachusetts should not be difficult. Program of Study Research, Evaluation & Measurement Available to all undergraduate students at Boston College The Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) Research, Evaluation, and Measurement minor consists of 18 credits, 12 of which may not simultaneously be counted toward the BC core or other major/minor requirements. The Research, Evaluation, and Measurement minor is designed to prepare students to design high-quality research studies, conduct rigorous statistical analyses, build valid survey and test instruments, and evaluate programs and policies. In this minor, students will develop a deep understanding of research and evaluation methods and will explore topics as they relate to Education, Applied Psychology, and Human Development, select electives from different departments and engage in Senior Project or Thesis. Students will be prepared for careers such as educational researcher, data analyst, or educator. Program of Study Restorative & Transformational Justice Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD) Restorative and Transformational Justice minor consists of 18 credits, 12 of which may not simultaneously be counted toward the BC core or other major/minor requirements. The minor is designed to advance understanding of Restorative and Transformational Justice as a critical important tool. Students will explore Restorative and Transformational Justice topics as they relate to Education, Applied Psychology, and Human Development, select electives from different departments and engage in social impact action project or Senior Thesis. Program of Study Secondary Education Available to non-Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only Courses that are required for the Secondary Education Minor include the Morrissey College core and major requirements in one of the certification areas for the Secondary Education Minor. Please note: students must be officially accepted into the Secondary Education Minor program. An application form is included at the end of the Program of Study. A minimum grade point average of 3.0 and a record free of academic deficiencies is required to be considered for the Minor. Program of Study Special Education Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Special Education Concentration is available to Lynch School students majoring in Elementary Education, Secondary Education, and Applied Psychology and Human Development who have an interest in special needs education. The concentration consists of four courses that include one Teacher Education core required course (EDUC 1044); two special education courses [EDUC 2208 and either EDUC 6373 (for teacher education majors) or EDUC 6374 (for APHD majors)]; and elective options for the fourth course. Selection of the fourth course should be made in consultation with the student’s advisor, with consideration for the student’s major interests. Program of Study TELL Certificate Available to Lynch School of Education and Human Development students only The Lynch School of Education and Human Development at Boston College offers a certificate program in Teaching English Language Learners (TELL). Candidates should be working toward a licensure in an education field (early childhood, elementary, secondary, etc.). This program is designed to prepare mainstream teachers to work with emergent bilingual learners/English language learners in their mainstream classroom settings. The certificate requires two courses and completion of a field experience in a classroom that includes bilingual learners. Program of Study Quick Links Facts & Figures Faculty Why LSEHD? Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Justice Tuition & Aid Back To Top Back To Top Carolyn A. and Peter S. Lynch School of Education and Human Development Campion Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4200 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Community Apply Visit Give CONNECT WITH US Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College