Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Economics Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home Prospective Students AdmissionsGraduate AssistantshipsExpensesStructure of ProgramAccelerated BA/MA ProgramFrequently Asked Questions Current Students Curriculum Requirements Graduation Requirements Pre-Registration Form Graduate School Forms Other Student Resources Faculty Take Action Undergraduate Programs Seminars Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home ECON Master of Arts in Economics Curriculum Requirements Curriculum Requirements Course work: 33 credit hours of graduate coursework consisting of the following: Economics Core (21 credit hours) ECON 6810: Quantitative Economic Analysis ECON 6315: Applied Macroeconomics ECON 7125: Applied Statistical Methods for Business & Economics ECON 7300: Economic Theory and Decisions ECON 7310/8310: Advanced Microeconomics ECON 7320/8320: Advanced Macroeconomics ECON 7810/8810: Econometrics I Elective Courses (12 credit hours): Maximum 3 credit hours at the 6000 level, with the rest at the 7000 or 8000 level. May be offered by other related departments (such as Mathematics or Computer Science) at the graduate level, and must be approved by the M.A. program coordinator. Courses in the core MBA curriculum are not eligible. The student must fulfill one of the following requirements: Comprehensive Exam: Consists of three components: Microeconomics, Macroeconomics and Econometrics, each individually administered and graded. Passing the comprehensive exam requires passing two out of the three component exams. Students may take each component of the exam as soon as they complete the appropriate coursework: Microeconomics: ECON 7300 and 7310/8310; Macroeconomics: ECON 6315 and 7320/8320; Econometrics: ECON 7810/8810. Students are allowed one retake of each component. Students who fail the comprehensive exam may be terminated from the program. Thesis: Must register for at least 3 but no more than 6 credit hours of thesis credit. Must register for thesis credit each academic semester until the thesis is completed. Must be written under the guidance and evaluation of a committee of at least 3 faculty members and must be presented in a thesis defense. Must follow the Thesis/Dissertation Preparation Guide Must file an approved Thesis/Dissertation Proposal Form with any necessary human or animal subjects approvals before any research is undertaken. GPA requirement: Cumulative GPA of 3.0 on all graduate coursework. No more than 7 hours of "C+," "C," or "C-" will be counted towards the degree. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.