Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Academics and Schools Academics List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses The academic programs at JTS integrate rigorous scholarship with a commitment to strengthening Jewish tradition, Jewish lives, and Jewish communities. By offering a range of courses and degrees to students at all stages of their learning and careers, we can provide comprehensive, in-depth academic instruction and professional training. Thanks to the breadth and excellence of our faculty and resources, students can design highly individualized courses of study that span disciplines, programs, and schools. Schools List College List College offers unique undergraduate degree programs in partnership with Columbia University and Barnard College for a diverse, close-knit community of highly motivated students committed to Judaism and to making a difference in the world. Learn More The William Davidson School The William Davidson School’s pluralistic master’s and doctoral programs prepare educators to become leaders in the field of Jewish education. Professional development programs both on site and in the field enrich the skills and advance the careers of established educators. Learn More The Rabbinical School The Rabbinical School balances spirituality and scholarship to provide deep religious training and individualized study across disciplines, ordaining individuals who become transformative community leaders. Learn More The Gershon Kekst Graduate School The Kekst Graduate School offers the most extensive academic program in advanced Jewish Studies in North America, providing 15 areas of specialization for master’s students and four areas for doctoral students. Learn More H. L. Miller Cantorial School H. L. Miller Cantorial School provides advanced preparation in cantorial arts and in the varied uses of music to enhance worship and spirituality, complemented by a thorough Judaic education and opportunities to develop further educational, pastoral, and academic skills. Learn More Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Learn More Centers and Institutes Center for Pastoral Education The Center for Pastoral Education is one of the only seminary-based centers accredited in North America under Jewish auspices, providing in-depth training and certification to students, members of the clergy, and people of all faiths who seek intensive training in pastoral care. Learn More Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice weaves the study of Jewish ethics and training in civic engagement into the JTS curriculum, with the goal of harnessing the Jewish call for justice in pursuit of positive social change. Learn more Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue The Milstein Center brings together some of the greatest thinkers in the world to participate in conferences, panels, and conversations around the intersection of various religions and today’s most pressing issues. Learn More Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies The Louis Finkelstein Institute offers innovative programs that emphasize the continuing relevance of Judaism and other religions in addressing important matters of ethics and public policy. Learn More Research Institutes The Schocken Institute for Jewish Research—which serves as headquarters for JTS programs in Israel—and the Saul Lieberman Institute for Talmudic Research both make meaningful and substantial contributions in their respective fields. Learn More Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts trains leaders to create meaningful religious experiences, examining the potential of prayer as a practice to revitalize community and individual worship. Learn More Summer Programs Nishma This flexible summer program combines intensive beit midrash-style learning with university-level Hebrew study in order to provide participants with a firm foundation in Jewish text study. Learn More Summer Hebrew Language Courses The program is for anyone who’s interested in improving their Hebrew language skills. It is particularly useful for undergraduate and graduate students working towards fulfillment of their Hebrew requirement, as well as prospective Rabbinical School students who need to achieve the required level of proficiency for their studies. Learn More CityStage Pre-College Institute Learn More SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message