Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Legal Disclosures>Trademark/DMCA Information Baylor Trademarks Baylor University has an established independent licensing program to control the use of the name, abbreviations, symbols, emblems, logos, mascots, slogans, and other terminology associated with the University. (the "Marks") Any use of a Baylor Mark without Baylor university's express written consent is prohibited. Unauthorized use of the Marks is trademark infringement. Any productions or sale of unauthorized products or services is a violation of the federal Lanham Trademark Act of 1946, the federal Trademark Act of 1984, and state infringement and unfair competition laws, among others. Such violations subject one to liability for damages, injunctive relief, attorney's fees and other penalties, civil and criminal. Infringing merchandise is subject to seizure. For information regarding the lawful use of Baylor University's trademarks or to report unlicensed uses, call the University's Collegiate Licensing Office, (254) 710-3043, or the Office of General Counsel, (254) 710-3821. Reporting Copyright Infringements The Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"), Pub. L. 105-304 requires the designation of an agent to received claimed copyright infringement notifications. If you believe that any of your works are being infringed upon by any domain owned by Baylor University please contact: Jon Allen Assistant Vice President & Chief Information Security Officer Email: DMCA@baylor.edu Phone: (254) 710-4793 Fax: (254) 710-2716 PO Box 97268 Waco TX, 76798 In accordance with Digital Millennium Copyright Act the notification must include all of the following: A physical or electronic signature of the copyright owner or the person authorized to act on their behalf; A description of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed; Information specific enough to allow Baylor University to locate the material; Your contact information, including your address, telephone number, and email; A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. A signed (electronic or physical) statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under the penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner. Notifications that fail to contain all of the above will be slowed or not processed. For more information on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act please reference https://www.copyright.gov/legislation/dmca.pdf. Baylor Graphics For information on use of the Baylor logos, graphics or other marks, please visit our Brand Guide website: https://www.baylor.edu/brand. About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories