Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Lambuth Academy Lambuth Home Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Earn College Credit in High School Lambuth Offers Dual Enrollment Classes PreviousNext Take Action Frequently Asked Questions Apply for Dual Enrollment Contact Us Home Lambuth Academy High school students who have finished their junior year in high school have the opportunity to experience college online this summer at the University of Memphis Lambuth. The summer term is June 1-July 2. Take up to two courses online: COMM 2381 | Oral Communication ENGL 1010 | English Composition MUS 1030 | Introduction to Music Complete the Campus Based Dual Enrollment application for admission > For more information, call Enrollment Services at 731.425.1904. Lambuth Academy The University of Memphis Lambuth Campus is proud to announce the formation of the Lambuth Academy. The Lambuth Academy offers dual enrollment opportunities for area high school students and home schooled students in the afternoons and evenings. Special sections of general education courses are available at a reduced rate and students may also be eligible for the Tennessee Lottery Dual Enrollment Grant. This is an opportunity for students to obtain a real college campus experience while earning college credits that may also meet high school graduation requirements. Admission requirements for the Lambuth Academy are as follows: 19 composite score on the ACT 18 English sub-score for students taking English Composition 19 math sub-score for students taking college math 100 admissions index score: 30 times the high school GPA (based on a 4.0 scale) plus the composite ACT score. Index example: High School GPA of a 2.85 X 30 = 85.5 + 19 = 104.5 Dual Enrollment Grant Application: Students must apply online for the Dual Enrollment Grant before the stated deadline. There are no exceptions. Students must select the University of Memphis to receive their grant funds. Students must apply for the correct term and reapply each term they plan to enroll in the Dual Enrollment Program. Students who have previously used the Dual Enrollment Grant at other institutions must have an official copy of their transcript/s sent to the Office of Admissions in order to verify their continued eligibility. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/21/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.