Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Legal Affairs & General Counsel General Counsel right arrow down arrow Office of General Counsel right arrow down arrow Public Records Requests Contracting with UC Ethics Attorneys & Staff Contact Us Enterprise Risk Management right arrow down arrow Insurance & Claims right arrow down arrow Insurance Verification or Claims History right arrow down arrow Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training right arrow down arrow Drones right arrow down arrow Flight Request Form Fleet Safety right arrow down arrow Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process right arrow down arrow Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Privacy Internal Audit Home » About UC » Legal Affairs & General Counsel » Enterprise Risk Management » Loss Control & Training » Student Organizations Set Navigation title in component Insurance & Claims Insurance Verification or Claims History Claims History / Proof of Insurance Request Non-Employee Exception Sheet Medical Malpractice Cross Reference Certificate of Insurance Loss Control & Training Drones Flight Request Form Fleet Safety Driver Registration Protection of Minors Special Events Student Organizations About the Process Staff FAQ's Ask a Risk Manager Student Organizations Risk in Student Organizations All of a student group’s activities – interaction with minors, special events, student travel and transportation – have some level of risk associated with them. This could include personal injury, property damage, financial loss or lawsuits. A good risk management program aims to minimize these adverse outcomes and maximize the opportunities. For this reason, student organizations, just like any operation, must learn to: Recognize risk in your day-to-day activities. Investigate the impact to the organization. Start taking steps to manage the risk. Know who to go to for help. Enterprise Risk Management can advise on a host of issues, including the development and adoption of a risk management policy, liability waivers, insurance and other good risk management practices. Strategies to Manage Risk Training and Education right arrow down arrow Provide regular information to members about important topics and resources affecting your organization, such as drug and alcohol prevention, mental and physical health, sexual harassment and discrimination, etc. Knowledge is power! Culture right arrow down arrow Everyone is responsible for risk management. It can be helpful, however, to make a leadership position to build that culture within your organization. Contracts right arrow down arrow Limit authority within the organization to make financial commitments or authorize high-risk activity. All contracts should be reviewed by the advisor and sent through the University's contract process. Waivers right arrow down arrow Obtain waivers from each participant and review the details of the waiver in a group meeting so that each participant is aware of risks. Keep two signed copies from each participant (one with the advisor and the other with the group at all times during the activity). Sample Permission and Release Form for Student Trips, Outings, and/or Activities are available (see Student Activities and Leadership Development). Transportation right arrow down arrow When traveling on University business, the student group should rent a vehicle through the University's pre-approved rental agencies or UC fleet (charter bus, motor coach, etc) (see Transportation Services). Special Events right arrow down arrow Do not serve alcohol during events or hold an event an a licensed premises (no members of the organization should be serving alcohol). If possible, provide transportation to and from events where alcohol is served. Report special events to the proper campus resources (Special Events) Insurance Coverage right arrow down arrow As a general rule, student organizations are not covered under the University's various lines of insurance coverage. Here are a few exceptions: Car rentals obtained through Transportation Services; Student government leaders while acting in their official capacity; and Events co-sponsored by the University. Resources Insurance can be purchased through Campus Connexions, URMIA. Please contact ERM for specific questions and consultation. For additional questions, Ask a Risk Manager University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top