Skip navigation Columbia University Faculty & Staff Students Info for - Choose - Faculty & Staff Students News Events Forums Alumni Give Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Experience SIPA Dean's Messages About SIPA Why SIPA? SIPA Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Centers & Institutes Columbia & New York City Global & UN Connections Student Organizations Ideas Lab Dean's Public Policy Challenge Grant Tech & Policy @ SIPA Entrepreneurship & Policy @ SIPA Central Banking and Financial Policy @ SIPA Kent Global Leadership Program on Conflict Resolution Academics Degree Programs Concentrations & Specializations International Fellows Program Dual Degree Programs Courses Capstone Workshops Executive Education Admissions What We Look For How to Apply Financial Aid Application Status Accept Your Offer Connect with SIPA Admissions FAQs Meet a Current Student Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Research & Publications Libraries & Campus Resources Careers Career Education Career Resources Internship Program Job & Internship Postings Employment Statistics Career FAQs For Employers Search form Search You are here Home Admissions Financial Aid For over 70 years, Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs has been educating professionals who work in public, private and nonprofit organizations to make a difference in the world. The SIPA Financial Aid Office is dedicated to helping its students explore all available means to finance their education. You are here Home Admissions At SIPA, we provide access to federal, institutional, and private funding. Our financial aid staff is dedicated to working with you to assist throughout the application process and help you reach your goals. Students are encouraged to create a financing plan by the time the enrollment decision is made, and that plan should cover the duration of the academic program. Students’ plans typically include a combination of their own and/or family resources, student loans, and whatever funding they may qualify for from SIPA or external agencies. Financial aid is not available for expenses incurred during summers in which a student is not enrolled in classes. Note on office reopening: As a matter of your convenience, privacy and safety, we created online office hours, and ask students to make this the primary means of meeting with Financial Aid staff. Any student wishing to come to our office in person will be asked to make an appointment and must follow all Columbia University and/or NYC health protocols in place. SIPA & Columbia University Funding Learn about the types of financial aid in the form of scholarships, fellowships and assistantships available to SIPA students, both from SIPA directly and other funds made available University-wide. Student Loans & Federal Aid The SIPA Financial Aid Office staff understands that you are making a significant financial commitment by pursuing a graduate degree at Columbia. We want to help you make educated choices about student loans as a means of financing your studies. Please read this section carefully to understand the application procedure, calculating the amount you are eligible to apply for, as well as repayment options, rights and responsibilities. Financial Aid for International Students SIPA funding is awarded without regard to citizenship, and many international students receive fellowships, scholarships and assistantships while enrolled at SIPA. Military Benefits Veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces play an integral part in the student life, academic endeavors, and intellectual accomplishments of SIPA and Columbia University. Tuition & Fees Billing & Payments External Funding Sources Dual Degree Students Emergency Aid Contact Us Financial Aid Office Columbia University School of International and Public Affairs 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 212-854-6216 [email protected]. David Sheridan Director of Financial Aid Brandon Smith Assistant Director If you wish to schedule a Zoom call with a member of the Financial Aid team, you may do so at calendly.com/sipa_finaid/sipa. Connect with Admissions Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Share This Alumni Spotlight I applied to SIPA because it has the best program to understand urban challenges while acquiring the management skills crucial to working in this field. Maria Soledad Guilera MIA 12 Managing Director Center for Evidence Based Policy en Universidad Torcuato Di Tella Full Profile Top Connect with Us Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Twitter Instagram Twitter June 1, 2022 RT @ColumbiaUEnergy: "There are going to be tipping points with this transition and tipping points in technology, and I have no doubt th… https://t.co/Kl0BvFY4gk June 1, 2022 RT @Columbia: Explore the rich history of the LGBTQ+ movement at Columbia, the scholarship of our faculty on related issues, even… https://t.co/SQC3HllMcz COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY School of International and Public Affairs Main Address 420 West 118th Street New York, NY 10027 Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Office of Admissions and Financial Aid 514 West 113th Street New York, NY 10025 SIPA Admission Tel (212) 854-6216