Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Bioinnovation PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Bioinnovation PSM Apply Request More Info Bioinnovation PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master's in Bioinnovation Learn the business and science behind new projects in biomedicine and biotechnology with the Professional Science Master's in Bioinnovation from Temple’s College of Science and Technology and Fox School of Business and Management. Intended for recent graduates and professionals from various academic and workforce backgrounds, the program will prepare you for careers in some of today’s most promising fields, such as biotechnology, pharmaceutical sciences, public health, technology transfer and science information. Developed with input from an external advisory board of bioinnovation leaders, the program is designed for you to meet the growing demand for cross-trained employees in biology and business. For this degree, you will focus on the identification, commercialization and dissemination of novel biological concepts, models and technologies. In addition, you will gain the management skills to mitigate situations that arise from innovation, such as acquiring funding, creating startups and protecting intellectual property. A relatively small program with limited class sizes, you will receive individualized attention from faculty in both the College of Science and Technology and Fox School of Business. You will also work closely with your peers on small group exercises and projects to strengthen your communication, problem-solving and team-management abilities. Over the course of your studies, you will learn how to comfortably interact with clinicians and researchers as well as managers in finance, law, marketing and other fields. For more real-world experience, you will have the option to enter a professional internship. At the end of the program, you will submit a written project and present an oral presentation on the results. The degree may be earned over the course of two years, on a part- or full-time basis. Classes & Curriculum Some of the core courses in this 30-credit program include Biomarkers and Biotargets: Research and Commercialization; Effective Dissemination of Biodiscoveries through Traditional and New Media; Epigenetics, Genetics: Applications in Drug Design and Drug Response; and Innovative Biomodels and Concepts. Learn more about Bioinnovation PSM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Biology MS Biology PhD Biology/Neuroscience PhD Biomedical Sciences MS Biomedical Sciences PhD Biotechnology PSM Scientific Writing PSM Bioengineering MS* Bioengineering PhD * Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing *College of Engineering Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Antonio Giordano, professor in the Biotechnology Department, is the program director for the Bioinnovation PSM. Email: giordano@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-9521 or 215-204-9520 Marcella Macaluso, associate professor in the Biology Department, is the academic director for the Bioinnovation PSM. Phone: 215-204-9523 Email: macaluso@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Bioinnovation PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Seema Freer is an associate professor in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Biology degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Biology Graduate Student Society, an organization that develops professional and leadership skills in doctoral students as well as encourages them to participate in public outreach. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Temple University Forensics Association, which helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-BIOI-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Bioinnovation PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info