Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban EducationIDTLiteracy Leadership & CoachingAutism StudiesSchool Library Information SpecialistSTEM Teacher LeadershipSpecial Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs Elementary Education Elementary Education Welcome to the Elementary Education Program at the University of Memphis. We are a part of the Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Department in the College of Education. Below is current information about our programs and the degrees (licensure and graduate) we offer in Elementary Education. Vision and Mission Statement The Elementary Education Program supports the overall mission of The University of Memphis and The College of Education by supporting the College's Vision and Mission Statement. Vision Driven by a commitment to diversity, social justice and equity, the College of Education is a premier educational organization that engages in innovative and impactful research, teaching and service. Mission The College of Education builds on a foundation of success in research, teaching and service by: fostering depth and breadth of knowledge conducting relevant and innovative research developing culturally competent leaders and practitioners collaborating with and providing services to diverse local, national and international partners to address real-world problems of practice advancing an environment where diversity, social justice and equity are paramount. Undergraduate: Teaching All Learners The Teaching All Learners (TALN) major contains three parts. First, the General Education component contains introductory level courses in the liberal arts and sciences. Second, the Professional Education courses are essential for teacher all grade levels general curriculum. Third, the Special Education component contains advanced courses and experiences that lead to specialized professional knowledge unique to teaching students with disabilities. The TALN Program leads to dual licensure in Special Education Interventionist (K-8) OR Interventionist (6-12) AND an Elementary Education (K-5) classroom. Major: Teaching All Learners (TALN Program) - see catalog Concentration/Focus: Elementary Education (K-5) and Special Education Interventionist (K-8 or 6-12) Degree: BSEd License: Elementary Education (K-5) and Interventionist (K-8) OR Interventionist (6-12) Forms: Degree Sheet MAT in Elementary Education This course of study leads to initial certification in Elementary Education (K-5). The program provides students with the specific professional education knowledge and skills necessary for teachers of young children, kindergarten through grade six. The program includes coursework in child development, learning theory, social foundations of education and teaching methods. Many courses have extensive fieldwork and are frequently taught at public school sites. The degree program is designed to prepare students to meet competencies for Tennessee licensure. Upon completion of all degree requirements, including student teaching, and all testing (PRAXIS) requirements, students may apply for initial teacher licensure in Tennessee. Major: Instruction and Curriculum Leadership Concentration: Elementary Education Degree: MAT License: 499 Elementary Education K-5 Forms: Degree Sheet Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 11/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.