Skip to content Home The Harvard Chan Frontiers Give Now Online How to Make a Gift Confronting COVID-19 Support Ideas Support People Support Infrastructure Types of Gifts Planned Giving Impact Stories Philanthropic Impact Why We Give Contact Us Main Menu Supporting the Harvard Chan School Home Frontiers Make a gift Support tomorrow’s global public health leaders  Those who strive to make a difference don’t always have the opportunity to realize their potential. They may have the insight to know what’s needed and a passion for positive change but not the resources to take their ideas from data to policy, from the lab to people’s lives. That’s where you can help. Your gift can build a better future. Give today How to make a gift Our giving site is secure and easy to use. We accept MasterCard, Visa, Discover, and American Express. Your gift to the School is tax-deductible. Give now online by check by phone matching gifts via bank wire with stock donor advised funds Why We Give Scaling Up Leadership in a Time of Crisis “We’re trying to get more resources to where they can have an immediate impact in the face of this crisis." Andrew and Corey Morris-Singer are deploying resources where they can have an immediate impact in the fight against COVID-19. Read More The impact of financial aid: Transforming health through the Goldsmith Fellowship "You can't ask people to carry student debt and also go into this field, which is not handsomely paid but of tremendous public benefit." Because of the ripple effect of financial aid, fellowships benefit not only the students themselves but also the lives they will touch throughout their public health careers. Watch Video Supporting student field work: Harvey Fineberg and Mary Wilson "We support student travel fellowships because there are some kinds of learning that cannot occur in the classroom." The Albina Fund for Student Travel Fellowships provides students from the FXB Center for Health and Human Rights with hands-on learning experiences focused on international assistance and global health and development. Continue reading confronting covid-19 Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges Scientists have developed a machine learning model that can predict which SARS-CoV-2 viral variants are likely to cause surges in COVID-19 cases. ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree Jean-Jacques Muyembe, a Congolese microbiologist who leads public health emergency responses in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), including for COVID-19, is one of Harvard University’s honorary degree recipients for 2022. The latest on the coronavirus Harvard Chan School experts offer comments and context about the coronavirus in a variety of media outlets. Sikhulile Moyo named one of TIME magazine’s 100 most influential for 2022 Sikhulile Moyo, the Botswana-based researcher who helped alert the world about the existence of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the coronavirus, has been named one of TIME magazine’s 100 most influential people of 2022. Experts offer tips on taking COVID rapid tests Experts have been urging people to take advantage of rapid COVID tests and have offered advice on how to use them most effectively. More stories Thank You The generosity of our donors enables the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health to conduct research, educate public health leaders, and promote solutions to advance health and equity for everyone. Harvard Chan School Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College