Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Career Center Menu Search TTU University Career Center Employers Recruiting & Engagement Recruit Connect Get Involved Stats & Facts Exceptional talent can be found all throughout Raiderland! Find students with perspectives that will aid in your company's success. Career Fairs Our career fairs provides the opportunity for you to meet and speak with our talented students from all majors and programs. This is a chance for you to network with students, alumni, and fellow professionals all while promoting your company. Details about upcoming career fairs can be found on the Employer Event Calendar. Annual Career Fairs: All Majors Job Fair Davis CASNR Career Fair Graduate & Professional School Fair Summer Camp Job Fair Whitacre College of Engineering Job Fair Teacher Job Fair Non-Profit Job Fair Rawls College of Business Career Fair College of Media & Communications Career Fair Hire Red Raiders University Career Center's online job board provides employers the opportunity to engage with Texas Tech University students and alumni. Whether you need an employee for an internship, a part-time, or full-time position, let Hire Red Raiders do the work for you! Post job & internship listings Register for career fairs Set up an infosession Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Texas Tech University is excited to provide employers across Texas with opportunities to engage highly-motivated students on short-term, professional assignments. Not only is this a great way to complement your campus recruiting and sourcing strategies, it also allows you to demonstrate support for the students across state. What are Micro-Internships? Micro-Internships are short-term, professional assignments that are similar to those given to recent college grads or interns. Typically require 10-40 hours of work by the college student Available year-round as needed Provides a low-risk way to identify and assess potential candidates Used across industries, departments, and company sizes Need help getting started on creating your micro-internship? Use these templates provided by Parker Dewey! Seeking a larger presence on campus? Partner with us! Texas Tech University Career Alliance While the University Career Center serves all students in all majors, including graduate students and alumni, occasionally there may be specific majors that suit your needs more appropriately. Several options are listed: Rawls College Of Business Career Management Center Engineering Opportunities Center Center for Student Success, Outreach and Engagement, College of Media Communication School of Law Career Center Services Texas Tech University Alumni There are many ways to engage with our alumni community. From online job postings to dedicated events, we offer various opportunities to best serve your recruitment needs. Our highly-skilled professional career team offers various levels of support and advice, so recruiting top-class talent from Texas Tech University is seamless and purposeful. Diverse Populations The University Career Center (UCC) has developed partnerships with a broad variety of departments on campus in order to ensure the needs of all students are met. These partnerships allow the UCC to provide targeted marketing for opportunities that align with the goals and values of our students and alumni. Examples of Partnerships Include: Student Disability Services Office of LGBTQIA Education and Engagement Athletics Department Burkhart Center for Autism Education and Research International Cultural Center Military & Veterans Program Costa Rica International Campus Athletics Department Strengthen your employer branding - Engage! Webinars & Virtual Panels Recruiters can partner with the University Career Center on new and existing programming, such as webinars pertaining to certain segments of the job market. This is a great way for you to get the word out about your company, the company culture, and your hiring needs. Virtual Takeover Take advantage of this opportunity to interact virtually with our followers! Increase your engagement, impressions, and online community awareness by partnering with us. With just a few clicks, you can expand your Red Raider fan base and deliver traffic to your website. This online collaboration has proven to be one of the most creative ways to gain real-time virtual interaction with our students. Networking Events For nearly 20 years, the University Career Center has offered the Etiquette Dinner, bi-annually. Students register to attend this free event, where they are coached by an etiquette expert on the ways to approach situations that arise in a formal dining experience. It is an interactive, informative and entertaining experience that engages students in experiential learning, preparing them for the world of work. The Mocktail Party is an interactive workshop where students are taught how to network, and then provided an opportunity to apply those skills with employers. This event is held once per semester and allows employers to develop connections with students as well as give feedback to students on their networking skills. Texas Tech University by the Numbers This data is compiled annually by Institutional Research. More information can be found in the Texas Tech University Fact Book. Hispanic-Serving Institution In May of 2019, Texas Tech University achieved official designation as a Hispanic-Serving Institution (HSI) from the U.S. Department of Education. Texas Tech University reported to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board (THECB) an enrollment of undergraduate full-time equivalent (FTE) students that is 27.8% Hispanic students. Login to your Hire Red Raiders account and schedule an appointment online. If you have any questions navigating the site, please call our office at (806) 742-2210. Hours of Operation: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. View Map Meet the Staff The University Career Center encourages persons with disabilities to participate in our programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about accessibility, please call 806-742-2210 in advance of your participation or visit. Are you starting a full-time job? Have you been accepted into graduate school? Are you still deciding? The University Career Center (UCC) wants to know your post-grad plans! Report your Outcome! Ready to Recruit? Need a space to interview your Red Raider candidates? Use the Interview Room Request Form! Interested in hosting an infosession? Learn how to Host an Event in Hire Red Raiders! Want to register for a career fair or networking event? Check out the Employer Event Calendar! Interested in tabling outside the Student Union Building? Complete the Grounds Use Form and email the completed form to David Luna. Looking for more recruiting information? Read the TTU Recruiting Guidelines & Policies! Additional Resources NACE Principles for Third-Party Recruiting Recruiting International Students Internship Recruiting Toolkit Employer Services Team Carol Trigg, Associate Director Toni Krebbs, Assistant Director Taylor Johnston, Lead Counselor Dominique Massey, Lead Counselor/Marketing Coordinator David Luna, Admin Business Assistant/Recruiting Coordinator Brittainy Klemme, Program Coordinator UCC Contact Info Phone: (806) 742-2210 Email: careercenter@ttu.edu Connect with Us! @TTUCareers Texas Tech University Career Center @TTUCareers TTU Career Center Networking Group University Career Center Like University Career Center on FacebookLike University Career Center on Facebook Follow University Career Center on twitterFollow University Career Center on twitter Subscribe to University Career Center on YouTubeSubscribe to University Career Center on YouTube Follow University Career Center on InstagramFollow University Career Center on Instagram Connect with University Career Center on LinkedInConnect with University Career Center on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University Career Center, Wiggins Complex - Box 45006, Lubbock, Texas 79409 Phone 806.742.2210 Email careercenter@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 27, 2022 3:22 PM University Career Center Students & Alumni University Career Center Back What We Do What to Expect Design Your Life Develop Your Job Search Skills Search for Jobs Additional Resources University Career Center Back Techsan Connection Network COVID-19 Career Resources TTU Wellbeing | Beyond Okay Employers University Career Center Back Recruiting & Engagement Employer Event Calendar Hire Red Raiders Parker Dewey: Mirco-Internships Employer Brochure Faculty/Staff University Career Center Back Request a Presentation Career Assessments Frequently Asked Questions Families University Career Center Back Career Development Checklist Assessments for Your Student What Can I Do With This Major? Parent & Family Relations Events University Career Center Back All Events Career Fairs Career Development Events Virtual Events Webinars Employer & Graduate School Information Sessions Hire Red Raiders University Career Center Back HRR Homepage Students Employers Alumni Report Your Outcome Meet the Staff Admin Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index