Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Fellowships and Research [email protected] Fellowships and Research [email protected] Saint Andrew's Society Scholarship Deadline 11/11/2022 Eligibility Seniors Contact Linda Dunleavy Website http://www.standrewsny.org/Scholarship Description Since 1960, the Saint Andrew’s Society of the State of New York has offered three graduate scholarships annually to students of Scottish descent in order to promote cultural interchange and goodwill between Scotland and the United States. Saint Andrew’s Scholarships fund one year of study at any of the universities in Scotland. Brown is invited to nominate one candidate to the national competition. Eligibility Selection for an award is based on the applicant’s record of academic achievement, participation in extracurricular activities, leadership qualifications, financial need, employment, evidence of some Scottish descent, and personal objectives. Scholastic accomplishment is not the sole criterion for selection; all-around achievement, character, and indications of probable further development are also important factors. The Society expects applicants to be fine representatives of the U.S. Applicants should have a clear idea of a project which can be completed in one academic year. Benefits A Saint Andrew’s Scholarship provides funds to a total of $35,000 to cover tuition, then board, transportation and other expenses. Applying Brown is invited to nominate one candidate to the national competition. Candidates seeking Brown’s nomination must submit the following through UFunds, Brown's online application system. We require one copy of the following by the November 11, 2022 campus deadline. The St. Andrew's application form An unofficial Brown University transcript. Current CV Essay responses Proof of financial need Two letters of recommendation addressed to Linda Dunleavy, Associate Dean of the College for Fellowships. For questions regarding the St. Andrew's Scholarship contact: [email protected] Recipients 2021-2022 Fiona Campbell, '22 Home People Exploring Fellowships Find a Fellowship Prepare Your Application For Faculty and Advisers: Writing Letters of Recommendation Fellowship FAQ News Resources Print this Page Share this Page Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-863-1000 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Dean of the College Swearer Center CareerLAB International Programs The Watson Institute