Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Student Spotlight » Profiles » Thomas Croke Set Navigation title in component 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners Thomas Croke Thomas M. Croke V is a Ph.D. candidate in Musicology at the College-Conservatory of Music. His research focuses on the legacy of the illness and death of Polish composer Fryderyk Chopin and how this legacy has been reflected in European and American music, art, and literature since the Nineteenth Century. He received his M.F.A. from Brandeis University, where he completed a research project reconciling the biographical inconsistencies of Hungarian pianist-composer Franz Liszt. He has presented at the Biennial North American Conference on Nineteenth-Century Music, speaking about Chopin’s Études and the historical context that led to their creation. He also presented at the 4th International Chopinological Congress at the Chopin Institute in Warsaw about Chopin’s only existing photograph and its connections to post-mortem photography. Tom was the President of the Music Theory and Musicology Society at CCM, where he presided over their 2018 biannual conference. He is also a professional pianist with over 15 years of experience. Tom grew up in a home with two family members with Down Syndrome and this informs his compassionate analysis of ill and disabled figures in history. Upon graduation, Tom plans to take the ideas about illness and art from his dissertation and write a book that accessibly addresses these issues with other historical figures that were important but marginalized. Awards 2021–22- Semi-finalist, Fulbright U.S. Student Program - Poland Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top