Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home Academics Academics Departments Undergraduate Majors Undergraduate Minors and Programs Graduate Studies Why Study Here? Why Study Here? The Dedman Edge Heard on The Hilltop Research and Fellowships Research and Fellowships Undergraduate Students Graduate Students National Student Fellowships Institutes and Centers Faculty Dean's Research Council Resources Resources Current Students Faculty and Staff Prospective Students Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate About About Dean's Welcome Administrative Directory Executive Board Department Chairs Department Faculty Directory Dedman Diversity Publications Facilities Connect Connect Make a Gift Contact Us Prospective Student Visit Alumni Connection and Events ☰ Why Study Here? Home Why Study Here? Heard on The Hilltop Heard on The Hilltop Strong Community “My advice for any high school students considering SMU is to not count yourself out before you even apply. There is a strong community here waiting to shower you with support, care and love. And once you’re at SMU, you’ll be encouraged to dip your toe into anything that you find yourself drawn to; hence why I am leaving this institution with three different degrees.” Abena Marfo ’22 Triple major in sociology, health and society and human rights Have It All “My experiences at SMU have been broad and all-encompassing. I found opportunities to conduct and present my own research, have a work-study job, fully fund my study-abroad experience and volunteer with the local community. Coming into college, I didn't think I would have the time to delve so deeply into all my interests. However, SMU has just so much to offer, and encourages students to balance their academics with other pursuits.” Siddhakshi Solanki ’20 Pre-med double major in biology and French Faculty Support “The support of professors has had a profound impact on me. Rita Economos in the Earth Sciences Department guided me through a senior thesis project that set me up to go to graduate school, if I choose to.” Evan Snyder ’19 Double major in geology and human rights. As a first-year student, he joined the SMU-led research that’s now a major Smithsonian exhibition, Sea Monsters Unearthed. Opportunity in a Thriving Metroplex “SMU’s central location in the great city of Dallas makes it possible for students to engage within this remarkable community. This engagement can take place in the form of volunteer work, internships or work experience. The possibilities are endless." Sanaa Ghanim ’20 Double major in human rights and English Blending Business and Science for a Future in Medicine “SMU’s approach to interdisciplinary study has shaped me into a more critical thinker who can approach a problem from both business and scientific perspectives. As I prepare for medical school, my dual degree plan gives me a competitive edge. I am able to pursue diverse internship opportunities, including those that focus on the business and clinical aspects of health care.” W. Holt Garner ’19 Double major in accounting and biology and chemistry minor The Right Academic Combinations “People sometimes question my combination of majors. When they do, I point out that so much of my campus involvement—everything from planning and organizing cultural awareness events to serving as the social media and marketing coordinator for the Embrey Human Rights Program—demonstrates how beautifully they mesh together.” Neha Husein ’19 Double major in marketing and human rights. Founder of the Just Drive app. Preparing for a Career and Life Beyond SMU “SMU provided me access to professors who pushed me to think, to alumni and a business community eager to see me and others succeed, and to life-long friends, with many of whom I also do business.” Jonathan R. Childers ’02 and ’05, Attorney Childers graduated in 2002 with a double major in English and History. He graduated from SMU Law in 2005. Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube