Skip to main content menu Search secondary-header-main-menu About Careers Diversity Subscribe Contact Georgia Tech Search Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News EW Sustainment Lifecycle Support ELSYS supports the DoD enterprise across a wide range of EW technologies and throughout the entire program lifecycle. Working directly with its government partner, ELSYS provides engineering support from the initial stages of conception and requirements analysis, through design and development, to operational test, fielding, and sustainment. ELSYS excels at developing hardware and software solutions to improve mission capability with a focus on bringing technological advancements to the warfighter. Given its long history of partnering with the DoD and providing EW solutions, ELSYS has built a deep understanding of the threat, the mission, and the acquisition process. ELSYS understands that modern, effective EW cannot be provided by a set of federated systems, but rather as a System of Systems. Avionics and Mission Systems ELSYS has a long history of supporting the government in organic sustainment and technology insertion targeted at keeping legacy military platforms operationally relevant in an ever-changing operational environment. The laboratory develops and supports fielding of operational flight programs (OFPs) delivering innovative nonproprietary products leveraging GTRI’s broad subject matter expertise across the full spectrum of military systems. ELSYS provides full life- cycle engineering sustainment including development of system specifications, requirements, design, and development, and qualification, and flight test support. Focus areas for airborne systems include data fusion of multi-sensor EW and avionics systems, tactical data link integration, standards development, and embedded training solutions. Foreign Military Sales In addition to directly supporting DoD services, ELSYS conducts EW research for a variety of allied and partner nations via Foreign Military Sales (FMS) through appropriate DoD agencies. FMS EW activities include: Development and test of Integrated EW (IEW) suite SW and testing Support for FMS In-country Reprogramming (ICR) through delivery of test tools, including Integrated Support Station (ISS) test sets for Mission Data File (MDF) test Hardware and Software sustainment for FMS EW systems Platform and EW domain-specific analysis activities Subject Matter Expert support for DoD agencies engaged in EW export activities Tailored courses for FMS countries in support of ICR and EW support activities ELSYS also co-sponsors and conducts a bi-annual International and FMS Symposium to foster communication and coordination in the International EW stakeholder community. The FMS Symposium draws attendees from the international community, DoD, State Department and industry. Have a question? Laboratory Director, ELSYS Tommer Ender Laboratory working on this Focus Area: ELSYS Electronic Systems Laboratory Related Core Competencies Sensors, Weapons, Electronic Warfare and Autonomous Systems Sensors, Weapons, Electronic Warfare and Autonomous Systems Main navigation Core Competencies Laboratories Locations News secondary-footer-main-menu Directory About Careers Diversity Contact Facebook Twitter Linkedin Youtube third-menu-footer GTRI WebWISE Legal & Privacy Information EU GDPR Privacy Notice Terms of Use Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Clery Act © Copyright Georgia Institute of Technology