Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Invisible and On Stage Podcast Invisible and On Stage Podcast Listen to the podcast A podcast dedicated to Black students and racism in academia Every day, both inside the classroom and out, many Black students struggle against stereotype threat, alienation, and impostor syndrome. How do these microaggressions, as well as more overt forms of systemic racism, erode an individual’s emotional well-being? How do daily experiences with racism deteriorate one's identity and sense of community? Host Dr. Keoshia Worthy, licensed psychologist at Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) explores these questions with guests who share their personal experiences both as Black professionals and students, as she reflects on her own journey as a Black woman in academia. Provoking open and informed conversations around racism-related stress, identity, and community, Invisible and On Stage applies a psychosocial lens to the Black student experience – and investigates the insidious ways that racism harms mental health. Listen and subscribe Although the podcast is intended to provide support, it is not a replacement for psychotherapy. If you are interested in counseling services and are a Columbia University student on Morningside campus, please call 212-854-2878. GET SUPPORT Make an Appointment Call 212-854-2878. If you are experiencing an urgent mental health concern, please call 212-854-2878, available 24/7. Coping Tools Digital services, mobile apps, and online resources you can use to manage distress outside our regular hours of operation. Virtual Support Spaces Connect with providers and peers on a variety of concerns. We'd love to know what you think of this podcast! comments icon Share your feedback Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close