Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECE Welcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board Academics Courses and Majors Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Outreach Why Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources Research Technical Interest Groups Bioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & Calendar News and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT Home Home Research Technical Interest Groups Bioengineering Bioengineering applies engineering principles to study, manipulate, and control biological processes. In this area, mathematical, physical, and engineering concepts are developed and applied to solve problems in medicine and biology through hardware and software including electronics, sensors, engineering systems, data processing, computational imaging, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. ECE's bioengineering group is on the leading edge of developing physical and mathematical concepts and techniques that are applied to medicine and biology. Specific applications include feature extraction in cardiac imagery, MEMS devices for direct interfacing with biological systems, modeling of biological sensory and motor systems, and the development of sensors for the detection of cancer cells. Because of the continued advancement of medical technology and the many unsolved problems in the understanding and treatment of disease, bioengineers play an essential role in the improvement of the understanding of biological systems, and in the development and evaluation of healthcare technologies. Georgia Tech bioengineering students have multiple options for pursuing graduate degrees. Numerous ECE faculty are members of the interdepartmental Bioengineering Graduate Program. Thus, students entering ECE who want to pursue an M.S. or Ph.D. in Bioengineering can matriculate either as traditional ECE students with a focus in Bioengineering or into this interdepartmental Bioengineering program with their home School designated as ECE. Virtually all Ph.D. students receive funding support either through teaching or research assistantships. View Faculty members for Bioengineering Research The Bioengineering faculty and students are engaged in a range of basic and applied research programs, which are supported by government agencies, private foundations, and industry sponsors. Major sponsors include the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Department of Defense, and the Whitaker Foundation. The group's research is augmented by the Neurolab (Laboratory for Neuroengineering). Numerous research collaborations exist with other Schools within the Georgia Tech Colleges of Engineering and Science and with the Emory University School of Medicine. Bioengineering research falls within the following major areas: Bioelectronics, Biosensors, and BioMEMS Neuroengineering, Neuromodulation, and Neural Control Medical Imaging and Sensing, Devices, and Instrumentation Diagnostic and Therapeutic Ultrasound Optical Imaging and Microscopy, Biophotonics Computational Imaging and Signal/Image Processing Bio- and Neuro-inspired Signal Processing Biological and Computational Vision, Machine Learning Academics The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in all areas of bioengineering is reflected in the curriculum, which provides students with a solid foundation in such areas as bioinstrumentation, medical imaging, biosystems analysis, biological signal processing, and neuromorphic engineering. Last revised October 4, 2021 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology