We use cookies to enhance the user experience on our website and deliver our services. We also use cookies to show you relevant advertising. Read the UW Privacy Policy and more about our use of cookies. Accept Search Programs & Courses Entire Site Logo Contact Us Search Contact Us Toggle navigation UW PCE All Programs & Courses Areas of Study Biotech, Health Care & Social Work Business & Leadership Data & Applied Math Education, Nonprofit & Society Engineering, Construction & Sustainability Marketing, Communication & Design Programming & Tech Program Types Certificate Programs Courses Degree Programs Online Programs Online Degrees Online Certificate Programs Online Courses Self-Paced Certificate Programs Free & Low-Cost Programs Help Center Selecting a Program Applying to a Program Registration & Costs Completing Your Program Resources & Policies Scholarships COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement News & Features Announcements Career Change & Advancement Employer Insights Going Back to School Hot Jobs & Career Trends Success Stories Tips for Getting Hired Events About Us Why Choose Us Locations Enrollment Coaching Contact Us × COVID-19 Vaccine Requirement All UW Professional & Continuing Education students, including fully online students, must provide proof of vaccination against COVID-19 or submit a request for medical or religious exemption. Learn more >> Contact Us About Us Home About Us UW Professional & Continuing Education As part of UW Continuum College, UW Professional & Continuing Education expands the educational impact of the University of Washington, breaking down barriers so learners of all types can access quality opportunities that fit their lives. We know how important continuing your education is in addressing the evolving needs of the workplace. We also believe education makes life more meaningful. That's why we're in a constant phase of research and development, experimenting with new topics and new approaches that keep the new traditional, nontraditional learner top of mind. Whether you're pursuing a higher level of education or simply forever curious, you'll discover innovative and relevant programs that fit your schedule and your budget – so you can keep learning at the University of Washington. Choose from nearly 100 certificate programs, more than 80 degrees and hundreds of courses designed for you, with flexible options in the evening, on weekends and online. MAIN ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES UW Tower 4333 Brooklyn Ave NE Box 359492 Seattle, WA 98195-9492 Connect with us: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Subscribe to our email list Be among the first to receive timely program and event info, career tips, industry trends and more. Sign Up By submitting my information, I consent to be contacted and agree to the terms and conditions outlined in the privacy policy. Professional & Continuing Education | University of Washington Partnering With Us Becoming an Instructor Contact Us Brought to you by UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA | Title IX | Privacy | Terms × Talk to an Enrollment Coach Our coaches are here to help you every step of the way — from finding a program to applying and enrolling. Start the conversation! First Name Last Name Email Phone I also want to receive the monthly UWPCE newsletter with career tips, industry trends, timely event info and more. Send By submitting my information, I consent to be contacted and agree to the terms and conditions outlined in the privacy policy. × Subscribe to Keep Learning! Be among the first to receive timely program info, career tips, industry trends and more. First Name First name is required Last Name Last Name is required Email Email format is invalid Email is required Interests Biotech, Health Care & Social Work Business & Leadership Data & Applied Math Education, Nonprofit & Society Engineering, Construction & Sustainability Marketing, Communication & Design Programming & Tech Sign Up Now By submitting my information, I consent to be contacted and agree to the terms and conditions outlined in the privacy policy. × Stay up to date with emails featuring career tips, event invitations and program updates. Sign Up Now