Skip to main content Oregon State University Front Page - Main navigation About Academics Research Extension & Engagement Athletics Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Open Menu Open Search search for people and pages Search OSU Looking for a person? Try the campus directory. Exit Search Tools and Services MyOregonState Canvas G Suite Academic Calendar Catalog Campus Map OSU Libraries Exchange Online Gmail Box Zoom × Show image caption On Oregon State’s 520-acre campus in Corvallis, students can choose their favorite place to study, indoors or out. Apply Request Info Visit Give Our Stories Video file Outstanding in their fields. Distinguished at Oregon State. Video file To Ukraine — driven by love and determination. Video file No yard? No problem. Grow a thriving container garden. Read More Stories Your Path Starts Here Oregon State was founded more than 150 years ago as a land grant institution, building on the idea that everybody deserves access to an education that transforms their lives. Yours could be next. Adapting to today’s challenges, we continue to deliver innovative, high-quality courses and programs. We put the safety and success of our community as our top priority. As Oregon’s largest university, we draw people from all 50 states and more than 100 countries. Our mission is constantly evolving to serve all learners. Oregon's Best Research University With over 200+ academic degree programs Oregon State has a path to the career you always wanted. Find your major. #2 Forestry in the World #3 Oceanography in the World #5 Best Online Bachelor’s Degrees in the U.S. #3 Human Development and Family Studies in the U.S. Gold Rating for Bike Friendliness #2 Friendliest College Town in America Tools and Services Front Page - Audience Menu Future Students Current Students Online Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors COVID-19 Safety and Success Plan and Resources Our Locations Corvallis OSU-Cascades Online Extension Service Hatfield Marine Science Center OSU Portland Center Sexual Misconduct, Hotline and Other Reporting and Services Reset Count OSU's Instagram OSU's TikTok OSU's Twitter OSU's Facebook OSU's Youtube Spotify Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Campus Map Accessibility Information Campus Safety OSU Beaver Store Contact OSU Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Privacy Information and Disclaimer What kind of beaver are you?