Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs Hazlewood Overview of TTU Hazlewood Exemption Application Procedure <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> Welcome to MVP forms! Military & Veterans Programs has transitioned to a paperless office environment. All required documents for certification must be submitted to MVP as an attachment to your online electronic form. MVP Forms How to Start: Complete registration with no expected changes prior to submitting an MVP Form for certification. The Hazlewood initial application or continuing application is due immediately following registration. Applications will not be accepted after the last day of class for the semester for which you are applying. Note: Last class day (NOT the last day of finals). Sign onto MVP Forms with your ERaider ID and Password. Click one form per term for completion. Only the terms listed in each drop down are available for certification. Specific Instructions are available within each form. Click on links within each form for Federal Checklists and under PDF Forms & Checklists below, see the Overview of TTU Hazlewood Exemption Application Procedures for Hazlewood Checklists. Remember to upload requested supporting documents prior to form submission. Note: In MVP Forms, push SAVE before SUBMIT to view uploaded documents Click on PDF Forms & Checklists below to access forms not yet available on MVP Forms. MVP Students may fill out a Military Payment Plan Enrollment Request form and submit it to sbs@ttu.edu or submit it directly to SBS in 301 West Hall. This form will delay payment for tuition and fees only until the first payment plan deadline. Note: if you have Housing, meal plan or other charges, this form doesn't cover those so you must go ahead and make payment arrangements with SBS for those items immediately. Assistance: For assistance with the MVP Forms Program, email mvp@ttu.edu. Include your R#, browser type and brief description of any errors you are receiving. Chrome or Firefox is the recommended browser. Note: Due to the volume of applications, please allow 30 business days processing time. PDF Forms & Checklists: Checklists Military Payment Plan Enrollment Request Overview of TTU Hazlewood Exemption Application Procedure TTU MVP Policy Regarding Legacy Students starting Fall 2014 Clarified Hazlewood Application Deadline Phone List Hazlewood Program Purpose The purpose of the Hazlewood Exemption (Hazlewood Act) is to provide an education benefit to honorably discharged or separated Texas veterans and to eligible dependent children and spouses of Texas veterans. Hazlewood Administrative Code Three ways to use the Hazlewood Exemption Veteran A person who at the time of entry into the U.S. Armed Forces was a Texas resident, OR designated Texas as Home of Record, OR place of entry shows Texas and served at least 181 days of active military duty (excluding all training) with honorable or under honorable conditions discharge, AND the person must not have federal veterans education benefits dedicated to the payment of tuition and fees only (such as Chapter 33 or 31); for term or semester enrolled that do not exceed the value of Hazlewood benefits.Learn More>> Legacy Veteran who meet the Hazlewood requirements and currently physically resides in Texas may transfer unused hours to a dependent child who meets requirements.Learn More>> Children/Spouses - Veteran Spouses and dependent children of eligible Active Duty, Reserve, and Texas National Guard who died in the line of duty or as a result of injury or illness directly related to military service, are missing in action, or who became totally disabled for purposes of employability as a result of a service-related injury or illness are entitled to each receive a 150 credit hour exemption. The DD214 shows place of entry is Texas or Home of Record is Texas or proof veteran was a Texas resident at the time of entry or DD1300 with all required information.Learn More>> Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:13 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index