Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News Home Campus & Community : Life in Austin Life in Austin Austin-Area Resources City of Austin Austin Chamber Austin Convention & Visitors Bureau Austin Visitor's Guide from The Austin Chronicle Austin 360 Off-Campus Living Imagine a city bursting with an entrepreneurial spirit, a commitment to personal freedom and a passion for unearthing new discoveries. Add a vibrant, internationally renowned music, film and art scene, along with a thriving economy that leads the way in the technology, engineering and health care industries. Throw in a glittering lake running through the center of the city, big blue skies, gleaming Texas sunshine and the natural beauty of the surrounding Hill Country. Underline all of that with an open-minded sense of community, a serious commitment to breakfast tacos and a deep appreciation for all kinds of people and all kinds of dreams, and you've got Austin, Texas — one of the most amazing places in the world, and the city we're proud to call home. Music, Film and Art With more than 200 venues and dozens of shows every day and night, Austin lives up to its reputation as the Live Music Capital of the World. And that's not to mention Austin's many museums, galleries and theaters sprinkled all across the city. From historic country dance halls to state-of-the-art amphitheaters to cozy, independent movie theaters, creative opportunities abound. Outdoor Recreation From the cool, clear, spring-fed waters of Barton Springs Pool to lush, shady Greenbelt trails, Austin is the perfect city for the active lifestyle — with tons of opportunities for swimming, rock climbing, hiking, mountain biking, kayaking, fishing and more. Go for a jog on the Hike and Bike trail, climb up Mount Bonnell at sunset or find some other way to explore the beauty of the Texas Hill Country. Technology and Innovation Given the immense talent pool UT Austin produces, it's no surprise that technology companies such as Dell, IBM, Intel, Apple, Samsung and National Instruments have established major operations here in Austin. The city is also becoming a top destination for entrepreneurs and was recently named one of the best startup cities in the country. Quality of Life With our year-round sunshine, beautiful Hill Country setting, world-famous live music scene, robust economy, booming job market and strong sense of community, Austin offers a wonderful quality of life, making it an excellent place to live, work and play. Festivals and Events All year long, Austin plays host to some of the biggest and best festivals in the world. Austin City Limits Music Festival Austin Film Festival Austin Food & Wine Festival South by Southwest Texas Book Festival Outdoor Attractions Get outside! With numerous parks and year-round sunshine, you've got plenty of options. Barton Springs Pool Barton Creek Greenbelt The Butler Trail Lady Bird Lake Zilker Metropolitan Park Venues and Theaters Any night of the week, there are dozens of places where you can catch a show, a movie or a play. ACL Live at The Moody Theater Alamo Drafthouse Broken Spoke The Continental Club Paramount Theatre Iconic Austin Locations Austin has other treasures in store, too — a rich civic life, tons of vibrant, historic neighborhoods, terrific shopping, and, of course, the Congress Avenue Bridge bats. Austin City Hall Congress Avenue Bridge Bats Sixth Street Texas Capitol Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022