Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs Brown/Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) Program in Japan Japanese architecture At a Glance City: Kyoto Affiliation: Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies Housing: Homestay or apartments Language requirement: Lower Level: For fall semester: one year of college-level Basic Japanese (JAPN 0200); for spring semester: three semesters of college-level Intermediate Japanese (JAPN 0300). Upper Level: For the fall semester or full-year program: Intermediate Japanese (JAPN 0400), or Advanced Japanese (JAPN 0500) or the equivalent for the spring semester. Calendar: Semester or Year Accepts Non-Brown Students: Students apply through Columbia University, space-available basis Overview The Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) provides a program for students interested in Japanese culture, history, language, literature, and social organization in Kyoto, the ancient cultural center of Japan and a city of natural beauty with a fascinating history. Located in the picturesque valley of the Kamo River on Honshu Island, Kyoto is one of the world’s most attractive cities. As the nation’s center of traditional Japanese culture and of Buddhism, Kyoto is a richly historical site. Once the capital city of Japan (from 794 to 1868), Kyoto contains many cultural treasures, including the Imperial Palace, Buddhist temples, Shinto shrines, No and Kabuki theatres, scenic parks and gardens, and numerous museums housing rare Japanese art. Over 30 colleges and universities are located in the area. The Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) Columbia University administers the program for a consortium of 13 American universities. The Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies is located near the Doshisha University campus, in the cultural heart of Kyoto. Academics Courses cover relatively advanced topics in the humanities and social sciences, with offerings on both modern and pre-modern Japan. All students take a double-credit course in Japanese language in small groups of about eight students. Students take two other courses, offered in English by US, international, or Japanese professors, the KCJS Director, and by a professor from a KCJS consortium university. Program Calendar Approximate dates are provided based on past programs; students should expect them to vary by year. Fall Semester: early September - mid-December Spring Semester: early January - late April Academic Year: early September - late April Refer to the Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies website for specific program dates and academic calendars. Eligibility and Requirements The Brown/KCJS Kyoto program is open to undergraduate students from Brown. Applications are encouraged and open to visiting students outside the KCJS consortium; visiting students should apply through Columbia University. Students must be in good academic standing with the following language capabilities: Lower Level: For fall semester: one year of college-level Basic Japanese (JAPN 0200); for spring semester: three semesters of college-level Intermediate Japanese (JAPN 0300). Upper Level: For the fall semester or full-year program: Intermediate Japanese (JAPN 0400), or Advanced Japanese (JAPN 0500) or the equivalent for the spring semester. Application Instructions Apply by the deadline using Brown's online application system via the "apply now" and "return to application" buttons on the right side of this page. Applications typically require faculty recommendations so it is important to begin the process early. Additional Information For more detailed information about the Brown/KCJS program in Japan, please visit the KCJS website. Related Links 2021/22 Estimated Program Costs 2019/20 Program Calendar East Asian Studies at Brown Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Distinctively Brown/Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Argentina Brazil Chile Cuba France Germany Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan Spain Approved Programs Petition Process Summer Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown