Sign In Search Cart Search for: 0 Items for $0.00 Explore Subjects Books Browse By Subject By Title By Series Award Winning Titles Authors and Editors Current Authors Prospective Authors Journals Browse By Title By Subject Mathematics at DUP Journals fulfilled by DUP Journal Services Authors and Editors Submission Guidelines Ethics Statement for Journals Rights and Permissions Share Your Article Support for Journal Editors Author Resources from University Presses Journal Community Websites FAQ Conferences Prospective Journals DUP as a Publishing Partner Testimonials Start the Conversation Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Browse American Dialect Society American Society for Ethnohistory Association for Middle East Women's Studies GL/Q Caucus for the Modern Languages Labor and Working-Class History Association Population Association of America Society for French Historical Studies Society for Novel Studies Society Members and Officers How to Join a DUP-Affiliated Society About Your Account Support for Society Officers Conferences Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are Leadership Staff What We Do Blog News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Working at DUP Conferences Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Explore Subjects Books Browse Authors and Editors Journals Browse Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Societies Browse Society Members and Officers Prospective Societies Open Access About Who We Are What We Do News Awards Contact Us Give Job Opportunities Conferences Home / The Lettered Barriada The Lettered Barriada Workers, Archival Power, and the Politics of Knowledge in Puerto Rico Share Read the Introduction Book Pages: 280 Illustrations: 16 illustrations Published: November 2021 Author: Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo Subjects History > Latin American History, Caribbean Studies, Chicanx and Latinx Studies In The Lettered Barriada, Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo tells the story of how a cluster of self-educated workers burst into Puerto Rico's world of letters and navigated the colonial polity that emerged out of the 1898 US occupation. They did so by asserting themselves as citizens, producers of their own historical narratives, and learned minds. Disregarded by most of Puerto Rico's intellectual elite, these workers engaged in dialogue with international peers and imagined themselves as part of a global community. They also entered the world of politics through the creation of the Socialist Party, which became an electoral force in the first half of the twentieth century. Meléndez-Badillo shows how these workers produced, negotiated, and deployed powerful discourses that eventually shaped Puerto Rico's national mythology. By following these ragtag intellectuals as they became politicians and statesmen, Meléndez-Badillo also demonstrates how they engaged in racial and gender silencing, epistemic violence, and historical erasures in the fringes of society. Ultimately, The Lettered Barriada is about the politics of knowledge production and the tensions between working-class intellectuals and the state. Duke University Press Scholars of Color First Book Award recipient Praise “No one has treated the foundational texts of the Puerto Rican labor movement as comprehensively and organically as Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo. Uniquely compelling, The Lettered Barriada makes a significant addition to labor studies, Latin American history, and Puerto Rican and Caribbean studies.” — Francisco A. Scarano, author of Puerto Rico: Cinco Siglos De Historia “Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo's focus on the ‘politics of knowledge production’ explodes our understanding of the internecine struggles within the early Puerto Rican Left and the politics of race and gender in the construction of radical social movements in Puerto Rico. Meléndez-Badillo exposes to historians of Puerto Rico how the historical narratives to which we all have contributed have been shaped irrevocably by the aspirations and interests of the flawed male radical visionaries of the turn of the century. His book is simultaneously empirically fresh, epistemologically challenging, and inspirational in its revisiting of Puerto Rican history and those who made it.” — Eileen J. Findlay, author of We Are Left without a Father Here: Masculinity, Domesticity, and Migration in Postwar Puerto Rico Buy Paperback Cloth Availability: In stock Please read our FAQ's to learn more about Pre-Orders Price: $26.95 Add to cart Buy the e-book: Amazon Kindle Apple iBooks Barnes & Noble nook Google Play Kobo Open Access Request a desk or exam copy Information Author/Editor Bios Table of Contents Rights Awards Additional Information Author/Editor Bios Back to Top Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo is Assistant Professor of History at Dartmouth College, author of Voces libertarias: Los orígenes del anarquismo en Puerto Rico, and coeditor of Without Borders or Limits: An Interdisciplinary Approach to Anarchist Studies. Table of Contents Back to Top Acknowledgments ix Introduction 1 1. Words as Bricks and Pages as Mortar: Building the Lettered Barriada 25 2. The Workshop Is Our Homeland: Global Communities, Local Exclusions 54 3. In the Margins of the Margin: Workingwomen and Their Struggle for Remembrance 82 4. Becoming Politicians: The Socialist Party and the Politics of Legitimation 108 5. Strike against Labor: The 1933 Student Mobilizations 134 6. Minor Theft: Consolidating the Barriada's Ideational Archive 156 Epilogue 180 Notes 191 Bibliography 221 Index 251 RightsBack to Top Sales/Territorial Rights: World Rights and licensing Awards Back to Top Additional InformationBack to Top Related links Jorell Meléndez-Badillo's website Read an interview with Jorell Meléndez-Badillo in The Abusable Past Watch the book launch for The Lettered Barriada Listen to an Interview with Jorell A. Meléndez-Badillo on the New Books Network Caribbean Studies Podcast Paper ISBN: 978-1-4780-1478-2 / Cloth ISBN: 978-1-4780-1385-3 Publicity material Front Cover Image High Resolution Cover Related Items Also Viewed Also Purchased Also Viewed This Nonviolent Stuff′ll Get You Killed Reckoning with Slavery Cold War Anthropology Subversive Habits A Kiss across the Ocean Trouillot Remixed The School of the Americas The Rise of the American Conservation Movement The Intimacies of Four Continents The Florida Room Also Purchased Magical Habits In Magical Habits Monica Huerta draws on her experiences growing up in her family's Mexican restaurants and her life as a scholar of literature and... Scales of Captivity In Scales of Captivity, Mary Pat Brady traces the figure of the captive or cast-off child in Latinx and Chicanx literature and art between chattel slavery... Trouillot Remixed Throughout his career, the internationally renowned Haitian anthropologist Michel-Rolph Trouillot unsettled key concepts in anthropology, history... Unintended Lessons of Revolution In the 1920s, Mexico established rural normales—boarding schools that trained teachers in a new nation-building project. Drawn from campesino ranks and... Duke University Press 905 W. Main St. Ste 18-B Durham, NC 27701 USA Phone (888) 651-0122 International +1 (919) 688-5134 Email orders@dukeupress.edu Information For Advertisers Agents and Vendors Book Authors and Editors Booksellers / Media / Review Copies Customers Educators Librarians and Consortia Journal Authors and Editors Licensing and Subsidiary Rights Mathematics Authors and Editors Prospective Journals Scholarly Publishing Collective Societies Careers View Open Positions Working at Duke University Press Join Our Mailing List Recent Catalogs Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Pintrest Instagram © 2022 Duke University Press. All Rights Reserved. Accessibility Legal Privacy Top