Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Fueled by Temple Experiences You are here Home About News & Media Temple's Impact Fueled by Temple Experiences Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library For this Temple alumnus, every day requires the intensity of a full-court press—exactly the kind of fast-paced, no-break environment in which he thrives. Now, Douglas Ammon, KLN ’15, oversees the real-time social media strategy for the NBA. But it wasn’t all that long ago that he was an Owl-in-the-making, pursuing a master’s and a professional passion still in its earliest stages. “Without going to Temple and getting my master of journalism, I would have a totally different career path,” Ammon said. “I wouldn’t be where I am without it.” A Temple Tip-off Ammon’s path began at Klein College of Media and Communication, cutting his teeth in introductory courses and discovering his voice as a sports writer. Ammon was attracted to Temple initially because of the prospect of hands-on experience in Philadelphia, the nation’s fourth-largest media market. He took full advantage, earning internships with the Philadelphia Union and 76ers. He also had other Owls in his family—his father, mother and uncle received degrees from Beasley School of Law, the College of Public Health and the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, respectively. Doug Ammon ’15 Klein College of Media and Communication “Temple set me up with my first-ever sports journalism internship, doing digital media for the Philadelphia Union, which was a fantastic experience. Taking what I learned at Temple and putting it into practice on a real-world level—that solidified for me that this is what I wanted to do.” A Passion for Persevering There are 9-to-5 workdays. And then there are Doug Ammon workdays. As the manager of digital and social content publishing for the NBA, Ammon clocks in at around 5 or 6 p.m., just as most people are leaving the office. He doesn’t clock out until NBA games on the West Coast have wrapped up, usually around 2 or 3 a.m. In between, Ammon says, it’s “organized chaos.” He wouldn’t have it any other way. “When you get into the sports media business,” Ammon said, “you go into it with the understanding that you’re not going to live a normal life.” Committed to Conquering Content Ammon and his team, operating out of the Content Command Center in Secaucus, New Jersey, watch each game’s broadcast unfold, identifying any potential highlights, from massive dunks to in-arena fan moments. From there, copy is crafted and funneled to Ammon, who makes an instant decision on how it should be deployed to the NBA’s 100 million followers. Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, Snapchat, YouTube and, more recently, even TikTok—Ammon makes use of them all. “I’m the last real line of defense before anything gets published,” he said. “You will know quickly when a mistake is made. Fans on social media are ruthless. But there’s also the instant gratification of doing something that’s well-received on social—producing a piece of content, seeing it go up and immediately seeing 100,000–200,000 likes and 5 million views.” With the NBA draft, NBA training camps, the WNBA and more, there really is no offseason for Ammon and his team. “I don’t think I would have gotten nearly the same amount of daily and nightly joy out of what I do without the initial push from Temple and the confirmation that you can do this and you can do well.” Temple’s 30 Under 30 The 30 Under 30 awards program recognizes trailblazing young alumni who are disrupting the status quo to make a better tomorrow for all of us. We spotlight outstanding Owls who are trendsetters, problem-solvers and innovators, including Doug Ammon. Meet the Awardees Temple Changemakers Get to know more of Temple’s 30 Under 30 award recipients. Each year, Temple honors the achievements of 30 alumni under the age of 30 who are changing the world through the force of their will and the clarity of their vision. Meet the Awardees Read the 2020 30 under 30 awardee profiles Preparing the Next Generation of Professionals A Temple education is career-focused. From working with real-world clients in the classroom, to learning from leading industry experts and taking on internships and other opportunities across Philadelphia, all students have the chance to gain important professional experience and develop the tools necessary to pursue their passion-turned-career. Professional Opportunities At Temple, our students prepare for their next steps long before graduation. Our various graduate opportunities—offered on campus, off campus and everywhere in between—afford real-world, hands-on experiences and internships so students gain the skills needed to set themselves apart. Temple’s location in Philadelphia allows students to take on opportunities year-round in every industry so students can explore their interests and build professional experience easily. And, more than 800 employers visit campus each year. Our robust alumni network—which includes over 140,000 alumni in the Philadelphia region and 330,000 worldwide—provides even more opportunities for students to receive career guidance and resources. Philadelphia At Temple, Philadelphia serves as the classroom for our students and we ensure they can take advantage of all our city has to offer. As a university with deep ties to Philadelphia and its surrounding communities, there’s never a shortage of opportunities for students to work, learn and grow. As one of the largest cities on the East Coast and a modern center of industry, Philadelphia is rich with history, culture and opportunity. And, with so many alumni based in the region, students have access to internship and job experiences in one of the many companies and organizations that are based here. Career Expertise Our world-renowned faculty and staff know that pursuing a graduate degree at Temple means pursuing a passion-turned-career path. Owls aim for action and often, that means preparing for a professional role long before you’re actually expected to fill it. At Temple, we offer a number of professional development services, including internships across campus and the city, career coaching, access to industry-specific alumni, and a variety of other remote and in-person opportunities. You’ll also have access to our Career Center and other resources, like our Center for Student Professional Development, the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development and our Business Communications Center. No matter your interests or ultimate goals, Temple is here to help you develop the skills necessary to not only enter an industry, but lead it. Learn About Our Impact Read more stories about Owls making a difference in the world. View Main Page Go back to AboutMore in Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.