Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Higher Education EdD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Higher Education EdD Apply Visit Request More Info Higher Education EdD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Higher Education EdD The Higher Education EdD in the College of Education and Human Development prepares accomplished higher education professionals for senior leadership positions in colleges and universities. Some students become faculty members in colleges or universities, using their higher education doctorate as a capstone for teaching in other disciplines, especially at the two-year college level, and in applied disciplines. Alumni of this program include provosts, deans and directors in many areas, such as academic and student affairs, business, continuing education, development, and technology. The program is designed to provide both a rich intellectual and theoretical background and applied experiences. This program provides higher education leaders with key knowledge and skills, including the ability to critically examine, diagnose and address persistent inequity in college access and success; an advanced understanding of the cultural, economic, historical, legal, political and social contexts of higher education administration; the skills necessary to find, review and apply evidence from scholarly and policy research; and a strong grasp of concepts of governance and the financial structures of postsecondary institutions. Temple’s Higher Education EdD program can be completed on a full- or part-time basis, with evening classes offered to accommodate the schedules of working higher education professionals. Program Requirements Beyond a master’s degree or at least 30 graduate credits in a related field, curriculum requirements for this doctoral program include core higher education courses (12 credits), advanced research methods (12 credits), a comprehensive exam and a dissertation (9 credits), and electives (6 credits). A total of 69 credit hours is required for completion of this degree. Learn more about the Higher Education EdD curriculum requirements. Related Graduate Degrees Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Higher Education Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success Diversity Leadership in Higher Education Institutional Effectiveness Leadership in Instructional Technology for Higher Education Student Affairs Leadership Teaching in Higher Education Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Joseph Paris, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty program contact for the Higher Education EdD. Phone: 215-204-2810 Email: joseph.paris@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-HIED-EDD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Higher Education EdD Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info