Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services Non-Enrolled Collections Student Financial Services is responsible for recovering monies owed to the University by students who are no longer enrolled. This responsibility includes: Federal Perkins Loans Student Financial Services is responsible for the collection of Federal Perkins Loans. We contract with a third-party billing company, Heartland ECSI, Inc, for the billing and collection of our Federal Perkins Student Loans. Their website address is http://www.heartlandecsi.com/. You may access this site to obtain a wide variety of information regarding your Federal Perkins loan accounts, such as: 1. 1098-E Tax Information 2. Online bill payments 3. Information and setup procedures for Automatic Monthly Payments 4. Deferment, Forbearance and Cancellation Forms Perkins Loan Exit Interview The purpose of the Perkins Loan Exit Interview is to inform you of your rights and responsibilities regarding repayment of any loan(s) you have received while attending Clemson University. This conference also allows you the opportunity to complete the exit interview forms as required by federal regulations. Please make a special note of the following: 1. Federal regulations require that students complete an exit interview when: a) The student drops below six credit hours of study b) The student graduates c) The student withdraws from Clemson University d) The student transfers from to another University 2. If you cannot make a scheduled payment for any reason, have changed your name, or need to update your billing address, notify Heartland ECSI, Inc. 3. The billing agent for Clemson University is: Heartland ECSI, Inc. 181 Montour Run Road Coraopolis, PA 15108 1-888-549-ECSI 4. It is your responsibility to notify Heartland ECSI at 181 Montour Run Road, Coraopolis, PA 15108, or call 1-888-549-ECSI if you have changed your name or billing address. 5. If you are eligible for deferment, postponement or partial cancellation benefits, you must file the appropriate form and be adequately certified promptly. Forms are available from our billing agent and can be accessed here. New Identity Validation Process Due to recent changes announced last Fall from the Department of Education Federal Student Aid (Department), the login process for various Department of Education websites will be changing. These changes include the elimination of the FAFSA PIN. Due to this change, we will no longer be able to access the Student Authentication Network (STAN) to authenticate students that are electronically signing their Promissory Notes. Because we are required to validate the student’s identity, we must use a third-party service provider to complete the validation process. If the third-party service cannot validate the student’s identity, the student must print, complete, and sign the Promissory Note package and return the original Promissory Note to Clemson. We cannot accept a faxed, scanned, or emailed copy of the Promissory Note. Students have three attempts to submit their information for authentication. After the third failed attempt, the student must complete the failed authentication process, including completing the entrance counseling online and printing the promissory note for signature. Outstanding Student Account Balance Any student with a balance will be unable to request a transcript from Clemson University. Please contact Student Financial Services to discuss your balance and determine payment options. Departments within the University have the option to transfer delinquent, uncollectible accounts to Student Financial Services to be placed on your iROAR account. Once University accounts are transferred to Student Financial Services, payments must be made to our department. Non-Payment Actions Non-payment will result in the following University actions: Assessment of billing and collection charges Placement of hold on all University services, including transcripts, diplomas, and access to register for subsequent semesters Placement of the account with a collection agency For more information, see the Student Handbook, Policies, Student Financial Responsibilities. If you cannot pay your debt in full, our department can work out payment arrangements to avoid the placement of the debt with a collection agency. However, students must pay their account with Student Financial Services in full for registration, transcript, or diploma hold release. Payments If you have a hold from Student Financial Services, your payment may be mailed to Student Financial Services, G-08 Sikes Hall, Box345307, Clemson, SC 29634. Please include the name and CUID#. Placement with a Third-Party Collection Agency Delinquent accounts may be placed with one of our third-party collection agencies listed below. If your account has been placed with a collection agency, you will receive notification from the collection agency. All future contact regarding your account should be made directly to that collection agency. Williams & Fudge 300 Chatham Avenue Rock Hill, South Carolina 29731 Phone: 800-849-9791 Fax: 803-329-0797 Email: wf@wfcorp.com Reliant Capital Solutions 750 Cross Pointe Rd., Suite G Gahanna, OH 43230 Toll-Free: 866-837-5096 Fax: 614-452-6039 Set Off Debt Collection Act The Setoff Debt Collection Act is designed to facilitate the collection of debts owed by an individual to an agency of the State. Debtors to the University, which is a State Agency, with debts of $50.00 or greater and in arrears of ninety days or more will be reported to the SC Department of Revenue for potential set off against their SC individual in-come tax refunds. The Department of Revenue will place a hold on State income tax returns due to debtors whose names have been submitted. The Department of Revenue will notify the taxpayer that the University has a claim against the income tax refund. The Department of Revenue will forward the amount of the refund claimed to the University, less a $25 collection fee. The debtor must contact the University's Student Loan Collections for additional information regarding their account. Student records will remain tagged until the financial obligation is satisfied. The act gives the alleged debtor the right to file a written protest for the validity of the debt. The written protest must be submitted within 30 days from the date of notification of the University's claim and contain the information below: Your name Your address Your Social Security number Type of debt in dispute A detailed statement of all reasons you disagree with the debt amount or dispute that you owe the debt The originally written protest must be mailed to Clemson University. For complete information, please contact Student Financial Services. The debtor waives their right to protest if they fail to file a written request within 30 days. Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram