Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Senior Administration About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Senior Administration>President's Council>Nancy Brickhouse Nancy Brickhouse Provost Nancy Brickhouse Provost As Baylor’s chief academic officer, Dr. Brickhouse oversees the University’s 12 colleges and schools, research enterprise, University Libraries, and centers and institutes. Consistent with Baylor’s academic strategic plan, Illuminate, she has led the growth of graduate programs and elevated Baylor’s research and scholarship profile. She previously served as provost at Saint Louis University (SLU), a Jesuit research university with 8,000 undergraduate students and 6,000 graduate students at its main campus in St. Louis. During her tenure, she played a key role in repositioning SLU’s finance, operations, and academic endeavors to meet a rapidly changing higher education landscape. Dr. Brickhouse is a tenured professor of education and a nationally recognized scholar. She graduated from Baylor magna cum laude with a bachelor’s degree in chemistry, going on to earn a master’s degree in chemistry and a doctorate in science education from Purdue University. Prior to her appointment as SLU’s provost in 2015, Dr. Brickhouse filled several senior administrative positions during 27 years of service and leadership at the University of Delaware, including the roles of deputy provost, interim provost — for which she received special recognition from the UD Board of Trustees for her exemplary service, deputy dean of the College of Education and Human Development, and director of the School of Education. Upon assuming this position, Dr. Brickhouse has observed, “The provost position is the one that is closest to the faculty and the students, and that’s why I love the role and why I feel so blessed to be asked to fulfill that role at Baylor, a place that has meant so much to me both personally and professionally.” More Information Office of the Provost Senior Administration Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Office of the President University Council Administrative Departments Organizational Chart About Baylor