Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Provost's Teaching Awards Provost's Research Awards Distinguished Professorships Luis Glaser Fellowship in Integrated Teaching and Learning Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Provost's Teaching Awards Provost's Research Awards Distinguished Professorships Luis Glaser Fellowship in Integrated Teaching and Learning $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas Research Development and Evaluation Provost’s Awards AAA Provost’s Awards Public Voices Fellowship Arts & Humanities Fellowship Grant Writing Support Provost's Awards Provost's Teaching Awards Provost's Research Awards Distinguished Professorships Luis Glaser Fellowship in Integrated Teaching and Learning Great faculty are the heart of the University of Miami—the teachers, scholars, researchers, and mentors who discover and transmit knowledge and inspire students to make a difference in the world. The University has attracted and retained exceptional faculty who are leaders in their disciplines, and they are recognized by programs such as the Provost’s Award for Scholarly Activity, the Distinguished Faculty Scholar Award, and the University Distinguished Professorships. Provost’s Research Awards Distinguished Professorships Luis Glaser Fellowship in Integrated Teaching and Learning University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices