HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Wellness When to See a Provider CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities When to See a Provider College is challenging on many fronts. Rushing to classes, studying, taking tests and possibly also working can cause extreme exhaustion and a weakened immune system. Add close contact with other students and you have the perfect conditions for catching an infectious disease such as the flu, the common cold, meningitis, conjunctivitis, mononucleosis, upper respiratory infection and gastroenteritis. Primary Care Generally, if you have a routine problem that does not constitute an emergency, you would see a primary care provider. If you're on Clemson's main campus, you can make an appointment at Redfern Health Center to see a primary care provider. If you have an urgent problem when Redfern is open, you can just walk-in to Redfern and be seen through the Nurse's Clinic without an appointment. After your appointment, you can fill your prescriptions and purchase over-the-counter products in Redfern Health Center's pharmacy. If you're located off Clemson's main campus and you have Clemson University's Student Health Insurance Plan, you can find an in-network Preferred Provider in your area on Blue Cross Blue Shield's website. Deductibles and co-pays apply for any visits outside of Redfern Health Center. Urgent Care If Redfern or the primary care facility in your area is closed, and you feel you can’t wait, consider visiting an urgent care clinic for non-life threatening conditions. No appointment is required, but wait times are variable depending on how many other patients are waiting to be seen. Urgent care clinics fill the gap between primary care providers and the emergency room. You will be responsible for any fees incurred. If you have Clemson University's Student Health Insurance Plan, you can find an in-network Preferred Provider in your area. Deductibles and co-pays will apply; please note that the co-pay for visiting an urgent care facility is higher than that for primary care. See Urgent Care Centers Near Clemson Emergencies The emergency room is where you would go if you had a true life threatening emergency and cannot wait to be seen in a primary care or urgent care facility. If you are not able to take yourself there, call 911 for transport in an ambulance. You will be responsible for any fees incurred. If you have Clemson University's Student Health Insurance Plan, you can find an in-network Preferred Provider in your area. Deductibles and co-pays will apply; please note that the co-pay for visiting an emergency room is much higher than that for urgent care and primary care See Emergency Rooms Near Clemson Mental Health/Suicide Emergencies Sexual Assault/Relationship Violence Emergencies Symptoms To decide what kind of facility you need, pay attention to your symptoms. Visit a primary care provider at Redfern or in your area if you have: Been sick for several days and are not getting better High fever (above 100.4 degrees F) Trouble breathing Intense pain Extreme nausea, vomiting or diarrhea You also want to see a doctor if you have any kind of discharge or sores in or around your genitals that may indicate a sexually transmitted infection. Check out the Sexual Health web page to learn more about STIs and their symptoms. What to do if you get a cold or the flu? Other things can go wrong in the body; seek medical attention as soon as possible if you have: Black or bloody stools Sudden weight loss Persistent dizziness or fatigue Heavy sweating (not induced by exercise) Rapid or galloping heartbeats Sudden stopping of period, a period that lasts longer than usual or is excessively heavy Swelling or redness in or around an eye Vision problems If you have any of these symptoms, seek help immediately: Chest pain Pain in the calf that worsens when walking Swelling in the ankles or legs Call 911 immediately if you have these symptoms of a stroke: Memory loss or confusion Blurred or double vision Slurred speech Loss of balance Seizure Numbness or weakness in the arms, legs or face Strokes can happen to anyone at any age, and it's important to get care as soon as possible. Mental Health Stress and anxiety are normal responses to life, but too much can hurt us both mentally and physically. If you feel overwhelmed, feel you cannot cope, have suicidal thoughts, or are using drugs or alcohol to cope, seek help from a qualified mental health care provider. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is located in Redfern Health Center and offers a variety of programs and services. Visit the CAPS website to learn more about the types of therapy and how to access services. Most of all, trust your instincts: if you feel something is wrong with you, seek care from a professional provider. It is always better to be safe than sorry, especially when it comes to your health. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster