Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Graduate Student Government Grad Student Government right arrow down arrow About us right arrow down arrow GSG Executive Board GSG Constitution right arrow down arrow GSG Bylaws GSG Member Groups List Awards right arrow down arrow Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Talk to Us Programs right arrow down arrow Graduate Student Orientation and Welcome right arrow down arrow GSA Officer Orientation Home » Campus Life » Graduate Student Government » Awards » GSG Excellence Awards » Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award Set Navigation title in component Group Budget Awards Group & Community Grant Awards Conference Awards GSG Excellence Awards Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award GSG Research Fellowship Awards Presidential Medal of Graduate Student Excellence Graduate Student Risk Management Awareness Award First established in 2018, this $1000 award is to recognize graduate students at UC whose research or project demonstrates the student has excelled in taking a more holistic approach to managing the risk inherent in their work. The award is sponsored by the UC Department of Enterprise Risk Management and is given to a graduate student whose efforts have promoted a culture of risk management awareness that can positively influence a group or community. These efforts could be part of the student’s research, or a personal effort that complements their academic work. A risk-aware culture shares values or beliefs that tie to a common purpose of reducing or managing risk while still positively promoting opportunity and mission. A risk-aware culture shares values or beliefs that tie to a common purpose of reducing or managing risk while still positively promoting opportunity and mission. A risk-aware culture shares values or beliefs that tie to a common purpose of reducing or managing risk while still positively promoting opportunity and mission. Risk Management Award Criteria Rubric Project or research should demonstrate the following attributes: Principle (25 pts) : right arrow down arrow Demonstrates key aspects of the risk management process as outlined by ERM. Influence (20 pts) : right arrow down arrow Shapes knowledge, attitudes and behaviors influencing a particular risk, such that outcomes may inform decision-making, objectives and strategies. Particular preference given to cross college or cross-disciplinary projects. Innovation (20 pts) : right arrow down arrow Develops or utilizes new techniques to cope with the risk or engage a community. Effectiveness (20 pts) : right arrow down arrow Takes actions that lead to measurable progress in impacting the risk or opportunity and/or culture directly. Scope (15 pts) : right arrow down arrow Addresses risks to individuals (e.g. addiction, bankruptcy, challenges of aging), groups (e.g. health disparities, incarceration) or populations (e.g. cybersecurity, privacy). All academic disciplines are eligible to apply. Risk Management Award Application Guidelines Applicants are required to submit their application that demonstrate the risk management evaluation process for a specific initiative. To understand the process please refer UC 's Enterprise Risk Management website. Before you begin to write your submission, we recommend you familiarize yourself with the type of information required in each section. Each section contains a set of bullet points as suggested inclusions. You may combine or exclude any of the suggested points from each section as these can be adapted to suit your submission. You are not limited to just the suggested inclusions and you may include other relevant information. Application needs to be submitted through our online application form. Application page As a part of your application you are requried to submit one application page. The application should be one page maximum on 8.5x11 sized paper, using minimum 11 point font and one inch margins throughout. Some of the suggested inclusions for sections within your applciation page are PROFILE Suggested Inclusions right arrow down arrow Provide background information and rationale for the project. Define the importance of this initiative to your graduate studies and the industry, sector, or community in which it operates. METHOD Suggested Inclusions right arrow down arrow Outline the key elements of the initiative or project defining the goals and objectives. Outline the planning, research and development process that has been undertaken. Define the research methodology and methods used or planned. Outline any key performance indicators that were set to monitor progress. Note: Key aspects of the risk management process should be emphasized in this section (e.g. Risk Identification, Risk Analysis/Evaluation, Risk Treatment, Risk Monitoring, as well as Opportunity Analysis) EXECUTION Suggested Inclusions right arrow down arrow Outline how the initiative was or will be implemented detailing each stage until completion. Define resources allocated or required throughout the implementation process. Describe collaboration required to execute effectively. Describe difficulties or challenges encountered and how they were (will be) addressed Note: Key aspects of the risk management process should be emphasized in this section. (e.g. Risk Identification, Risk Analysis/Evaluation, Risk Treatment, Risk Monitoring, as well as Opportunity Analysis) OUTCOMES Suggested Inclusions: right arrow down arrow Define how the initiative has or will succeed in creating value. Outline the most important factors contributing to the initiatives success. Where possible, provide data to demonstrate benefits, impact and value creation. Outline any commercial, environmental and/or societal benefits achieved. Indicate any publications that have come from your work. Note: Key aspects of the risk management process should be emphasized in this section. (e.g. Risk Identification, Risk Analysis/Evaluation, Risk Treatment, Risk Monitoring, as well as Opportunity Analysis) Please note, there is no minimum or maximum word count requirement for any section. However, the entire application should not exceed one page. Supporting information can be included in an appendix with the "application page", but is limited to published work directly related to the project (peer-reviewed publications from your team, magazine or other popular press articles about the project, etc). Inclusion of other materials in the appendix will disqualify the application from consideration. Supporting Materials for the Application In addition to the above application page, you will need the below seupporting materials to submit your online award application. Proof of current semester registration right arrow down arrow This is found in the student’s Catalyst account. Official or Unofficial grade report right arrow down arrow The most recently completed semester grade report (Official or Unofficial), showing overall GPA. Information related to the Project right arrow down arrow As a part of the application you will need to submit a 100 word summary of the project you are proposing for the award and its importance. You will need to indicate key collaborators (including any overseeing faculty and project lead) as prompted within the application. Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Graduate Student Government 683 Steger Student Life Center University of Cincinnati PO Box 210193 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6101 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top