Skip to main content Main Menu Degrees & Programs Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Online Data Master's Ph.D. Program Multimedia Certificate Admissions Undergraduate Master's Ph.D. Multimedia Certificate Why Merrill Howard Center Povich Center Capital News Service Research Diversity Student Organizations Internships Study Abroad Alumni & Giving Get In Touch Email Updates Alumni Network About Centers & Organizations Our Experts News Events Technology & Equipment UMTV Board of Visitors Information for Employers Directory Become #MerrillMade Learn from the best. Become one of the best. Practice real-world journalism from day one, with guidance from our all-star, experienced faculty. All at one of the nation's top public universities, on the doorstep of the journalism capital of the world. More Information Investigative Journalism Sports Journalism Capital News Service Our Experts Research APPLY GIVE Graduate Info Sessions June 8 Undergraduate student scholarship application deadline for 2022-23 Nov. 1 Undergraduate Early Action application deadline for Fall 2023 Dec. 1 Master's Early Action application deadline for Fall 2023 Top 10 Merrill College has been ranked a top-10 journalism school by multiple services 17 Pulitzer Prizes and Peabody Awards won or directed by current faculty and staff 18 Maximum number of students per skills class at Merrill College View previous stat View next stat New Program Alert Merrill College & UMD iSchool to Offer From-Anywhere Data Journalism Master's Degree Beginning Fall 2022 It will be Merrill's first degree that can be completed entirely online. Apply today. Learn More Why Merrill? The Philip Merrill College of Journalism prepares you for the real world. Our students report from Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Annapolis and College Park through our Capital News Service. They investigate issues of national importance at the Howard Center for Investigative Journalism and learn to look beyond the box score at The Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism. Data reporting is weaved through every inch of our curriculum and practiced in our signature programs. Our graduates are hired and desired by the top news outlets in the country. There are a few standout journalism colleges in the country. But Merrill is the only one standing in the media capital of the world, which serves as its laboratory. Kevin Blackistone Professor of the Practice Howard Center The Howard Center for Investigative Journalism allows students to work with news organizations and universities across the country to report stories of national and international importance. Learn more Povich Center The Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism prepares students to be innovators and leaders in all facets of sports media. Its experiential curriculum and public programs elevate and amplify discussion of race, gender, politics and the world. Learn more Capital News Service Overseen by professional journalists, Capital News Service is the University of Maryland’s student-powered news organization with bureaus and news teams in Annapolis, Baltimore, Washington and College Park. Learn more National Association of Black Journalists NABJ, headquartered in Knight Hall, is an organization of journalists, students and media professionals providing quality programs and services to, and advocating on behalf of, Black journalists. Learn more More Centers and Organizations The Philip Merrill College of Journalism hosts and supports a number of signature centers and organizations in Knight Hall, a state-of-the-art facility just a few miles from Washington, D.C. Learn more Cutting-Edge Research The college's faculty and graduate students are active researchers, serving the public and the profession by producing rigorous scholarly work that seeks to improve journalism. Learn more #MerrillMade Alumni Connie Chung Former TV Anchor/Correspondent, CBS, CNN, NBC, ABC, MSNBC View Profile for Connie Chung Emilio Garcia-Ruiz Editor In Chief, San Francisco Chronicle View Profile for Emilio Garcia-Ruiz Scott Van Pelt Anchor, ESPN SportsCenter View Profile for Scott Van Pelt Maria Douglas Reeve Executive Editor, Houston Chronicle View Profile for Maria Douglas Reeve Sara Murray Political Correspondent, CNN View Profile for Sara Murray Robert Klemko Reporter, The Washington Post View Profile for Robert Klemko News Search Category - Any -Capital News ServiceHoward CenterMerrill CollegePovich Center Author May 12, 2022 Povich, Howard Centers Win Drake Group Student Investigative Journalism Award for Title IX Project COLLEGE PARK – The Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism and the Howard Center for Investigative Journalism at the University of Maryland Philip Merrill Co May 12, 2022 Merrill's Dr. Rob Wells Appointed to Rank of Associate Professor with Tenure COLLEGE PARK – Dr. Rob Wells, a visiting associate professor at the University of Maryland’s Philip Merrill College of Journalism, has been appointed to the rank of Associate Professor with tenure, University President Darryll Pines announced this week. May 12, 2022 Merrill College Spring 2022 Commencement: When, where and more The University of Maryland Philip Merrill College of Journalism is planning to hold its Spring 2022 college commencement ceremony in person. No tickets are required for the Merrill commencement ceremony. When: Thursday, May 19, at 10 a.m. Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Nextpage Lastpage Info for Students Info for Employees Visit Apply Now Give Now Contact Board of Visitors Philip Merrill College of Journalism 7765 Alumni Drive, College Park, MD 20742, USA 301.405.2399 · journalism@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Information for Visitors FAQ's Contact Us Careers Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Accessibility Policies & Procedures Public Records Request Back to Top