Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM Apply Request More Info Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Instrumental Conducting with Wind-Band Emphasis Develop an advanced understanding of the artistry and technique of wind-band conducting with the Master of Music in Instrumental Conducting with Wind-Band Emphasis in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Focus on wind instruments and band ensembles. Students who complete this 32-credit, six-year master’s degree are prepared for doctoral studies, as well as careers as conductor-educators in an academic or professional setting. Learn how to conduct rehearsals and train your ear to identify simultaneous musical events in ensembles. Through the coursework, you will learn effective and thorough score study and preparation, develop advanced physical conducting technique, and train to lead efficient rehearsals and sectionals, culminating in performance. In addition to lesson courses, you’ll explore music analysis and style, as well as performance. Based in Philadelphia, the program gives students the opportunity to study in close proximity to prestigious institutions such as the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts and The Philadelphia Orchestra. The Master of Music in Instrumental Conducting with Wind-Band Emphasis is part of Temple’s interdisciplinary Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover instrumental studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer instrumental studies degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Students in the Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM program receive advanced instruction in conducting technique, artistry and scholarship. Required courses you must take during your program include Advanced Orchestral Conducting; Private Lessons: Instrumental Conducting Major; Research in Music; and Wind Repertory in History: European Antiquity through the 21st Century. Learn more about Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Choral Conducting MM Collaborative Piano and Chamber Music MM Collaborative Piano and Opera Coaching MM Jazz Studies MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Composition MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Performance MM Piano Pedagogy MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Patricia Cornett is the director of bands and program contact for the Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM. Phone: 215-204-8335 Email: patricia.cornett@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-ICWB-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Instrumental Conducting Wind Band MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info