Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Computer Engineering Program Main Navigation About Degrees Faculty and Staff Resources News Advisory Board Contact Us Donate Computer Engineering Program Welcome to the Computer Engineering Program (CpE) in the College of Engineering and Computer Science at California State University, Fullerton (CSUF). Over the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in demand for computer engineers in various fields ranging from the area of mobile devices (smartphones, tablets, etc.) to high-performance computing systems needed for e-prescription and electronic health record-keeping. This trend only continues to grow. CpE is committed to providing exciting academic programs. It strives to combine the best facilities along with a driven faculty and an innovative curriculum to prepare students for the significant engineering challenges of the 21st century. The program offers an undergraduate (BS), a graduate (MS) and a 4-Year Integrated BS-MS degree in Computer Engineering. Graduate Admission To apply to the M.S. in Computer Engineering program, apply and pay the $70 application fee online at Cal State Apply . Your application will be received faster and therefore processed more quickly if you apply and pay online. Your application cannot be processed until payment has been received. Please visit the ECS Graduate and International Admissions website for more information. CpE’s undergraduate program is ranked #7 in the nation, among non-PhD granting institutions, according to the 2021 US News and World report The Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET IEEE CS (PACE) The IEEE CS (PACE) Student Chapter is affiliated to the National IEEE and National IEEE Computer Society (CS). If you are majoring in Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering, or Computer Science, then this society would be a great way to get involved and learn about the major. Cadence University Program Cadence products are used by CSUF undergraduate and graduate Computer Engineering students. See the Cadence University Program webpage for more information. Computer Engineering Labs New Upgraded CpE Labs Senior Design Projects Senior Projects Events CpE's Events This site is maintained by Computer Engineering Program. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.