Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Coronavirus Updates Academic Year 2021-2022 Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Health Resources Campus Protocols Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2021-2022 Faculty and Staff Resources Coronavirus Research FAQs Academic Year 2021-2022 As a result of changes in CDC and NYS regulations, and with the introduction of Columbia University’s mandatory vaccination policy for all students, faculty, and staff, we are pleased to announce to return to fully in-person instruction for Fall 2021. The Office of Education is here to help! Visit us online for helpful information on who to contact when. Helpful offices and emails to save: Office of Student Affairs/Academic Affairs: msph-osa@cumc.columbia.edu Office of Financial Aid: sphfinaid@columbia.edu Office of Careers and Professional Practice: msphocs@cumc.columbia.edu (for career services) & msph-ofp@cumc.columbia.edu (for practicum questions) Office of Admissions: ph-admit@columbia.edu Office of Diversity, Culture, and Inclusion: msph-odci@columbia.edu Preparing for return to campus for Spring 2022 Remote instruction for the month of January All Columbia Mailman classes will be remote for January 2022 to allow for staggering of gateway testing for Columbia students overall. In-person attendance will resume on Tuesday, February 1. During this period of remote instruction, students are encouraged to use this time to comply with the COVID-19 Booster, Gateway Test, and Influenza Vaccine requirements for returning to campus. COVID-19 Booster Mandate The current COVID-19 vaccination mandate will be expanded to require booster doses for all faculty, staff and students who meet the criteria for eligibility. If you received a vaccine/booster from any site other than the Student Health on Haven office at 100 Haven Avenue (including any other University-run vaccination site such as Lerner Hall, ColumbiaDoctors, etc.), you must upload your vaccine documentation in the ‘Medical Clearances’ section of the CUIMC Student Health Portal. Students should take care not to inadvertently upload vaccination or booster information to the Columbia Health Patient Portal on the Morningside Campus. All Medical Campus student information must be loaded to the Student Health on Haven CUIMC Student Health Portal. You'll know you've accessed the correct portal if the Student Health on Haven logo is visible. In depth information on receiving the Booster or uploading proof is available online. Required Gateway Test for Spring 2022 Columbia Mailman students are strongly recommended to get a PCR test prior to return to campus and are required to get a gateway test from a Columbia University testing site within 72 hours of return to campus and access of Columbia buildings for any reason. The Columbia gateway test must be completed by February 4, 2022. Campus access will be allowed while awaiting results of the gateway test. After February 4, 2022, red passes will be applied to all those who are not compliant with the gateway testing requirement outlined below. Information on the Gateway Test and scheduling an appointment is online. Masks Effective March 14, indoor masking is optional. Mask-optional means that you may remove your mask indoors, starting on March 14, if you so choose, but you may of course continue to wear a mask if that is appropriate for you. This mask-optional policy does not apply to health care workers or students involved in health care or clinical activities. All faculty, staff, and students who are in direct contact with patients or in direct contact with providers who see patients shall continue to need to wear masks. Required Influenza Vaccination Participation in the influenza vaccination program is mandatory for all students. Those whom have yet to comply have had a Hold placed on their account visible in Student Services Online (SSOL) - holds prevent students from registering or adjusting their enrolled courses. Holds left unaddressed because of lack of submission may result in deregistration of courses and removal of campus access. If you received a Flu Shot from any site other than the Student Health on Haven office at 100 Haven Avenue (including your primary care physician, a pharmacy, ColumbiaDoctors, etc.), you must submit proof (both a vaccination date and supporting documentation) to the CUIMC Student Health Portal. How can I pick-up my Columbia ID? Students who have not picked up their Columbia ID should contact the Office of Student Affairs at msph-osa@cumc.columbia.edu. What steps must students take before returning to Campus for the first time? The start of the fall term is rapidly approaching. Students must completed all the steps outlined below prior to returning to campus. These five steps are required for you to freely access University campuses and facilities starting this fall. Students traveling internationally prior to coming to campus should review the information below as well the linked information here (the next FAQ on this list). 1) Download the ReOpenCU app (App Store or Android) or bookmark the web version. You will need this to complete Step 3, and to begin daily attestation once you start accessing University facilities. 2) Get vaccinated and upload documentation or request an exemption by August 2. When uploading documentation on the Columbia Health Patient Portal (Morningside) or Student Health on Haven Patient Portal (CUIMC), don’t forget to upload a copy of your vaccination record (including booster). Entering dates only does not complete the requirement. Step-by-step instructions are available on the COVID-19 website. If you wish to submit a medical exemption request or religious exemption request, please submit all required documentation as soon as possible and before August 2, as the University may request additional supporting documentation. Incomplete submissions will not be reviewed. If you have already submitted documentation or requested an exemption, thank you. Your ReOpenCU status will be updated before August 2. Students who received a vaccine from Columbia Health on the Morningside campus have their records updated automatically and do not need to upload records. Verification can be viewed at any time by accessing the Immunizations section of your Patient Portal. For international students who were unable to complete the required COVID-19 vaccination with FDA or WHO authorized vaccines before campus arrival, you can receive a COVID-19 vaccine upon arrival. Read these guidelines for more details. 3) Review and sign the revised Columbia Community Health Compact. Use the ReopenCU Symptom Self-check app or web application to sign the Compact. 4) Complete the Safety Training. New and returning students who have previously not taken the safety training must complete it. The new training will be available soon. 5) If you are accessing Columbia campuses and facilities during the fall 2021 term for the first time since January 2021, complete the gateway testing requirement. Affiliates who are vaccinated must still complete the gateway test. Schedule an appointment through the Columbia Health Patient Portal. Appointments are available 7-10 days in advance. In the meantime, please continue to practice key health precautions including wearing a mask and physically distancing in indoor spaces, frequent handwashing/sanitizing, and staying home if you are feeling sick, regardless of your vaccination status. Travel Quarantine As of June 25, travel quarantine is no longer required for fully vaccinated, asymptomatic individuals arriving in New York State from out of state or abroad. However, all unvaccinated individuals arriving from an international location are required to: Get tested (PCR or antigen tests acceptable) 1-3 days before their trip, Get tested (PCR testing only) through Columbia program 3-5 days after arrival, Quarantine (7 days if tested on day 3-5 or 10 days without a test), and Monitor your symptoms and avoid people with higher risk for severe disease for 14 days. Learn more about quarantine protocols on the COVID-19 website. You may quarantine in a single room on campus or in your own room in an apartment setting, even if sharing the apartment with others. The University is working hard to ensure that we have a fully vaccinated campus, as defined by the CDC, by Fall 2021 and are able to return to more “normal” operations. Vaccination is our main shield against COVID-19 including the new delta variant. Your timely completion of these steps is crucial. We are actively monitoring the status of the COVID-19 pandemic and are ready to adjust our procedures as needed. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to these steps, and for helping us have a vibrant, in-person Columbia experience in September. Are there any special instructions for students traveling internationally prior to coming to campus? Students arriving from an international location may have additional steps they need to complete and University policies to consider. Studends can find helpful information linked down below. COVID-19 Resource Guide for International Students FAQs Regarding COVID-19 Vaccination Especially for International Students If I cannot make it to campus, can I continue to take courses remotely? Students who are not able to come to campus twill have to defer their admission or take a leave of absence. We will not be offering courses in a remote format. Students with questions about Visa issues should reach out to the International Students and Scholars Office (ISSO). As a newly admitted student, if I opt to defer the start of my program to Fall 2022, what happens to my financial aid? While you will still maintain eligibility for federal aid once you submit a new FAFSA for 22-23, if you received a scholarship/grant, it has been our standing policy that students who elect to defer the start of their program forfeit their scholarship/grant and is not guaranteed to be renewed. Our office will place you in our pool of candidates for review with the new incoming class for 22-23. I am a continuing student who opts to take a leave of absence for 21-22 what happens to my financial aid? Once a new FAFSA for 22-23 has been submitted, your federal aid will be reassessed and renewed. If you received a scholarship/grant during your first year of study at Columbia Public Health, our Financial Aid office will review our budget for 22-23 to determine if your scholarship award can be offered when you return from your leave of absence. Please feel free to contact our Financial Aid Office to schedule an appointment to discuss your package further. Do I have to quarantine when I arrive in NY State? Visit NYS COVID site to keep up to date on the New York State requirements. Will all my classes be conducted in person? While we will not be able to offer fully remote instruction for any of our programs (except the Online EPI MS), some courses will be offered in online or hybrid modalities. Information about individual courses will be available in the course directory. How do I request a Deferral or Leave of Absence? New Students Incoming students who have not yet matriculated may request to defer their admission by emailing ph-admit@columbia.edu to inform the Admissions Team of their decision by June 15th. Students requesting deferrals will be notified as soon as possible after the request is made and will be evaluated on a rolling basis. Please note that deferrals are not guaranteed. For students who defer, scholarships are not guaranteed but you can be reconsidered in your year of enrollment. Continuing Continuing students who need, to delay their degree programs should speak to the Office of Student Affairs regarding a leave of absence (LOA). Continuing students may request to take a LOA at any time prior to the end of the 2021 Fall semester Change of Program Period. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the WestMay 4 2022 Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers