Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems Gain a thorough introduction to an array of cutting-edge spatial analysis technology and mapping software with the Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems in Temple’s College of Liberal Arts. This 12-credit graduate certificate program introduces students to the software used to query, analyze and visualize spatial data. Through the curriculum, you’ll prepare to enter the geographic information systems workforce. Geographic information is increasingly prevalent in everyday life through the growth of the civilian global positioning system, interest in computational and analytical tools used to study it, and mobile and fixed platforms for reporting locational information. This growth fuels demand for well-trained practitioners of geospatial technology in science and the social sciences, as well as in a variety of professional fields. Department faculty have expertise across GIS applications such as business, geovisualization, environment, health, location analysis, urban planning and remote sensing. The Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) is designed to complement Temple’s Professional Science Masters in Geographic Information Systems, and it can serve as a gateway to the program. The certificate also complements graduate programs offered in the College of Education, College of Liberal Arts, College of Public Health, College of Science and Technology, Fox School of Business and Management, and the Klein College of Media and Communication. Classes & Curriculum Courses you are likely to take as part of the Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate curriculum include the following. Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems, in which students form the knowledge necessary to effectively use GIS software packages, as well as learn fundamental principles such as spatial data models, database management systems, network modeling and geo-coding, and basic vector and raster operations. Remote Sensing, in which students are introduced to the most basic concepts and skills for downloading, exploring and processing satellite data for broad remote sensing applications. Spatial Database Design, in which students learn the design and management of spatial databases. Web Mapping and Map Servers, in which students explore theoretical and practical concepts of Web GIS (Internet GIS). Learn more about Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) courses. Careers The Geographic Information Systems Graduate Certificate prepares students to take on advanced research positions in technology-based companies, governmental agencies and non-profit organizations. The program’s elective courses allow students to specialize in the areas of their professional or academic interests. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate), contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the coordinator and program contact for the Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate). Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geographic Information Systems Department. Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration. Phone: 215-204-7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Lee Hachadoorian is the director of the program. Phone: 215-204-3331 Email: lee.hachadoorian@temple.edu Melissa Gilbert is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GIS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info