Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Student Support Show/Hide Concussion Support Student Support Deans manage the academic support and outreach for all concussed undergraduate and graduate students and student-athletes on a short term basis. Students currently on campus should make an appointment with University Health Services (UHS) for an assessment, diagnosis and treatment. UHS will notify our office of your concussion automatically. Students studying remotely can visit their personal physician for an assessment, diagnosis, and treatment. Students should send a copy of a doctor's note to our office via email, [email protected]. Once our office is notified of a concussion, a dean’s note will been sent to faculty (informing professors of the injury and potential need for extensions and/or make up exams), and the student will be copied on this message. A follow up phone call will be made to the student offering additional support and/or an appointment with the Dean of the Day. Approximately 48-72 hours following this phone call, a resource email is sent to each concussed student which reviews and confirms campus resources available. Many students feel nearly recovered within 7-10 days of the injury; however, there are some for whom the recovery is a more prolonged process. For these students, deans will schedule an appointment to discuss additional academic support options, such as an updated dean’s note, course load reduction, incomplete, or the possibility of a change in grade option (if decision is made prior to the deadline). Additionally, for students whose recovery is longer than a two week period, and it has become evident that short term support will not be enough; deans will discuss the possibility of a referral to SAS (Student Accessibility Services) for a more comprehensive academic plan. Home About Meeting with a Dean Administrator on Call Care Team Concussion Support Course Load Reductions Medical Leave of Absence Parents Emergency Contacts Self Care During Difficult Times Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of Student Support Services Office of Student Support Services Brown University Box 2015 Page-Robinson Hall, 5th Floor 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3145 Fax: 401-863-1999 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat