Skip to main content UTS: Promo Links COVID-19 Updates Get Involved Search terms Search icon University of Texas System Toggle navigation Primary Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices Breadcrumbs Home Main page content Chancellor - Image Strip Chancellor - Title Header Office of the Chancellor History of the Office Former Chancellors Contact Chancellor’s Council Twitter Facebook Linked In Office - Chancellor Office of the Chancellor Biography In the Press Remarks and Interviews Virtual Conversations Speaking Request Chancellor - Page Content Welcome to The University of Texas System, one of the finest systems of public higher education in the world. Established by the Texas Constitution in 1876, the UT System includes eight universities and five health institutions. As Chancellor, my job is to help those thirteen institutions be as successful as possible. Success starts, of course, with our students – all 240,000 of them. UT institutions award more than one-third of the undergraduate degrees in Texas and more than half of the state’s medical degrees. So for us, job one is to make sure that the aspiring scholars of Texas have broad, affordable access; that our faculty and the education our students receive is of the highest quality; and that we provide tools that give every student the best chance to earn a degree in a timely manner. I’m pleased to say UT institutions have innovative, nationally recognized initiatives in place to help students achieve their dreams. But we can always do more. And we will. The second element of our institutions’ success is research, which drives innovation that improves and, in many cases, saves lives in Texas and around the world. The UT System is regularly ranked among the top 10 most innovative universities in the world, is among the top three nationally in patent applications, and is the state’s top and nation’s second-ranked leader in federal research spending. Research is key to the competitiveness, health and prosperity of our state, and we are committed to growing our research enterprises in ways that serve Texas and Texans. We rely on the support of the business and philanthropic communities, our elected officials, and most of all, the people of Texas, for everything we do. Last but not least, UT institutions are playing, and will continue to play, a leading role in delivering high quality health care. UT’s health care professionals serve more than two million patients each year, train the caregivers of tomorrow, and lead the charge to find new treatments and cures for the diseases that afflict so many of our neighbors, family and friends. UT institutions are an indispensable part of Texas’s health care infrastructure, and we are determined to create a healthier future for our state, our nation and the world. Those are some of the basic elements that will define the success of the UT System and its institutions in the years to come. But it’s important to note that we can’t do any of it alone. We rely on the support of the business and philanthropic communities, our elected officials, and most of all, the people of Texas, for everything we do. So you can rest assured that my colleagues and I are going to be working hard to earn your support, confidence and trust in the years to come. James B. Milliken Chancellor Lee Hage and Joseph D. Jamail Regents Chair in Higher Education Leadership Twitter Embed - Chancellor Tweets by jbmilliken UT System Links and Contact Information Academic Institutions UT Arlington UT Austin UT Dallas UT El Paso UT Permian Basin UT Rio Grande Valley UT San Antonio UT Tyler Health Institutions UT Southwestern UTMB Galveston UTHealth UT Health San Antonio UT MD Anderson UT System About SmartBook Office of the Chancellor Board of Regents Administration Offices Directory UT4U Outlook Web Access Info Center COVID-19 Site Policy Library Regents' Rules & Regulations Reports to the State Audit Reports Privacy Statement Linking Notice Copyright Accessibility Open Records Resources Careers Document Library seekUT UT System Dashboard Contact UT System State Links State of Texas Fraud Reporting Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Statewide Search University of Texas System New footer logo © 2022 The University of Texas System. 210 West 7th Street, Austin, Texas 78701-2982. (512) 499-4200 The University of Texas System Menu × Primary Mobile Navigation News Institutions Regents Administration Offices