Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Applied Statistics Combinatorics Computational Analysis Differential Equations Ergodic Theory Functional Analysis Math Education Current Grants Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Research Ergodic Theory Ergodic Theory Ergodic theory at the University of Memphis The first ergodic theorist arrived in our department in 1984. Today, we have an internationally known group of faculty involved in a diverse cross-section of research in ergodic theory (listed below), with collaborators from around the world. Members of our group have been the recipients of NSF research grants, have organized conferences and special programs both locally, nationally, and internationally, and have mentored several graduate students at both the Masters and Ph.D. levels. History Ergodic Theory may be generally defined as the study of the average behavior of systems that change with time. Its origins lie in statistical mechanics, which was developed by Boltzmann towards the end of the nineteenth century. Statistical mechanics aims to describe the collective behavior of a large number of moving particles. Mechanics is not usable for such a system since it would require to solve trillions and trillions of differential equations. Boltzmann revolutionary idea was to use statistical methods. Since Boltzmann's work, statistical mechanics has become one of the pillars of physics. In fact, quantum theory, one of the two revolutions of twentieth century physics, was invented to solve a problem in statistical mechanics. Ergodic theory was developed to try to justify the basic assumption of Boltzmann, the so called ergodic hypothesis. While it's a relatively young subject, ergodic theory is quite developed. A crucial feature of ergodic theory is its viewpoint it lends to seemingly unrelated mathematical problems. Ergodic theory has found applications in many parts of mathematics: number theory, harmonic analysis, dynamical systems, probability, mathematical physics. Correspondingly, many recent important developments in mathematics were solved using tools from ergodic theory. The importance of ergodic theory in today's mathematics is signified by the fact that some of the greatest prizes in mathematics (Fields medal, Wolf prize, Abel prize) were given out for work related to ergodic theory. Weekly Seminars The groups holds weekly research seminars with presentations from faculty and graduate students. The aim is to introduce graduate students to active research areas and guide them to a dissertation topic. Seminars can be found on the News & Events page. Recommended Courses In order to carry out research in Ergodic theory, foundational courses need to be mastered as well as core areas. Foundational Courses Math 7350 - Real Variables I Math 7351 - Real Variables II Math 7261 - Algebraic Theory I Math 7361 - Complex Analysis (if interested in complex dynamics) Math 7411 - Point Set Topology (Recommended but not truly necessary) Subject-related Courses Math 6083 - Dynamical Systems/Chaos Math 7352 - Ergodic Theory Math 7311 - Topics in Analysis Additional Useful Courses Math 7016 - Fourier Analysis Math 7/8355 - Functional Analysis I Math 7/8356 - Functional analysis Math 7613 - Probability Theory For more information on course descriptions, see the graduate catalog. Members Below are research interests and two representative or recent publications from each member. Also included for each member is a list of research interests and personal statement. James T. Campbell, Professor; Undergraduate Coordinator Research Interests: Ergodic theory, complex dynamics Personal Statement: The original attraction of ergodic theory for me was the interplay between harmonic analysis and ergodic theory, in particular questions relating the spectral theory of operators to ergodic theorems; almost everywhere convergence; and oscillation inequalities. Recently, working with recently-graduated Ph. D. student Jared Collins I became interested and continue to work in complex dynamics; and in collaboration with Randall McCutcheon, recurrence and ergodic Ramsey Theory. Campbell, James T. and Collins, Jared T. (2013) Specifying attracting cycles for Newton maps of polynomials. Journal of Difference Equations and Applications, 19(8). 1361-1379. Campbell, James T., Jones, Roger L., Reinhold, Karin, and Wierdl, Máté. (2000). Oscillation and variation for the Hilbert transform. Duke Math. J., 105(1). 59-83. Randall McCutcheon, Professor Research Interests: Ergodic ramsey theory Personal Statement:I held visiting positions at Case Western, Wesleyan and Maryland (College Park) before coming to Memphis in 2001. My mathematical research falls broadly into the areas of ergodic theory, especially recurrence (with applications to density Ramsey theory), and topological dynamics, especially the algebra of the Stone-Cech compactification of a semigroup (with applications to chromatic Ramsey theory). More recently, I have ventured into the philosophy of probability. D sets and IP rich sets in Z. Fund. Math. 233 (2016), 71-82. (With Jee Zhou). In favor of logarithmic scoring. Philos. Sci. 86 (2019), 286–303. Regression to the Mean and Judy Benjamin. Forthcoming in Synthese. Máté Wierdl, Professor Research Interests: Ergodic theory, almost everywhere convergence Personal Statement: I am interested in basic convergence problems, subsequence ergodic theorems, recurrence, combinatorial and analytic number theoretical connections, fourier analytic connections, applications. I have been also working in physics on the foundations of thermodynamics. I held visiting positions at Ohio State University, Indiana University, Bloomington, University of Maryland, Northwestern University, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Mathematical Sciences Research Institute, Berkeley, Tours, France. Chan, T. H., Kumchev, A. V., and Wierdl, M. (2010). Additive bases arising from functions in a Hardy field. Acta Math. Hungar., 129(3) 263-276. Jones, Roger L., Kaufman, Robert, Rosenblatt, Joseph M., and Wierdl, Máté. (1998). Oscillation in ergodic theory. Ergodic Theory Dynam. Systems, 18(4). 889-935. Alistair Windsor, Associate Professor; Director, Institute for Intelligent Systems Research Interests: Dynamical systems and ergodic theory Personal Statement: Prior to coming to the University of Memphis I held positions at the University of Manchester, Manchester, England, and the University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas. My early work was in constructing smooth systems, such as might appear in a physical system, with specified ergodic properties. worked more generally in the area of smooth dynamical systems including some work on integral equations, dynamical cohomology, and some applications to tiling theory. Since coming to Memphis I have made some forays into combinatorial ergodic theory. de la Llave, Rafael and Windsor, Alistair. (2011). Smooth dependence on parameters of solutions to cohomology equations over Anosov systems with applications to cohomology equations on diffeomorphism groups. Discrete Contin. Dyn. Syst., 29(3). 1141-1154. Fayad, B. R., Saprykina, M., and Windsor, A. (2007). Non-standard smooth realizations of Liouville rotations. Ergodic Theory Dynam. Systems 27 (6). 1803-1818. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/15/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.