Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Technology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Technology Major Apply Request More Info Music Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Music Technology Study contemporary recording arts, digital audio, and scoring for film and video games with the Bachelor of Science (BS) in Music Technology in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This 124-credit undergraduate degree is ideal for those students who are interested in all aspects of audio and sound recording, scoring, sound synthesis, and more. The Music Technology BS prepares students for the music industry’s many fields, including film, live events, music, television and video games. As a Music Technology major, you'll gain a solid foundation in all aspects of music technology, which include scoring for games, multimedia projects, sound recording and editing, analog and digital sound synthesis. Technology courses investigate the fundamentals of analog and modular synthesizers; musical applications; scoring for digital media, film and video games; and recording and editing. Later in your studies, you’ll be able to focus on your particular interests and specialize your degree within the discipline. Elective courses in many areas of study allow you to further explore your interests. The Music Studies Department is small, and faculty members mentor and guide you throughout your time in the Music Technology BS program and with career opportunities after graduation. See our suggested academic plan for the Music Technology Major program. Collaborate on your creative projects solo or with fellow classmates in Temple’s state-of the-art facilities, including fully equipped music recording, editing and mixing rooms, all with surround sound. Learn more about the university’s audio and recording facilities. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music technology faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music technology degree programs. Classes & Curriculum In this academic degree program, some of your courses will include Analog and Modular Sound Synthesis; Orchestration; Scoring for Film and Digital Media; Scoring and Audio Design for Video Games; and Sound Recording. Learn more about required and elective courses for the Music Technology Major. Related Graduate Degrees Music History MM Music Technology MS Music Theory MM Concentrations You can focus on Music Technology or you can take one of the following concentrations. Interdisciplinary Studies Enhance your ability to use technology for creative expression through specialized coursework within the music technology field. Learn foundational pedagogical concepts of computer programming and computation thinking, all within a musical context. Gain familiarity with concepts of sound and image synthesis and an enhanced awareness of the acoustical bases of music. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Edward Latham is the chair of the Music Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8498 Email: edward.latham@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUTE-BS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Technology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info