COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Health Professions Section Menu College of Health Professions Home About the College of Health Professions Programs and Departments For Students Patient-Serving Clinics Interprofessional Education For Faculty and Staff College Employment Dean's Office Directory Contact Offices Stop Video Wichita State's College of Health Professions combines quality, accredited degrees with unparalleled access to applied learning in Kansas' health care hub. Contact us Apply now CHP Virtual Photo Album Innovative education that leads to high-demand career opportunities From exclusive programs and the latest technology to virtually limitless access to industry experts, hands-on experience and jobs—your high-paying, high-demand career in health care starts here. Our exceptional industry partnerships give you many opportunities to make connections and work beside some of the best professionals in their fields through clinical rotations and community outreach. Learn more about applied learning at WSU A comprehensive health care education As a Wichita State health professions student, you’ll have access to the widest range of quality, accredited degree programs—some not found anywhere else in Kansas. See Health Professions degrees Advising The CHP Academic Advising Office provides a personalized pathway to navigate your educational experience. CHP Advisors will also help you choose a path to reach your career goals. Wichita State Scholarships and Financial Aid The College of Health Professions awards more than 90 CHP scholarships and fellowships each year. In addition, CHP students have access to general scholarships—including freshmen merit scholarships and other forms of financial aid. CHP Departments From patient serving clinics to cutting edge facilities and laboratories, the College of Health Professions can launch your career in the health care industry. Our Departments Advanced Education in General Dentistry Communication Sciences and Disorders Dental Hygiene Medical Laboratory Sciences Physical Therapy Physician Assistant Public Health Sciences School of Nursing Start your journey now. Apply to WSU Request WSU info Visit WSU Changing lives through community service The College of Health Professions is committed to improving the health of our communities. As a CHP student, you'll gain experience while providing health care services to underserved populations throughout your academic career. WSU features three patient-serving clinics and conducts outreach activities year-round like health fairs and screenings. See our patient-serving clinics Follow Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn CHP in the news All WSU News High-tech simulation manikins revolutionize audiology education The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders has received a gift to create the Audiology Simulation Lab at Wichita State. The lab contains five state-of-the-art Canadian Audiology simulator for Research and Learning (CARL) manikins and auxiliary equipment. Medical Laboratory Sciences faculty plays integral role in Molecular Diagnostics Lab Sarah Nickel, Medical Laboratory Sciences faculty member and Technical Director of WSU's Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory (MDL), talks about the set-up and function of the MDL. The lab is a high-volume COVID-19 testing facility and has the potential to widen the scope of future medical research at Wichita State. WSU launches satellite nursing program at K-State WSU and K-State will launch a dual-degree program that will give students the opportunity to earn both a Bachelor of Science from the College of Health and Human Sciences at K-State and a Bachelor of Science in nursing from the College of Health Professions at WSU. This is the first and only program of its kind in Kansas. More about the College of Health Professions Student resources History and mission Information sessions 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©