Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information About the UWAA Home Alumni About the UWAA About the UWAA Close Menu Home About the UWAA UWAA history Contact info & location Board of Trustees GOLD Alumni Council Awards ASLD DAVA DSA DTLA GGDAA FAQs Affinity Partnership Opt-Out Registration FAQs Founded in 1889, the UW Alumni Association has been the foundation of the UW alumni community for more than 125 years. UWAA’s mission is to support the University of Washington and higher education in the state of Washington. In pursuit of that mission, UWAA member dues fund programs and services to help students, inform the public about the UW community’s remarkable achievements and bring UW alumni and the public together for learning, fun and advocacy. With more than 56,000 members, UWAA is one of the largest alumni organizations in the United States. Everyone who supports the UW is invited to become a member. The UW Alumni Association is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion, and to advancing understanding and actions that are actively anti-racist. The UWAA’s mission to advance higher education and support the UW is grounded in the premise that an organized community of nearly 500,000 graduates is a force for extraordinary change. Our objective is to lead substantive change within our membership and the broad alumni community, to engage marginalized alums and amplify Black, Indigenous and people of color (BIPOC) voices. Read our commitment to advancing inclusivity and anti-racism or visit the UWAA Race, Equity and Justice Resource Center. In this section, you can learn about: How to get in touch The storied history of the Alumni Association How the UWAA celebrates accomplished alumni The committed individuals who make up the UWAA Board of Trustees Home About the UWAA UWAA history Contact info & location Board of Trustees GOLD Alumni Council Awards ASLD DAVA DSA DTLA GGDAA FAQs Affinity Partnership Opt-Out Registration FAQs UWAA Leadership recruitment Seeking an inclusive, collaborative and empathetic leader to serve in a strategic leadership role. UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA