Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Global Regional Activities Regional Activities Africa Asia-Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia About Faculty & Research MBA Experience Executive Education Alumni …→ Harvard Business School→ Global→ About About Africa Asia Pacific California Europe Japan Latin America Mid-US Middle East & North Africa South Asia Fast Facts → Africa Africa Johannesburg, Lagos HBS continues its efforts to build a deep understanding of and expertise in global business practice and innovation around the world, including throughout Africa, a region that is assuming an increasingly vital role in the world economy. The school opened the Africa Research Center in Johannesburg, South Africa in 2017 followed by an office in Lagos, Nigeria in 2019. This center plays an important role in helping HBS develop and strengthen relationships with business and academic leaders across sub-Saharan Africa, while our Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Research Center based in Istanbul, plays this same role for North African countries. Support for HBS engagement and activities across the school are enabled by these locations. The School strives to deepen faculty's understanding of and exposure to African management issues, trends, and practices, as well as develop locally relevant case studies and course materials for use in business education programs around the world. The Africa Research Center also supports alumni engagement, webinars and faculty case discussions, executive education, and admissions and outreach activities on the continent. Locations 1st Floor Block C, Rosebank Office Park 181 Jan Smuts Avenue, Parktown North Johannesburg, South Africa Lagos, Nigeria News & Highlights January 2022 Creating Emerging Markets Interview with first Nigerian Minister of Communication Technology In her interview with the Creating Emerging Markets project, Dr. Omobola Johnson discusses her early upbringing and education, her consulting career at Arthur Anderson, her takeaways from her tenure as the first Nigerian Minister of Communication Technology under the presidency of Goodluck Jonathan, her experience in venture capital at TLCom Capital, and her role as the co-founder of WimBiz, a non-profit dedicated to empowering women. December 2021 Alumni Tipping Point: A coffee company that enables consumers to send gratuities to its growers At one end of the global coffee supply chain are the diners who gather for brunch at the sidewalk tables outside Chloe’s Cafe in San Francisco’s Noe Valley neighborhood. Regulars there order the fluffy banana-walnut pancakes and steaming hot cups of Kahawa 1893 coffee. At the other end of the supply chain are the unseen farm laborers—most of them women—who tend the coffee trees each day on the hillsides of rural Kenya. Margaret Nyamumbo (MBA 2016) founded Kahawa 1893 in 2017 to shorten the distance between these Kenyan farmers and American coffee drinkers and to invest in the women who make the industry run. DECEMBER 2021 EVENT Case Discussion with Professor Anywhere Sikochi: Harambe In December, the Africa Research Center hosted a virtual case discussion with Professor Anywhere (Siko) Sikochi on Harambe, a non-profit organization whose mission is to build an ecosystem to identify promising young African entrepreneurs and provide them access to training, markets, capital, and support networks. From 2007 to 2021, Harambe has grown to a network of 367 entrepreneurs, known as “Harambeans.” They have collectively raised over $800 million in capital, created more than 3,500 jobs, and claimed three of the six African startup unicorns in 2021. There is mounting pressure for Harambe to evolve to take advantage of its momentum, the changing entrepreneurship landscape in Africa, and increasing investor interest. Given this, Okendo Lewis-Gayle, founder and chairman of the organization, has been pondering the next steps for Harambe to maximize its impact in Africa. September 2021 EVENT Case Discussion with Professor Shikhar Ghosh: Twiga Foods This September the Africa Research Center hosted a virtual case discussion with Professor Shikhar Ghosh on Twiga Foods, a leading agricultural produce supplier in Kenya offering services to mostly informal retailers. Under Peter Njonjo, a co-founder and Twiga’s new CEO, the company is considering multiple options for expanding its business, including offering packaged foods and services like insurance. Njonjo must also decide the ideal team and organizational structure for supporting Twiga’s growth plans. Watch the Video New Research on the Region May 2022 Case Rawbank's Illico Cash: Can 'Fast Money' Overcome Cash Dependency in the DRC? By: Lauren Cohen and Grace Headinger Thomas de Dreux-Brézé, the Head of Strategy and Project Management at Rawbank Congo in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), was perplexed as he reviewed annual adoption rates for the bank’s launch of Illico Cash 2.0. As the bank’s mobile money app, Illico Cash literally promised “Fast Cash” for its users who also had a Rawbank account. Unlike most mobile money platforms on the African continent, Illico cash was backed by an established bank — not a technology or a telecommunications company. As he contemplated Rawbank’s next strategic move, the future of Illico Cash, and the bank’s future moves into digital payment systems in the DRC, he saw multiple challenges to Illico Cash’s adoption in several regions across the DRC. Seeing lower-than-anticipated usage rates, he wondered if local preferences for cash seemed just too powerful to overcome. Can the bank’s digital payments efforts overcome hurdles in local infrastructure, entrenched interests that favored cash, and currency instability? Would crafting a digital ecosystem be a worthwhile investment for Rawbank without a wholesale structural shift in beliefs? April 2022 Teaching Material Tempur Sealy International (A, B & C) By: Benjamin C. Esty and Daniel Fisher Teaching Note for HBS Case Nos. 718-422, 718-423, and 718-424. The cases explore the long-term relationship between Tempur Sealy (TPX, a mattress manufacturer) and Mattress Firm (MFRM, a bedding retailer and TPX's largest customer). For almost 20 years, the firms enjoyed a mutually beneficial and commercially prosperous relationship. Yet in August 2016, Steinhoff (a large, South African retailer) made an offer to acquire MFRM. Whether this acquisition will affect the symbiotic relationship that had existed between TPX and MFRM was the subject of intense speculation. While some industry observers believed it would increase MFRM's bargaining power vis-à-vis TPX, others argued it would not alter the balance of power, and that the incentives to collaborate would remain intact. March 2022 Case Swvl: Smart Mobility for the Masses By: Krishna Palepu, Esel Çekin and Menna Hassan The case focuses on strategy and governance issues at SWVL, a tech-enabled mass mobility marketplace. It describes the journey of CEO and Chairman Mostafa Kendil on his journey from founding to the company’s listing on Nasdaq. Since its founding in Egypt in 2017, Swvl produced a series of great successes with its innovative solution that promised safe, reliable, and affordable mass commuting trips in markets where such a service was unavailable. In a short time, Swvl was able to raise notable amounts in MENA (Middle East and North Africa) investor funds, expand geographically to neighboring and faraway markets, and become the fastest growing unicorn in the region. Expanding the company’s existing regional footprint, Kandil and his team were pursuing their ambition to become the world’s number one mass mobility provider. They worked with Queen's Gambit, a SPAC (Special Purpose Acquisition Company), to take the company public on Nasdaq. They established both statutory and advisory boards that would not only guide the company on its growth plans but also showcase its strong compliance agenda—a priority from the outset. Once listed, Swvl would become the second and the youngest MENA-based company to ever go public on Nasdaq. With this, Swvl accepted a challenging responsibility: it would have to position itself among well-established U.S. public companies on one hand and overcome the notorious reputation MENA-based companies had for corporate governance on the other. To emerge successful in global financial markets, Swvl had to ensure that its marketplace design was lean enough to allow the company to grow profitably without compromising customer experience on its rides. Swvl also had to assess its expansion strategy, particularly in terms of how fast and how far it could launch in new markets without mishap. Moreover, it had to make sure the company had the right advisory and accountability governance structures that would effectively guide the company on growth, expansion, service delivery, and putting customer safety at the top of the list for all decisions it took. See more research Johannesburg Staff Pippa Tubman Armerding Executive Director → Biography Pippa Tubman Armerding Executive Director Pippa Tubman Armerding joined Harvard Business School in 2017 as Executive Director for the HBS Africa Research Center, opened this year in Johannesburg, South Africa. Pippa’s work spans sub-Saharan Africa, with a particular focus on the development of cases and support for faculty research in the region. She also plays an important role in establishing and fostering relationships with companies and alumni in Africa on behalf of HBS. A lawyer and strategist with 20 years of experience as an attorney and business professional operating across Africa, Europe and North America, Pippa has held a number of leadership roles with large multinationals working across the continent. Prior positions includes serving as Director of Legal and Corporate Affairs for Microsoft South Africa, and Director of Pan-African Strategic Initiatives for Coca-Cola South Africa. As a graduate of Harvard College, Pippa has been an active alumnus, serving in a number of volunteer roles for the alumni community in South Africa. In addition, Pippa holds a JD from New York University, specializing in international law, and is fluent in French. Raised in Liberia, Pippa returned to Africa 13 years ago and has since lived in South Africa and Kenya. Contact Informationparmerding@hbs.edu Tafadzwa Choruma Administrative, Research and Program Assistant Lagos Staff Wale Lawal Senior Researcher ǁ Global Initiative Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 Email: global@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College