Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Management MIM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Management MIM Apply Events Request More Info Management MIM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master in Management Gain the business acumen needed for success in the global job market with the Master in Management (MiM) in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. This 30-credit master’s degree program is designed for students from non-business backgrounds who seek to supplement their undergraduate degrees with essential business skills. Students will develop their knowledge of and gain experience in accounting, administration, data analysis, finance, information technology and people management, with a strategic approach to business. The MiM degree increases career marketability as students learn to apply effective communication techniques to business situations; understand the ethical and social responsibilities of individuals and organizations; use data to analyze business situations; and utilize financial and accounting principles to aid managerial decision-making. Building from the strong critical thinking and analytical skills developed during undergraduate studies, the MiM enhances graduates' appeal to employers seeking a diverse range of expertise. Additionally, Fox provides opportunities to help secure full-time employment through the Center for Student Professional Development, which works to connect graduates with corporate partners in Philadelphia and beyond. Classes & Curriculum The 30-credit MiM includes new coursework specific to this master’s degree taught over three semesters of full-time study. Classes are held on Temple’s Main Campus. Courses include the following. Business Fundamentals I Business Fundamentals II Business Intelligence and Data Visualization Financial Reporting and Analysis Marketing Management Managing People Organizational Strategy Principles of Accounting Students end their program by completing either a project-based Capstone Experience: Internship or a Capstone Project course that entails working with actual clients or industry experts to solve real-world problems. Learn more about course requirements. Fox Faculty A diverse faculty brings extensive professional knowledge to the MiM program, with some professors holding more than 25 years of experience in business development, financial reporting and marketing management. Learn more about faculty and staff at Fox. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master in Management offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Jenn Houder is the associate director of graduate admissions. Phone: 215-204-3315 Email: jennifer.houder@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-MAN-MIM Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Management MIM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info