Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> News >> FSU Libraries COVID-19 Updates and Resources FSU Libraries COVID-19 Updates and Resources Monday, August 9, 2021 Welcome to FSU Libraries! Here are our expectations to promote safe and healthy spaces: We expect everyone to wear a face covering or mask at all times when inside any FSU Libraries building, even if you are vaccinated. We expect you to stay home when sick, self-quarantine and get tested for COVID-19 no sooner than 24 hours after your symptoms begin. Maintain social distancing of at least three feet (six feet recommended). Clean study areas before and after use. Cleaning supplies are located throughout the building. Wash hands frequently for at least 20 seconds with soap and water. Properly dispose of any wipes or cleaning supplies after cleaning and disinfection. For the latest updates for Florida State University, visit COVID-19 Announcements. If you have questions about vaccines, testing, and/or contact tracing, visit Stay Healthy FSU. Operations Updates FSU Libraries have resumed normal operations. For a listing of current hours, please visit our Library Hours page. Collections and Borrowing Our physical library collections are open for browsing and circulation and our extensive online resources are available both on- and off-campus. Learn more about our collections and borrowing at the following links: Off Campus Access Curbside and In-library Pick-up Special Collections & Archives COVID-19 Resources Materials & Borrowing Course Reserves Library Services FSU Libraries offers diverse services to support the teaching, learning, and research needs of the university community through in-person and online assistance and programs. Learn more at the following links: Ask A Librarian Subject Librarians Study Rooms Tutoring Event Calendar Florida State University Alerts For more FSU news regarding closures and announcements visit FSU Alerts. About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!