Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Mathematics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Mathematics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Applied Mathematics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics Develop the mathematical techniques needed to solve complex problems with the Bachelor of Science in Applied Mathematics in Temple's College of Science and Technology. There is a growing demand in the job market for employees who can use mathematical and computational methods to strategize and problem solve. Career opportunities for an Applied Mathematics Major include positions in computer animation, data mining and privacy, material science, and systems biology. Applied mathematics, by definition, is designed to be applied to real-world problems. From decreasing carbon emissions to increasing cybersecurity, applied mathematics is being used more than ever in emerging technology. Therefore, this degree program emphasizes a thorough understanding of the mathematics in order to affect real-world situations. In the 123-credit-hour program, you’ll gain exposure to the different ways mathematical applications can configure real-life scenarios. Over four years, you’ll learn mathematical tools and computations as pertain to science and engineering by studying how to manipulate abstract objects and ideas, translate real-life data into mathematical language, and understand fundamental concepts of real and complex analysis. Classes & Curriculum In this program, you’ll take courses in computer and information science, mathematics, and physics. Out of the 66- to 67-credit-major requirement, 18 credit hours will be allocated to calculus classes. Some of your classes will include Complex Analysis, Differential Equations with Computer Lab, Numerical Analysis and Probability Theory I. Learn more about Applied Mathematics BS courses. Related Graduate Degrees Actuarial Science MS * Bioinnovation PSM Biotechnology PSM Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Civil Engineering PhD ** *Fox School of Business ** College of Engineering Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Scientific Writing +1 Bachelor-Master Programs The College of Science and Technology offers +1 Accelerated Bachelor-Master Programs. Students can earn a BA or BS and, at the end of the fifth year, an MA or MS. Coursework is completed over five years instead of taking the usual six-year course of study. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s +1 Bachelor-Master programs. Dual Bachelor-Master Program for International Students International students have the opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from their home institution and a graduate degree from Temple over five years. This multidisciplinary program includes undergraduate- and graduate-level coursework at Temple. Students are prepared for professional careers in today’s global economy and job market. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Dual Bachelor-Master Program for international students. 3+4 Accelerated Programs The College of Science and Technology offers 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs in a seven-year course of study, instead of the usual eight years. Qualifying undergraduate students can obtain the Applied Mathematics Major from CST and a Doctor of Medicine in Dentistry from the Kornberg School of Dentistry, Doctor of Podiatric Medicine from the School of Podiatric Medicine, Doctor of Medicine from the Lewis Katz School of Medicine, or Doctor of Pharmacy Medicine from the School of Pharmacy. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s 3+4 Accelerated Degree Programs. 3+3 Accelerated Program Qualified students can earn the Applied Mathematics Major and a Doctor of Physical Therapy from the College of Public Health over a five-year course of study, instead of taking the usual six years. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology's 3+3 Accelerated Degree Program. Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program The College of Science and Technology Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program is designed for students planning to apply to medical school or pursue other health-related professions. The program offers the following two tracks. The Basic Core in Health Sciences is intended for professionals who need the required science courses to apply to medical school. The Advanced Core in Health Sciences is a program for current students who have met the premedical requirements and who seek advanced science coursework. Both tracks include classes in the Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Science and Technology. Learn more about the College of Science and Technology’s Post-Baccalaureate Pre-Health Program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Maria E. Lorenz, director of undergraduate studies and professor in the Department of Mathematics, is the faculty program coordinator for the Applied Mathematics Major. Phone: 215-204-7852 Email: mathadvising@temple.edu Student Clubs and Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 pre-health clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a Applied Mathematics Major degree may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Association for Women in Mathematics - Temple University Chapter promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Math Club is a community of students and College of Science and Technology faculty that promotes mathematics through social activities and discussions. The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics is a professional society for students interested in applied, computational or industrial mathematics. Members attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-APMA-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Mathematics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarship & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info