Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display. Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Hallmarks As one of the country's leading Catholic universities, Seton Hall has been developing students in mind, heart and spirit since 1856. Home to nearly 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students, Seton Hall is a placed that nurtures compassionate leaders who are prepared to make a difference in the world. A Triumphant Spirit As one of the nation's leading Catholic universities, we live the legacy of Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton every day, defining what it means to be a great mind and a pioneering force for good by educating compassionate and informed critical-thinkers who will leave their mark and make a difference in the world. Founded in 1856 6,200 Undergrads Career Advantage Lots of schools promise meaningful internships and career preparation. Seton Hall delivers. Freshman year, we'll pair you with a dedicated career counselor and connect you with our network of successful alumni. Seton Hall's stellar reputation will open doors. Employers know that when they hire a Seton Hall student, they're getting the best. 95% Overall Employment Rate 17,000 Internship Opportunities Great Mentors Great minds require great mentors. You'll find them here. At Seton Hall, collaborative, supportive relationships with faculty await you. In our small classroom settings, you'll find both challenge and support. But what really sets us apart is the access you'll have. You can start conducting research, attending conferences with professors or contributing to faculty projects. 14-1 Student-Teacher Ratio In the Company of Great Minds We've got it all: faculty and students Fulbright and Rhodes scholars, research grants from NASA, alumni CEOs and highly ranked academic programs. At Seton Hall, you'll join a community of faculty and alumni who will pave the way for your success. 18% of NJ legislatures are Seton Hall Alumni 93% medical school acceptance rate A Great Start Seton Hall immerses you in real-world learning right from the start. As soon as you arrive on campus, you can begin blazing a path and building the skills that set you apart. Conducting brain cancer research alongside faculty Trading stocks on our mock trading room floor #1 College radio station in the nation - WSOU A Prime Location Lots of schools promise meaningful internships and career preparation. Seton Hall delivers. Freshman year, we'll pair you with a dedicated career counselor and connect you with our network of successful alumni. Seton Hall's stellar reputation will open doors. Employers know that when they hire a Seton Hall student, they're getting the best. 14 miles from New York City Pirate Pride At Seton Hall, you'll join an unmistakable culture of optimism. Our diverse and welcoming Catholic community is dedicated to developing you as a whole person. Our students feel at home and share a bond we call "Pirate Pride." We offer lots of opportunities to have fun, make friends and get involved. From dances to carnivals to high profile guest speakers and comedians - it's all here. 14 Big East Division I Sports 50% of our students participate in 25 club and intramural sports Affordability A Seton Hall education is more affordable than you think. We provide generous scholarships and grants to 98 percent of our students. Just as important, we are known for our value, having been rated as one of the Best Colleges for Your Money, noted as a school with the Highest Paid Graduates and named as as school with one of the Best Returns on Your Investment. 98% receive grants or scholarships $130 million awarded to students Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social