Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Multicultural Engagement Welcome to Multicultural Engagement The Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center provides a variety of programs designed to increase dialogue throughout the Clemson community. We aim to further develop the intercultural competencies of our students, faculty, and staff. Our programs are a platform to tell your story, listen to the stories of others, and form a more meaningful understanding of personal and social identity. In addition to introspection and cultural exploration, we encourage action. Alongside our educational programs, you will find many opportunities for involvement in advocacy and student organizations. Multicultural Center on Facebook Multicultural Center on Twitter Join Our Mailing List Our Programs GOODTalk The concept of community at a large institution like Clemson University can be a complex one. GOODTalk is meant to be a space to explore community, identity, and values by bringing together university graduate assistants, staff, and faculty. This 10 week dialogue series enables participants to build cross-campus relationships, learn from new stories and perspectives, and explore topics around inclusion, equity, and organizational change. GOODTalk participants will: - Gain KNOWLEDGE on current issues related to social identity and inclusion - Cultivate AWARENESS of social identities for themselves and others - Develop SKILLS necessary for working in diverse communities - Build capacity to take ACTION for positive change at Clemson and beyond Fall 2019 GOODTalk will run from the week of September 16th to the week of December 2nd (with the week of December 9th held in case a make-up is necessary). Applications are due by Monday, September 9th. Apply now! Applicants will be notified of their participation by no later than September 13th. Information for Spring 2020 GOODTalk will be posted in December! GOODTalk 2.0 Identity and inclusion are complex topics, and delving into them can offer new insights and deeper understanding. GOODTalk 2.0 is meant to be a space for those who have completed GOODTalk to explore a particular social identity in greater depth. This group of university graduate assistants, staff, and faculty will spend 10 weeks exploring one of three social identity areas: Race & Ethnicity; Gender & Sexuality; or Worldview, Religion, & Spirituality. This dialogue series will enable participants to build cross-campus relationships, learn from new stories and perspectives, and explore topics around inclusion, equity, and organizational change. While the focus will be on the selected social identities, intersectionality and systems of power, privilege, and marginalization at large will play a role. Spring 2019 GOODTalk 2.0 will run from the week of September 16th to the week of December 2nd (with the week of December 9th held in case a make-up is necessary). Applications are due by Monday, September 9th. If you have participated in GOODTalk, and would like to engage in the GOODTalk 2.0 experience, apply now! Applicants will be notified of their participation by no later than September 13th. Feel free to message Jacob Frankovich, Associate Director for Multicultural Engagement, at frankov@clemson.edu with any questions! Community Dialogues The personal and professional development of students is a cornerstone of the higher education process. The purpose of Community Dialogues is to help students develop in these areas by 1) promoting an understanding of Clemson University’s core values, 2) providing an opportunity for students to learn and practice skills that will help them better engage with other members of the Clemson Community; and 3) developing critical thinking skills. Students who participate in the Community Dialogues program will be able to: Identify important aspects of their personal backgrounds Articulate the value of understanding different perspectives Describe and demonstrate principles of positive social engagement in communication with others Understand how the core values of honesty, integrity and respect relate to being responsible members of the Clemson Community Students will accomplish this through completion of a 90 minute workshop during which they will engage with peers from diverse backgrounds, learn more about the use of dialogue as an effective method of communication, and practice those skills with their peers. Workshop activities will accentuate and strengthen students’ understanding of the core values and their implications for involvement with the Clemson community. Completion of a Community Dialogue workshop and the following online quiz are required to pass CU1000. CU1000 Community Dialogues is a core component of CU1000, a program designed to transition new students to life at Clemson. CU1000 is a series of modules scheduled throughout students' first semester. Students can find more information about CU1000 along with the online modules and registration pages for in-person sessions on Canvas. Peer Dialogue Facilitators The Peer Dialogue Facilitator (PDF) is a specialized paraprofessional position within the Gantt Multicultural Center. PDFs are a team of undergraduate students whose primary role is to support inclusion efforts at Clemson University. PDFs facilitate dialogue for Clemson students in an effort to develop essential communication, leadership, and critical thinking skills. Ultimately, these skills are crucial for being engaged citizens in diverse and inclusive communities. PDFs seek to foster understanding, compassion, awareness, and relationships among students from various social identities. Basic Qualifications & Prerequisites: - Enrollment as a full-time student during the 3 Academic semesters of involvement: Spring 2020, Fall 2021, and Spring 2021 - Enrollment and successful completion of a 3 semester Creative Inquiry: EDSA 2990, 3990, and 4990 - 2.0 GPA (Semester & Cumulative) - Conduct in Good Standing Compensation & Benefits: - The PDF will: * Receive a stipend for the Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 semesters * Gain significant leadership experience * Develop skills in facilitating dialogue, navigating triggers, inquiring critically, and mediating conflict * Create strong connections with Clemson University staff, faculty, and students * Make a lasting impact on the Clemson University community Learning Outcomes: - Students will gain KNOWLEDGE on current issues related to social identity and inclusion - Students will develop AWARENESS of social identities for themselves and others - Students will build SKILLS to work toward more inclusive communitiesStudents will take ACTION supporting a more inclusive community at Clemson and beyond Responsibilities & Expectations: - Attend required training and retreat experiences - Facilitate Community Dialogues, as required for all incoming students as a part of CU-1000 * Each PDF will facilitate two Community Dialogue sessions per week - Communicate in a timely fashion regarding position and course responsibilities - Support marketing efforts for and show visibility during Gantt Multicultural Center and other campus events related to identity, inclusion, and social justice - Facilitate dialogue related to current events, hot topics, and identity issues - Attend bi-weekly 1on1 meetings with the Associate Director and Graduate Assistant for Multicultural Engagement - Engage in special projects during Fall 2020 and Spring 2021, which could include: * Serving as a RA PDF * Facilitating Intergroup Dialogue courses * Participating on Gantt Multicultural Center committees and planning teams * Facilitating training sessions and workshops * Facilitating Campus Conversations on hot topics and current events * Exploring research opportunities related to identity, inclusion, and social justice at Clemson - Participating in performance evaluation processes - Engage in weekly class experiences through the PDF Creative Inquiry course Applications Apply here for the PDF position! Applications will be accepted now through Thursday, October 10th. Cohort 10 applications due on 10-10! If you have any questions about the PDF position or the application process please message Jacob Frankovich at frankov@clemson.edu. Intergroup Dialogues Are you interested in delving more into concepts of identity, inclusion, and social change? Consider being a part of an Intergroup Dialogue course in Spring 2020! Intergroup Dialogues are dialogic, participant-driven 3-credit courses structured to explore social identity, community, equity, and positive change. Students will build knowledge and awareness of identity and inclusion, while developing skills to create positive change in their communities. Facilitated by a small team of Peer Dialogue Facilitators, Intergroup Dialogues create learning opportunities with activities, self-reflection, and the exploration of current events and social issues. This course offering changes each semester based upon student interest. Intergroup Dialogues focus on identity groups, which could include Race & Ethnicity; Worldview, Religion, & Spirituality; or Gender & Sexuality. These dialogues strive to bring participants together across identity groups, while readings, narratives, and activities connect to those identities which may not be represented in the space. Why is there an application? Intergroup Dialogues are enhanced by diverse voices, so the inclusion of multiple identities and perspectives is beneficial. Additionally, having a sense of student interests helps the course coordinators balance participant numbers in various sections. Apply here for Intergroup Dialogues! Applications will be accepted now through Wednesday, October 30th. If you have any questions about Intergroup Dialogues or the application process please message Jacob Frankovich at frankov@clemson.edu. Values Summit thanks to all who helped make the 2nd Annual Clemson University Values Summit: Building the Clemson Family a success. Through interactive and educational presentations, small-group discussions and action-oriented brainstorming sessions, the Values Summit will engage members of the Clemson University community on various social justice concepts and their alignment with Clemson University’s core values of honesty, integrity and respect. See below for a schedule of the 2017 Values Summit. Please check back soon for more information regarding our 2018 event. Kicking off the summit will be our special guest and keynote speaker Dr. Mykee Fowlin, a psychologist, performer and poet. This event is $5 for registered Clemson students, and $10 for faculty, staff, and community members. The registration fee will include lunch. Space will be limited, so early registration is recommended.. Schedule of Events — March 11, 2017 Registration: 9:15–10:00 a.m., Watt Center Atrium Opening and Keynote: 10:00–11:30 a.m., Watt Center Auditorium Lunch and Networking: 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m., Watt Center Atrium Breakout Sessions: 1:30–2:30 p.m. and 2:30–3:30 p.m., Academic Success Center Closing: 3:40–4 p.m., Watt Center Auditorium Home About The Gantts Campus Climate MLK Celebration Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs Multicultural Engagement Multicultural Programs Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram