Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Department of Orthopaedics Fellowship Programs Shoulder and Elbow Fellowship Shoulder and Elbow Fellowship The Rhode Island Hospital Shoulder and Elbow Service at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University offers an advanced clinical and surgical experience which includes over 450 cases per year with a broad experience in arthroscopic, open and revision shoulder and elbow surgery. The Department of Orthopaedics is both a tertiary referral practice as well as serving the general orthopaedic needs of the local community. A level-one trauma center with an active orthopaedic trauma service, the Rhode Island Hospital offers a unique opportunity to manage a high volume of shoulder and elbow fractures. The Shoulder and Elbow service is also a tertiary referral center for total shoulder and elbow replacement for southern Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Rhode Island Hospital is the major teaching hospital of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Fellows are expected to participate in weekly didactic and indications conferences and play an active role in teaching residents and medical students. The orthopaedic residency program has six residents per year, and there is one PGY-4 resident rotating on the shoulder and elbow service. The usual schedule includes outpatient surgery on Mondays and Fridays, in patient surgery on Thursdays, and private office hours on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. In addition, the fellow runs and supervises the shoulder clinic at Rhode Island Hospital and also performs shoulder and elbow surgical procedures one day each month at the Providence VA Medical Center. There is an active research lab (Rhode Island Hospital Orthopaedic Foundation), an outstanding opportunity for both clinical and basic science (molecular biology and biomechanics) research projects. There are also extensive opportunities to carry out clinical outcomes research. The fellow is expected to complete at least one basic science and one clinical research project during their fellowship year. The fellow is also encouraged to assist in the preparation of manuscripts, book chapters, and journal articles. Conveniently located between Boston and New York City, Providence is a vibrant coastal city located on Narragansett Bay with great restaurants and cultural activities. Rhode Island is also home to Newport and some of the most beautiful beaches in New England. This program is an ASES recognized fellowship match. Faculty Andrew Green, MD Professor of Orthopaedics Director, Shoulder and Elbow Fellowship Andrew Green, MD is a fellowship trained specialist in problems of the shoulder, elbow and upper extremity. Dr. Green is the Chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery at Rhode Island Hospital and in the Department of Orthopaedics at The Alpert Medical School of Brown University as well as the Miriam Hospital Total Joint Center. Each year he evaluates more than 1,000 new patients and performs over 400 arthroscopic, reconstructive, joint replacement, and trauma surgeries for these problems. Most commonly, he treats patients for rotator cuff disorders, shoulder dislocations and instability, labral tears, arthritis, fractures and sports injuries. As a Professor of Orthopaedics and Chief of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery at Brown, he is actively involved in research and the education of future orthopaedic surgeons. He is the author of numerous articles and book chapters regarding the shoulder and elbow, and frequently presents and teaches at national and international meetings. He serves on a number of national orthopaedic committees. Dr. Green is Board Certified in Orthopaedic Surgery and Orthopaedic Sports Medicine, in addition to being a member of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, the Orthopaedic Trauma Association, New England Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons. He is a Deputy Editor for Upper Extremity for the Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery. E. Scott Paxton, MD Associate Professor of Orthopaedics Co-Director, Shoulder and Elbow Fellowship E. Scott Paxton, MD, is a member of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery and an Associate Professor of Orthopaedics in the Department of Orthopaedics at the Alpert Medical School of Brown University. He completed fellowship training in the treatment of problems of the shoulder and elbow at the prestigious Rothman Institute in Philadelphia, PA. Dr. Paxton graduated from Washington University in St. Louis School of Medicine and trained as a resident in orthopaedic surgery at Washington University in St. Louis. The typical problems that he evaluates and treats include rotator cuff tears and impingement, shoulder and elbow instability and dislocations, shoulder and elbow arthritis, shoulder fractures (humerus, glenoid, scapula, and clavicle), elbow fractures, malunions and nonunions of these fractures, tendon injuries of the shoulder and elbow, labral tears, throwing injuries and other sports injuries of the upper extremity. In addition to treating patients, he is actively involved in research and the education of present and future orthopaedic surgeons, including medical students, residents, and fellows at the Department of Orthopaedics at Brown. He is also actively involved in research related to shoulder and elbow disorders and has presented and published many papers regarding disorders of the shoulder and elbow. Learn more about Lifespan/Brown, Rhode Island, and what our former fellows have to say. Why Brown? The Ocean State Fellowship Introduction Pramote Malasitt, MD Nick Capito, MD Doug Scott, MD Havalee Henry, MD Daniel Bronsnick, MD David Tapscott, MD Current Fellow 2021-2022 Keiko Amano, MD University of Texas Medical Branch Year Past Fellow Current Position 2020-2021 David Tapscott, MD Southern Illinois University, Springfield, MO 2019-2020 Mohit Kukreja, MD Mumbai, India 2018-2019 Borja Santaella Santé, MD VA Caribbean Healthcare System, San Juan, Puerto Rico 2017-2018 Havalee Henry, MD The Orthopedic Institute, Ocala, FL 2016-2017 Pramote Malasitt, MD OrthoVirginia, Lynchburg, VA 2015-2016 Nick Capito, MD Augusta Orthopedic & Sports Medicine, Augusta, GA 2014-2015 Daniel Bronsnick, MD Rothman Orthopaedic Institute, Bensalem, PA 2013-2014 Michael H. Johnson, MD Twin City Orthopedics, Maple Grove, MN 2012-2013 Daniel DeBottis, MD Orthopaedic Specialty Institute, Orange County, CA 2011-2012 Doug Scott, MD Orthopedic Associates of the Lowcountry, Hilton Head, South Carolina 2010-2011 Lee Kaback, MD Northeast Orthopaedics, Albany, NY Program Goals The goals and objectives of the Rhode Island Hospital Shoulder and Elbow Service are to educate the fellows in all areas of shoulder and elbow care. This will be achieved through didactic sessions, literature review, oral presentations, patient examination, and surgical treatment. In addition, access to cadavers and the arthroscopy laboratory will further enhance the fellows’ understanding and technical skills during their respective rotations. The fellow will also have the opportunity to perform clinical and basic science research through the Rhode Island Hospital Orthopaedic Foundation Research Laboratories. Application Process Applications to the Shoulder and Elbow Fellowship will be through the SF Match/ASES Match. Details are provided on the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons website and SF Match website: http://www.ases-assn.org/ and www.sfmatch.org Interviews will be held virtually. Please refer to the San Francisco Match. Please address inquiries to: Audrey Bell Shoulder/Elbow Fellowship Coordinator 2 Dudley Street, Suite 200 Providence, RI 02905 Phone: 401-457-1567 Fax: 401-831-8637 Email: [email protected] Andrew Green, MD Email: [email protected]; [email protected] Home About Us News Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Adult Reconstruction Foot and Ankle Hand Pediatrics Shoulder Elbow Photos Spine Sports Medicine Trauma Research Laboratories Brown Medical Students MS4 Visiting Students Diversity and Inclusion Print this Page Share this Page The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Quick Links University Orthopaedics