Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Film & Digital Media About Us Faculty Staff Engaged Learning Baylor Arts Festivals Abroad Baylor in New York Deposit & Payment Information FAQ Non Film & Digital Media Majors Registration Black Glasses Film Festival Academics Film & Digital Media Scholarship Graduate Admissions Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships Undergraduate Apply Now Make a Gift Film and Digital Media Media-based storytelling is one of the most powerful forces in our lives, societies, and cultures. The Film & Digital Media Department is designed to provide students with a broad-based understanding of this field, enabling them to become ethical, articulate, creative, and innovative leaders in media production, media management, and media studies. Explore Programs/Events Baylor in LA Learn more about our brand new summer internship program in Los Angeles. Learn More Baylor in New York Apply now for our flagship program in America's cultural capital NYC. Learn More Black Glasses Film Festival Submit your work to our annual student film festival. Learn More Expanding the Color Universe Baylor Researchers Introduce 6P Color Imaging System that Could Revolutionize TV, Cinema Storytelling. Learn More Lindner Endowment for Film and Digital Media Baylor University Announces $2 Million Gift to Launch Baylor in Los Angeles Program. Learn More Partners Fine Arts Living and Learning Center Learn More Creative Arts Experience Learn More Baylor Arts Alliance Learn More Theatre Arts Theatre Arts News Read More Jan. 31, 2022 Silver Screens, Big Screens and Small Screens The movie-watching experience continues to evolve. And while directors wish all people could experience their movies on the silver screens in theaters, they know most people these days will be watching on the big screens in their living rooms or on the small screens in their hands. Read More Jan. 31, 2022 Baylor University Earns Prestigious Research 1 Status Baylor University has been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, joining the nation’s top-tier research institutions as a doctoral university with very high research activity and elevating Baylor as a preeminent Christian research university. Read More Jan. 24, 2022 Baylor Connections Highlights FDM Corey Carbonara and Michael Korpi are developing a system that could revolutionize color display on high-definition screens. 6P has drawn the attention of NASA, the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers and a variety of media organizations. Read More Dec. 14, 2021 Lights, Camera, Baylor Gaffer. Key grip. Foley artist. Nonsensical words for most people. But sharp-eyed readers and film and TV industry buffs know they are all critical jobs on a Hollywood film set. How to land one of those coveted roles in the competitive, closed-off world of Hollywood movie-making, however, is often less clear. Read More Film & Digital Media Castellaw Communications 131 One Bear Place #97321 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-1511 About Us Back Faculty Staff Engaged Learning Back Baylor Arts Festivals Abroad Baylor in New York Back Deposit & Payment Information FAQ Non Film & Digital Media Majors Registration Black Glasses Film Festival Academics Back Film & Digital Media Scholarship Graduate Back Admissions Degree Paths and Coursework Funding and Assistantships Undergraduate Apply Now Make a Gift General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678