COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert COVID-19 Testing and Vaccinations Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. For registration and eligibility for testing visit our COVID-19 Testing page. For registration, eligibility and locations for vaccines visit our COVID-19 Vaccinations page. Upcoming Events Section Menu Student Health Services Home After Hour Care / Medical Emergencies About Us COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Vaccinations Events Forms Health Insurance Medications Meningitis Office Hours Policies Services Travel and Health Advisories Tuberculosis Uploading Health Documents Vaccination Information Vaccination Videos Wellness Resources Healthy Happenings We just finished a free STI screening day with great success! If you missed this one don't worry because there will be more in the future. Call SHS with any questions. Student Health opens new portal for students The new myShockerHealth student portal is now open. Students can log on with their myWSU ID and password. myShockerHealth is a secure portal for communicating with Student Health Services. Through myShockerHealth you can make appointments, request prescription refills, send a message to a health professional, view balances and more. Taking care of your health has never been easier. 2019-2020 Health Insurance Information Looking for affordable health insurance? Not sure what health insurance options you have? Check out our health insurance information pages for more information. » Learn more information about Domestic Student Health Insurance » Learn more information about International Student Health Insurance Have you taken your TB Survey? Are you new to WSU this semester? After you enroll in classes, log into your myWSU account and click the link to the TB survey located at the bottom left of the window. Please complete this survey to prevent holds on your account. If you are having difficulties, call 316-978-4792 or stop by our clinic at the Student Wellness Center in the Steve Clark YMCA. » Learn more about the Tuberculosis prevention plan Websites for health information You can't believe everything you see on the Internet and this is especially true when it comes to health information. However, not all health information on the Internet is bad. You just have to follow a couple few simple rules to ensure you are getting accurate information. Rule #1: Don't “Google” or “Wikipedia” your symptoms and read every result. Some of the information may not come from medical professionals or be reliable. Rule #2: When looking for medical information online, use websites sponsored by the government, medical schools, major research centers and national organizations. Here is a list of websites that would be good sources for health information: Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Health Information Center Medline Plus National Women’s Health Information Center (NWHIC) The Mayo Clinic National Cancer Institute M.D. Anderson Cancer Institute American Cancer Society American Diabetes Association American Heart Association Plan B available now Student Health Services now offers Plan B Emergency Contraceptive. No appointment is necessary. Please call 316-978-4792 for more information. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©