Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Classics About the banner image Department of Classics Contact Us Facebook Classics.Department@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Back to Top Nav Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Back to Top Nav Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Back to Top Nav Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Thesis and Prize Event Reed 107 Please join the Department of Classics on Thursday, May 26, for the presentation of three Senior Honors Projects and for the recognition of the 2022 prize recipients. The event will take place in person, in Reed 107, from 2:30-4:30 p.m., with a reception to follow in Reed 311. Fulbright and DAAD Grant Recipients Announced The 13 award winners will teach, study, or conduct research around the globe. Classics Department Annual Benefactors' Lecture Helene Foley, Claire Tow Professor of Classics at Columbia University, was the Benefactors' speaker this year and spoke about the Athenian old comic poet Aristophanes engages with the tragic poet Euripides in three comedies, Acharnians, Peace, and Women at the Thesmophoria. The lecture was May 12, 2022. Coins in the Museum RANDALL KUHLMAN, Center for Object Study Attendant and Scheduling Assistant Classics Students Meet a Consular General of Greece Members of the Classics and Art History departments recently had the opportunity to meet with Stratos Efthymiou, who is the Consul General of Greece in Boston, when he visited the Dartmouth Campus on February 18. Gus Guszkowski '22 participates in 'Jeopardy! The classics major sat down with The Dartmouth to discuss their path to the 'Jeopardy!' quarterfinals. Congratulations! Welcome Peter Martin to the Classics Department! The department welcomes Peter Martin, who will be joining us for Spring term while Professor Christesen is on leave. He will be teaching two courses: CLST 11.13 and CLST 14. Khameleon Productions' The Uprooting Medea Tour Khameleon Productions will be visited our campus March 3rd-5th, 2022. Mastering the Art of Reading Medieval Manuscripts A group of students met in Dartmouth Library's Rauner Special Collections Library to decipher handwritten texts from the Middle Ages. The class—"Latin Paleography," co-taught by Jennifer Lynn, language program director, Department of Classics, and medievalist Cecilia Gaposchkin, a professor and chair of the Department of History. Firing Up the Distant Past, With a Handmade Kiln Anne Johnakin '23 made a stone and clay oven to test fuels used in ancient ceramics. Recent Publications view all Innovation through Recoil from Networks Julie Hruby, Dimitri Nakassis, Kevin Pluta 99-115 in Interrogating Networks: Investigating Networks of Knowledge in Antiquity, ed. L. Foxhall Seneca: Fifty Letters of a Roman Stoic Margaret Graver University of Chicago Press, 2021 Revising Gender and Power in Callimachus Hymn 5, Women and Power in Hellenistic Poetry Simone Oppen Hellenistica Groningana 26 (2021), 321-339. "Slave Labor in Plautus" Roberta L. Stewart A Companion to Plautus. Edited by D. Dutsch and G. Franko. (John Wiley and Sons, 2020) 361-367. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Classics Curriculum Overview Course Offerings by Term Fall 2021 Winter 2022 Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 2023-24 Classical Studies Courses Entry points for Classical Studies Literature, Philosophy, Religion Ancient History Classical Archaeology Language Study -- Latin Latin Classes Placement in Latin Language Study -- Ancient Greek Courses in Ancient Greek Placement in Ancient Greek Majors and Minors Classical Studies track Ancient History track Classical Archaeology track Classical Languages and Literature track Culminating Experience Foreign Study NEW Classics FSP in Spring 2022 Greece Foreign Study Program Rome Foreign Study Program Projects & Awards Classics-Related Projects and Awards Student Research Archaeological Fieldwork Reid/Wiencke Funding for Research Senior Honors Projects Awards & Prizes Faculty Media Projects Annual Lecture Programs Faculty Books Inclusivity News & Events People Our graduates Graduating with a Classics Degree Alumni Support Tell Us Your Story Alumni Stories My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback