Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Communication Sciences and Disorders, BA Develop skills for a variety of careers in healthcare, education, science and/or public policy. Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Health Professions and Sciences Department(s) Comm Sci & Disorders, Schl of 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Gain Knowledge Related to Communication Development and Disorders The School of Communication Sciences and Disorders at UCF offers two undergraduate degree options: Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Communication Sciences and Disorders. Both programs are designed to provide students with a strong scientific foundation that leads to employment in a variety of entry-level careers in health and human services or to graduate study in speech-language pathology, audiology or related disciplines. Students engage in coursework related to speech, language and hearing development and disorders. In addition, a bachelor’s degree in CSD is the most common pathway to graduate education in speech-language pathology and/or audiology. A master’s degree is required to practice as a speech-language pathologist (SLP) and a doctoral of audiology degree (AuD) is required to practice as an audiologist. Related Programs: Communication Sciences and Disorders – Accelerated Track to MA: This track is for students who want to become a licensed SLP and allows you to begin taking graduate level courses while completing your undergrad degree Language Development and Disorders Certificate Highlights The SLP profession is projected to grow 29% over the next 10 years, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The median pay of a speech-language pathologist is $80,480, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders Basic principles of speech-language pathology and audiology. Language Development Spoken and written language development from infancy to adulthood. Physiological Bases of Speech An introduction to the anatomical, physiological, and physical elements underlying the communication process. Audiology Physics of sound, anatomy of hearing mechanism, pure tone audiometry, hearing aids, problems of the deaf and hard of hearing. Multicultural Aspects of Communication Disorders and Differences Cultural and linguistic diversity among individuals with communication disorders and differences. View All Communication Sciences and Disorders Courses You’ll Take The program gave me an understanding of the basic foundations of speech, language, and communication. It allowed me to deepen my passion for the field and future career!” — Sabrina Rogers '20 Communication Sciences & Disorders Skills You'll Learn Understanding of the science of human communication and its disorders Understanding of speech, language, and hearing development and disorders Analytical and critical thinking skills Evidence-based decision making Cultural competence for professional interactions in a diverse society Career Opportunities Speech-Language Pathology Assistant (SLPa) Audiology Assistant Behavior Therapist Teacher or Teacher Assistant Clinic/Hospital Support Staff College of Health Professions and Sciences News Check out more stories Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Colleges & Campus UCF Opens New Huntington’s Disease Multispecialty Clinic Located in Research Park, the new clinic offers multidisciplinary care from the College of Medicine, School of Social Work, and College of Health Professions and… Community UCF Class Spotlight: Introduction to American Sign Language In honor of National American Sign Language Day, April 15, here’s a look at a course — plus an instructional video — that teaches students… Health & Medicine UCF Students Team up to Provide Care at Apopka Farmworkers Clinic For the first time since the pandemic, the clinic has returned to in-person services at full capacity. CSD Alumna Earns Prestigious Certification, ASHA Award Speech-language pathologist Daniela Berrios '15 '17MA credits UCF's communication sciences and disorders program for setting her on the track to success. Explore her impact in the community Degree Search College of Health Professions and Sciences programs Bachelors Communication Sciences and Disorders (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a program advisor. The courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and usually should be completed in the first 60 hours. Students must earn at least a "C-" (1.75) in each prerequisite course, core course, restricted elective, and B.A./B.S. elective. Communication Sciences and Disorders is an unrestricted major, however, negative criminal background checks may result in the inability to complete coursework in this major. Degree Requirements Statistics Reqirement 3 - 4 Total Credits Complete at least 1 of the following: SPA4803 - Research Methods in Communication Sciences and Disorders (3) PSY3204C - Statistical Methods in Psychology (4) STA4163H - Honors Statistical Methods II (3) HSA4702 - Health Sciences Research Methods (3) Core Requirements 51 Total Credits Complete the following: DEP2004 - Developmental Psychology (3) SPA3002 - Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders (3) SPA3112C - Basic Phonetics (4) LIN3713 - Language Science (3) SPA3101 - Physiological Bases of Speech (3) SPA3104 - Neural Bases of Communication (3) LIN3716 - Language Development (3) LIN3716L - Language Development Lab (2) SPA4032 - Audiology (3) SPA3011 - Speech Science (3) SPA3412 - Communication and Cognition: Brain Stories (3) SPA3472 - Behavioral Methods in Communication Disorders (3) SPA4400 - Language Disorders Across the Life Span (3) SPA4476 - Speech Disorders Across the Lifespan (3) SPA4478 - Multicultural Aspects of Communication Disorders & Differences (3) SPA4326 - Hearing Disorders Across the Lifespan (3) SPA4870C - Capstone Course: (3) Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: upper division courses, selected from the list provided by the School of CSD, are required. Consult with CSD advisor as needed. 0 Total Credits B.A./B.S. Option (6-8 Credit Hours) Student pursuing a B.A. degree can use ASL II to satisfy the foreign language requirement OR a restricted elective requirement, not both. Students pursuing a B.S. degree can use both ASL I and ASL II to satisfy the restricted elective requirement. Grand Total Credits: 63 - 64 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida