Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Advocate for Florida State Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Advocate for Florida State Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide LegisLetter The Legisletter is produced weekly during the annual nine-week legislative session by the FSU Office of Governmental Relations. Its purpose is to inform FSU faculty, staff, students and supporters of legislative issues that impact the University. To view the most recent addition of the LegisLetter please click here. Past editions of the Legisletter are available on the Governmental Relations website. If you would like to be added to the list of email recipients of the Legisletter, please contact Toni Moore in the FSU Governmental Relations office at tmoore@fsu.edu or (850) 644-4453. Important Dates The Regular Session begins on Tuesday, March 2, 2021. Last day of the Regular Legislative Session is Friday, May 7, 2021. Seminole Evening Reception is scheduled for March 30, 2021. FSU Day at the Capitol is scheduled for March 31, 2021. Office of Governmental Relations 216 Westcott Tallahassee, FL 32306-1440 Telephone: 850-644-4453 or FAX: 850-644-2888 Share: Connect: Facebook © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media