Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Home About People Research Resources Training Programs News Site Navigation Home About History People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Administrative Staff Research Staff Postdocs Students Research Resources Training Programs News Training Programs The Brown University Community and Clinical Research Training (CCRT) Program Brown University’s Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity (CHPHE) hosts The Brown University Community and Clinical Research Training (CCRT) Program. This educational and mentoring program in clinical and community-based research trains new investigators in HIV research who are from or who conduct practice-oriented research in geographic hotspots of HIV infection. The CCRT Program aims to train the next generation of researchers to end the HIV epidemic and to conduct research related to reducing racial disparities in HIV outcomes. This program is led by Dr. Amy Nunn, with support from many other mentors around the United States. The CCRT program aligns with the US Plan to End the HIV Epidemic (EtHE). The program prioritizes training investigators from communities historically underrepresented in the sciences, with emphasis on training investigators from or conducting practice-oriented research in geographic hotspots of HIV infection, with a focus on the South. This mentoring program trains scholars in HIV disparities and health equity research, community-engaged research, geographically circumscribed interventions, implementation science with health departments, and novel delivery of HIV prevention and care interventions. The program aims to train the next generation of researchers in the communities most heavily impacted by the HIV epidemic to develop, implement, and evaluate interventions to reduce racial disparities in HIV prevention and care, including HIV screening, PrEP, and HIV treatment. This training includes formal coursework, mentoring workshops, one-on-one mentoring, working with executive coaches on leadership trainings, and experiential learning related to clinical service delivery experiences in real-world clinical and community settings. Program scholars will participate in a 2-year curriculum designed to train junior investigators to lead scientific initiatives to address social, structural and behavioral drivers of the HIV epidemic; lead clinical, epidemiological and implementation research to mitigate HIV disparities; and develop, implement, and evaluate culturally appropriate and geographically circumscribed interventions. Scholars will be paired with mentors to develop individualized training plans in alignment with the core curricula and scholars' individual goals. Scholars are expected to participate in all core workshops and webinars. Eligible applicants have a doctoral degree (e.g. MD, PhD, DrPH) or are currently enrolled in a doctoral program related to health sciences or health professions. Scholars may be eligible for tuition and travel assistance for program workshops, academic conferences, and professional development activities. There is no salary support. Scholars may be eligible for academic and professional development support through the CCRT program for up to five years following their acceptance into the program. The fellowship includes didactic training in clinical, behavioral or translational research as well as structured mentoring with a Brown University faculty member. The goal of the program is for trainees to develop successful research careers in the area of HIV/AIDS and health disparities. Much of the 2021-2022 curriculum year will be held virtually, with opportunities for in-person engagements in smaller groups. Plans to return to in-person curriculum events in 2022 will be developed based on the trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic. To receive an application link please send your CV and one paragraph statement of interest to Kerri Connolly at [email protected]. Full applications must be received by October 1, 2021. Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Center for Health Promotion and Health Equity Brown University Box G-121-8 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6550 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top