Skip to main content Boise State News Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Boise State News Only Boise State News Podcasts Contact Us More section menu items Boise State News News Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Health, Science and Technology Humanities and Arts News for the Campus Community Celebrate creativity and research at the 2022 virtual Undergraduate Research Showcase April 19, 2022 It’s April and that means the Boise State Undergraduate Research Showcase (URS) celebrating the trailblazing research and creative activities from every discipline on campus. The Showcase provides students from all disciplines the opportunity to share their ideas, discoveries, and creative scholarship with Boise State and beyond. Please join our creatives, innovators and researchers at the 2022 Virtual Undergraduate Research Showcase from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on April 22. URS 2022 is a virtual event, and will include student lightning talks, research conversations, and a virtual poster symposium with opportunities for each student presenter to give an elevator pitch of their research poster. The event is made possible through the efforts of the Office of Undergraduate Research and the campus-wide URS planning committee of dedicated faculty and staff co-chaired by Donna Llewellyn, Institute for Inclusive and Transformative Scholarships (IFITS) executive director, and Michal Temkin Martinez, a professor of linguistics. Visit the URS website for up-to-date information about the event including zoom links for the synchronous plenary lightning talks and poster session breakout rooms and for the link to site housing all of the student posters (which will open on April 21). Also check out the Event Site for a form for undergraduates to register to win a donated iPad (must be present at the closing session to win). Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Meet the 13 Lightning Talk Presenters JESSI BOYER Home Town: Twin Falls, Idaho “We’re seeking a deep understanding of the challenges and barriers experienced by adults who want or need to complete their degree.” – Boyer Inspiration: “I’m passionate about inclusive access, user experience research provides deep insights when solving for wicked problems involving human subjects.” Research Topic: Using UX methodology to identify barriers to higher ed for non-traditional students Big Idea: “This research has the potential to impact the community by helping to inform marketing strategies that reach more prospective non-traditional students.” Research Area: User Experience Research “We’re seeking a deep understanding of the challenges and barriers experienced by adults who want or need to complete their degree.” – Boyer Inspiration: “I’m passionate about inclusive access, user experience research provides deep insights when solving for wicked problems involving human subjects.” Research Topic: Using UX methodology to identify barriers to higher ed for non-traditional students Big Idea: “This research has the potential to impact the community by helping to inform marketing strategies that reach more prospective non-traditional students.” FLO CIAGLIA Home Town: Rome, Italy “My work investigates how to teach language to computers in a way that is most similar to how humans learn languages.” Inspiration: “The inspiring work done by professors in my field sparked my interest in research.” Research Topic: Computational linguistics Big Idea: “My research project aims at simulating the progression of words that children learn. The goal is to more accurately computationally model the ability to acquire new words.” Research Area: Computer Science “My work investigates how to teach language to computers in a way that is most similar to how humans learn languages.” Inspiration: “The inspiring work done by professors in my field sparked my interest in research.” Research Topic: Computational linguistics Big Idea: “My research project aims at simulating the progression of words that children learn. The goal is to more accurately computationally model the ability to acquire new words.” BRIE ELLISON Home Town: Eagle, Idaho “Studying biology and forensics has led me to cultivate an interest in biomedical research and to get involved in this study on glyphosate exposure in pregnant women.” Inspiration: “As a member of Boise State’s Speech and Debate team, I use research every day – to understand the world around us, the impact we have on it, and the impact we have on each other.” Research Topic: Measurement of agricultural and dietary glyphosate exposure among pregnant women Big Idea: “This research is an important first step in determining harm from glyphosate, as we aim to quantify the exposure of vulnerable populations and pinpointing the origins of those exposures.” Research Area: Health Sciences “Studying biology and forensics has led me to cultivate an interest in biomedical research and to get involved in this study on glyphosate exposure in pregnant women.” Inspiration: “As a member of Boise State’s Speech and Debate team, I use research every day – to understand the world around us, the impact we have on it, and the impact we have on each other.” Research Topic: Measurement of agricultural and dietary glyphosate exposure among pregnant women Big Idea: “This research is an important first step in determining harm from glyphosate, as we aim to quantify the exposure of vulnerable populations and pinpointing the origins of those exposures.” VALORIE MARIE Home Town: Burlington, Iowa “My current research will help the native plants and animals by giving us more information on where and how to allocate funds for maintaining these populations.” Inspiration: “The ocean has always been an inspiration to me.” Research Topic: Remote sensing in sagebrush restoration areas Big Idea: “Using drones and software, we defined the shrub crowns and extracted the RGB value of those pixels to determine the loss of green during the summer 2021 heatwave.” Research Area: Multidisciplinary Studies “My current research will help the native plants and animals by giving us more information on where and how to allocate funds for maintaining these populations.” Inspiration: “The ocean has always been an inspiration to me.” Research Topic: Remote sensing in sagebrush restoration areas Big Idea: “Using drones and software, we defined the shrub crowns and extracted the RGB value of those pixels to determine the loss of green during the summer 2021 heatwave.” COOPER MCGRATH Home Town: Meridian, Idaho “A majority of the world has been affected by cancer in some way, so having an opportunity to make a positive impact on the topic was a no-brainer.” Inspiration: “Making the world aware of this connection between cytokine signaling and the repression of BRCA1/2 will allow for physicians to better diagnose and treat breast cancers based on cytokine levels.” Research Topic: Cytokine signaling’s role on the repression of BRCA1/2 in breast cancer Big Idea: :BRCA1/2 protect your cells against the formation of cancer, and the disappearance of the proteins increases your chances of cancer developing.” Research Area: Health Sciences “A majority of the world has been affected by cancer in some way, so having an opportunity to make a positive impact on the topic was a no-brainer.” Inspiration: “Making the world aware of this connection between cytokine signaling and the repression of BRCA1/2 will allow for physicians to better diagnose and treat breast cancers based on cytokine levels.” Research Topic: Cytokine signaling’s role on the repression of BRCA1/2 in breast cancer Big Idea: :BRCA1/2 protect your cells against the formation of cancer, and the disappearance of the proteins increases your chances of cancer developing.” AUDREY PARKER Home Town: Boise, Idaho “Research provides the unique opportunity to tailor your interests in ways which can make the world a better place!” Inspiration: “I was inspired to pursue research as a creative outlet to solve complex challenges our world is facing.” Research Topic: Imaging on a nanoscale Big Idea: “Ultimately, nanoscale imaging can be used to better understand how these materials function in electronic devices.” Research Area: Materials Science and Engineering “Research provides the unique opportunity to tailor your interests in ways which can make the world a better place!” Inspiration: “I was inspired to pursue research as a creative outlet to solve complex challenges our world is facing.” Research Topic: Imaging on a nanoscale Big Idea: “Ultimately, nanoscale imaging can be used to better understand how these materials function in electronic devices.” DUSTIN NGUYEN Home Town: Whittier, California “My fascination with Star Wars lightsabers is what inspired my interest in researching battery technology.” Inspiration: “It is theorized that it would take the energy equivalent of a nuclear reactor compacted inside a AAA battery to power a lightsaber.” Research Topic: Battery technology. Big Idea: “My research is looking into alternative materials that can replace the current graphite electrodes in lithium-ion batteries to improve many of its characteristics, such as energy density and longevity.” Research Area: Engineering “My fascination with Star Wars lightsabers is what inspired my interest in researching battery technology.” Inspiration: “It is theorized that it would take the energy equivalent of a nuclear reactor compacted inside a AAA battery to power a lightsaber.” Research Topic: Battery technology. Big Idea: “My research is looking into alternative materials that can replace the current graphite electrodes in lithium-ion batteries to improve many of its characteristics, such as energy density and longevity.” MARGARET QUATRARO Home Town: Saint Clair Shores, Michigan “My research will encourage current and future healthcare providers to examine their biases.” Inspiration: “Stories from local women who experience weight stigma in our community.” Research Topic: Weight bias in healthcare. Big Idea: “Divesting from weight stigma and diet culture requires personal self examination, time, and support.” Research Area: Nursing Sciences “My research will encourage current and future healthcare providers to examine their biases.” Inspiration: “Stories from local women who experience weight stigma in our community.” Research Topic: Weight bias in healthcare. Big Idea: “Divesting from weight stigma and diet culture requires personal self examination, time, and support.” COLLIN SAFFELL Home Town: Silverdale, Washington “My research explores alternative methods of meat production that lowers carbon emissions. These alternatives have the potential to change our current way of getting meat to consumers.” Inspiration: “My research was inspired by personal interests. I knew consumers wasted a lot of product and I wanted to see what the impacts of those actions were on larger scales.” Research Topic: Meat production, consumption, and waste. Big Idea: “Current meat production is cruel to both animals and humans, but has the potential to still exist with more humane methods and standards.” Research Area: Social Sciences “My research explores alternative methods of meat production that lowers carbon emissions. These alternatives have the potential to change our current way of getting meat to consumers.” Inspiration: “My research was inspired by personal interests. I knew consumers wasted a lot of product and I wanted to see what the impacts of those actions were on larger scales.” Research Topic: Meat production, consumption, and waste. Big Idea: “Current meat production is cruel to both animals and humans, but has the potential to still exist with more humane methods and standards.” KENSIE STALLINGS Home Town: Garden City, Idaho “The research for my ranger program will create new opportunities for public engagement and education through music and science.” Inspiration: “My research was inspired by my two passions in life, astronomy and music. As a National Park Ranger, I wanted to combine these two passions into my career, providing positive experiences for visitors at National Parks.” Research Topic: Musical storytelling in the National Parks Big Idea: “Using music in park ranger programs will give visitors opportunities to create personal connections to the parks and to nature because music can can give meaning to a place and inspire visitors to listen more intently to the world they live in.” Research Area: Geosciences “The research for my ranger program will create new opportunities for public engagement and education through music and science.” Inspiration: “My research was inspired by my two passions in life, astronomy and music. As a National Park Ranger, I wanted to combine these two passions into my career, providing positive experiences for visitors at National Parks.” Research Topic: Musical storytelling in the National Parks Big Idea: “Using music in park ranger programs will give visitors opportunities to create personal connections to the parks and to nature because music can can give meaning to a place and inspire visitors to listen more intently to the world they live in.” TAYLOR TATUM Home Town: Caldwell, Idaho “I feel like geoscience is sometimes seen as an “old science”, but with recent developments we are finding new ways to understand the Earth and its processes.” Inspiration: “I have always taken a specific interest in piecing together how things work and the correlations that exist behind even the smallest of processes, natural and nonnatural.” Research Topic: Using Infrasound to measure stream characteristics Big Idea: “The application of sound (below the frequency of human hearing) to examine stream characteristics including flow rates and wave type.” Research Area: Math and Natural Sciences “I feel like geoscience is sometimes seen as an “old science”, but with recent developments we are finding new ways to understand the Earth and its processes.” Inspiration: “I have always taken a specific interest in piecing together how things work and the correlations that exist behind even the smallest of processes, natural and nonnatural.” Research Topic: Using Infrasound to measure stream characteristics Big Idea: “The application of sound (below the frequency of human hearing) to examine stream characteristics including flow rates and wave type.” CLAIRE VAAGE Home Town: Boise, Idaho “Growing up in the sagebrush sea allowed me to amass an appreciation for western landscapes and evolve as contributor to conservation efforts.” Inspiration: “The Dry Creek Experimental Watershed, though a beautiful place to hike or mountain bike, is an even better place to research. Be curious about your backyard!” Research Topic: Modeling riparian vegetation in sagebrush steppe ecosystems Big Idea: “Using coding and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software, I am developing a model that will predict the width of vegetation surrounding streams in sagebrush steppe ecosystems.” Research Area: Ecological Sciences “Growing up in the sagebrush sea allowed me to amass an appreciation for western landscapes and evolve as contributor to conservation efforts.” Inspiration: “The Dry Creek Experimental Watershed, though a beautiful place to hike or mountain bike, is an even better place to research. Be curious about your backyard!” Research Topic: Modeling riparian vegetation in sagebrush steppe ecosystems Big Idea: “Using coding and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software, I am developing a model that will predict the width of vegetation surrounding streams in sagebrush steppe ecosystems.” RYLIE WIESELER Home Town: Highlands Ranch, Colorado “Conflict resolution is often not a question of finding a single, perfect solution, but synthesizing solutions that target several drivers of conflict.” Inspiration: “I have always had a personal interest in China/East Asian politics because both myself and my younger sister are adopted from China. Dr. Chris Courtheyn enabled me to pursue this personal interest in a more formal, academic setting.” Research Topic: Hong Kong’s pro-democratic movement Big Idea: “My crisis analysis looks at the various political, social, economic, cultural and environmental factors that are driving this movement, presenting a holistic understanding of the conflict that makes it a more effective tool for directing U.S. foreign policy in East Asia.” Research Area: School of Public Service “Conflict resolution is often not a question of finding a single, perfect solution, but synthesizing solutions that target several drivers of conflict.” Inspiration: “I have always had a personal interest in China/East Asian politics because both myself and my younger sister are adopted from China. Dr. Chris Courtheyn enabled me to pursue this personal interest in a more formal, academic setting.” Research Topic: Hong Kong’s pro-democratic movement Big Idea: “My crisis analysis looks at the various political, social, economic, cultural and environmental factors that are driving this movement, presenting a holistic understanding of the conflict that makes it a more effective tool for directing U.S. foreign policy in East Asia.” Newer Posts Older Posts Office of Communications and Marketing communications@boisestate.edu (208) 426-1577 Alumni and Friends Center Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University