Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Apply Events Request More Info Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Quantitative Finance and Risk Management Develop expertise in the quantitative modeling and risk management principles and best industry practices driving the financial services industry today with the Master of Science in Quantitative Finance and Risk Management in Temple’s Fox School of Business. This 30-credit master’s degree program is the only program of its kind in the greater Philadelphia region, offering the ideal way to pursue your Financial Risk Manager (FRM) designation and a prestigious master’s degree simultaneously. The Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS will equip you with the knowledge and skills needed to pursue in-demand quantitative financial and risk management career roles. Explore evolving financial technology trends, develop global market insights and hone relevant skills including derivative valuation, enterprise risk management, machine learning in finance, numerical valuation methods, quantitative fixed income modeling and structured financial products. Endowing students with broad financial knowledge, the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS raises the benchmark for programs supporting the FRM designation through interdisciplinary studies in computational programming, continuous time finance, data science for finance, econometric and time series analysis, financial risk management, global markets, and numerical methods. Through one-on-one advising and career coaching, dedicated professional development seminars, and access to resources through the Center for Student Professional Development, you’ll craft a unique professional future, tailored specifically to your long-term career goals. Learn more about career coaching and other development opportunities. Request Information Learn more about the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Specialized Master's in Finance Programs Temple offers a suite of graduate programs dedicated to producing the next generation of finance professionals. Apart from the Master of Science in Quantitative Finance and Risk Management, Fox also offers the following finance-related programs. Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Your Path to FRM The FRM certification offered by the independent Global Association of Risk Professionals is among the most highly regarded professional designations for finance professionals. Pursuing both a Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS degree from Fox and the FRM designation will set you apart and enhance your career opportunities. To prepare students for the FRM exams, the program offers classes that end prior to exam dates for concentrated study time; and dedicated modules and industry study packages to support taking the complete FRM Exam Parts I and II during your graduate studies. Demonstrate your expertise in risk management and gain a competitive advantage in your career with the Financial Risk Manager designation. Learn more about the FRM designation. Classes & Curriculum An innovative curriculum structure featuring one- to 1.5-credit classes offers the opportunity to sit for multiple FRM exams during your graduate studies. You will also have the flexibility to complete the program in a variety of formats. Full-time 10-month path Immersive 22-month full-time path Part-time two-year path All courses take place in person on Temple's Main Campus or at Temple University Center City. The program's location in Philadelphia provides students with access to the benefits of city life and connections to leading organizations. Courses you will take as part of the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS curriculum include Enterprise Risk Management, Financial Time Series, Machine Learning in Finance, Numerical Methods, Quant Fixed Income, Stochastic Volatility and Value at Risk. Learn more about required courses within the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS program. Related Graduate Degrees Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Financial Analysis MS Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS degree program, contact the following faculty member. Cailin DiGiacomo is the assistant director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-0314 Email: c.digiacomo@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. See additional fees and costs associated with the Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS program. BU-QFRM-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Quantitative Finance and Risk Management MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info