COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW myWSU Section Menu ITS Applications Training Employee Training Resources Microsoft Office Training Banner Student Training CIM and CAT Reporting Tools Finance Training WSU Time Entry ePAF Training Schedule Building myTraining myWSU Training Opportunities Resources for Remote Work ITS Homepage employee_dashboard Advisor Dashboard Guide myWSU Features and Information What is myWSU? myWSU is WSU’s portal, single point of entry to web based services at Wichita State. To login, go to http://www.wichita.edu click Quick Links, select myWSU In the myWSU Login Enter your myWSU ID and password. Click the Login button. The Faculty/Staff tab houses a variety of options for WSU faculty and staff. For example: Employee Dashboard: All Employees: View benefits, leave balances, pay stubs, exempt employee Leave Reports and more myTraining: Sign up for trainings available to WSU Employees. myPerformance: Complete staff performance evaluations. Outlook Web Mail: View WSU email online Access Email Online Go to wichita.edu or click on Outlook Web Apps Mail in the Employee Toolbox channel in myWSU. Domain: enter ad\(your mywsuID): e.g. ad\A123Z987. Password: your established password. Private Computer: uncheck this box if you are using a public computer. Manage Your Password Go to http://mywsu.wichita.edu: Select Manage your password Enter your myWSU ID and current password. Click Submit. Forgot Password? Leave the password box blank. Click Forgot/Setup Password, Complete information requested. Enter New Password Click Change Password. (DO NOT check the lock my password account ) You will receive a message that your password was Click “Close Window”. Exit Manage your Password. Password Tips A new version of password management will launch at 6 a.m. Tuesday, November 3, 2020. Wichita State’s new Password Management application will add several new features and adopt the new State of Kansas security requirements. Here are the enhancements you will see: Passwords will now need to be a minimum length of 12 characters. Passwords can be up to 30 characters. Passwords are now able to start with a number. Passwords can now contain one or more special characters. Passwords will only be required to be changed every 180 days, expanded from 90 days. DO NOT: Do not use your first and last name in the password. Do not use more than numbers or letters in sequence. (ex 1234, abcd) Do not copy and paste the information, please enter it manually. The new Password application is mobile responsive. On mobile devices, you will need to re-enter your password on accounts that use your myWSU ID with your new password, for example: WSU email & WSU Secure IT Security Awareness (ITSA) must be current before changing your password. Having problems accessing myWSU or password management? Contact the Technology Help Desk at (316) 978-HELP or helpdesk@wichita.edu Voicemail Web Interface Voicemail Guide The voicemail guide provides instructions on how to call your voicemail from off campus, how to retrieve voicemails online, how to get voicemails sent to email, etc. Please note (Must be on campus or use VPN.) For additional information about the services and support provided by Telecommunications please visit their website at ITS Telecomunications Contact Telecommunications at (316) 978-3535 or telecomservices@wichita.edu Dropbox The myWSU Drop Box allows you to transfer sensitive files in a secure environment. This tool eliminates some issues related to setting the public and private keys that are necessary when transferring files through an e-mail attachment. How to Use WSU Drop Box Guide Shocker S.T.A.R.T. Shocker S.T.A.R.T. Services, Resources for getting and giving more from and to the community Training, Grow@WSU: Training and Professional Development opportunities for you. Activities, Event calendars and venue listitings to help you find things to do for fun. Resources, Being a Shocker and/or a state employee can earn you discounts. Tools, WSU has many software resources available for faculty and staff. myTraining WSU faculty, staff, and student employees have access to free training sessions for both personal and professional development. Visit the myTraining webpage for more information. Administrative Processes and Procedures Toolbox This toolbox contains guides and resources that are available for the various trainings and software that Applications Training supports. It also contains helpful information and resources for administrative personnel. Employee Required Trainings FERPA Training This online training is provided to educate faculty, staff, and student employees regarding the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). ITSA This training is provided to educate faculty and staff, and promote awareness of information security best practices. Annual Conflict of Interest The Kansas Board of Regents (KBOR) and WSU policies require that all University employees (except student employees and graduate students) complete and submit an annual report of financial interests and time commitments. Employee Self-Service The Employee Dashboard is a place where you can view your personal information including: Paystubs, leave balances and benefits Contact Information including address, email, phone and emergency contact Timesheet (Enter Time) And more! Office 365 Office 365 for WSU Faculty and Staff is for use on personal computers only. For WSU owned devices, Contact the Technology Help Desk at (316) 978-HELP to have an updated version of Microsoft Office installed. Microsoft Office 365 contains: Excel Word PowerPoint OneNote OneDrive storage And more! A maximum of five (5) installations of Office 365 are allowed on PCs, Macs, tablets or smart phones.WSU does not recommend storing FERPA protected information on OneDrive. For more instructions on how to access and download Office 365. Microsoft Office Downloads for Home Use ePermits This is your Shocker Parking portal where you can access and update your account, register your vehicle and purchase an ePermit. For more information about parking for faculty staff including: Where can I park? Parking Maps Parking Rates Please visit the parking website Faculty/Staff Parking Permit ITS Applications Training ITS Applications Training Team is dedicated to the software training needs of WSU employees, staff, and faculty. Provided services include in-person and online instruction as well as one to one support for several software applications available at Wichita State. Please visit their website at wichita.edu/applicationstraining for more information. myWSU Guide myWSU Guide Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 ITS_Training@wichita.edu 316-978-5800 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©