Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Menu About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info Baylor>Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development>Programs/Services>Students>Super Saturdays Super Saturdays The Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development offered Super Saturdays in Fall 2020 due to the pandemic. The course descriptions are included below as an example of the types of enrichment courses that are offered. We hope to return to in-person offerings soon. Check back periodically for more information! December 2020 Course Descriptions Grades 4–5 Trekking Around Our National Parks Shelley Taylor Lions, tigers, and bears! Oh my! Chances are good you will see all three of these beasts and more when you join us for an adventure you won’t soon forget. Grab your best trekking shoes and hat and come closer to your computer screen. (Sunscreen and sunglasses are optional!) You won’t want to miss a minute of our action-packed exploration of our National Parks. If you love nature, this journey is for you! Where should we start? Will we see all 60 parks along the way? Will we make it back alive? Only time will tell. Can’t wait to get started! See you soon! We Broke Out! Creating a Virtual Breakout Renee Hale Calling all detectives, puzzle solvers, and escape room enthusiasts! Grab your magnifying glass and get ready to break out! After escaping from a virtual breakout session, learners will brainstorm what is needed to make a good breakout room. Learners will then brainstorm ideas for their own virtual breakout. To do this, students will use several Google Suite tools including: Google Sites, Google Forms, Google Docs, and Google Drawings. Grades 6–8 The Circle of Creativity: Connecting Art, Music, and Storytelling Amy Wallace Do you listen to your favorite song and see pictures in your head? Do you see an image and hear music that fits perfectly? Calling all creative, artistic minds here! Be inspired by deaf artist Chuck Baird, who paints music he cannot hear; think abstractly like Kandinsky, who painted musical imagination; and more! Experience the cycle of creating art and music guided by cultural stories and creating stories shaped by influential music and art! Your Body’s Lifelines Ruth Osborne The heart and lungs are the body’s lifeline, delivering blood to the body’s tissues. This session will investigate these structures and their functions. This learning experience will enable students to develop an understanding of the relationship between these two sub-systems and their role in the complex system of the human body. Topics covered will include the anatomy of each system, the role of each system, and the impact of diseases on each system. Grades 9–12 Consumed: Passion, Pride, and Work in Dorothy Sayers’s The Zeal of Thy House Holly Spofford In Dorothy L. Sayers’s play, written for the Canterbury Festival in the 1930s, we experience the soaring heights of ambition with architect William of Sens, who is dedicated above all to being the one to finish rebuilding a damaged cathedral. Characters clash, experience temptation, and interact with angels as they pursue their goals and navigate relationships. Together, we will read the play aloud and ponder passion, pride, and work and vocation. Questions we will consider include the following: What does it look like to work and live passionately and well? What virtues aid us and which vices dog our steps in pursuing that goal? What temptations does a master artist face in commitment to his or her work? What does it mean to be a finite human in the world? Join us to explore these ideas and learn more about Sayers, a friend of Inklings C.S. Lewis and Charles Williams, and a prominent writer and public figure in 20th-century England. Identity Development and Social Action Ashley Hill This course recognizes the specific need for 21st-century anti-bias and anti-racist frameworks and learning experiences and therefore follows the 9–12 Teaching Tolerance social justice standards. Social justice lessons will include instruction on identity, diversity, justice, and action. This is a two-part course designed to involve students in self-awareness as well as realistic civic engagement and meaningful community-based activities through direct service experiences. Students are provided with opportunities to interact with one another in engaging restorative chats or “circles” and to begin critical consciousness work that invites them to learn how to engage in effective community action. During this 6-hour accelerated course, students will be equipped with Valencia D. Clay's Soundless Cries Do Not Lead to Healing workbook, which contains critical thinking prompts and activities that lead to social activity. Students will work together as an incubator group in Socratic-style virtual sessions to develop a model of possibility for social action in their own local communities. Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development School of Education Marrs McLean Science Building #312 Waco, TX 76798-7301 (254) 710-2171 gifted@baylor.edu Request Information Submit School of EducationMake a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Faculty and Staff Information Request Programs/Services Educators Educators GT Conference Parents Parent Conference Students Super Saturdays University for Young People Baylor TIP Resources Research Make a Gift Request Info