Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Events at Princeton Start End Search events Category - Any -AcademicsEntrepreneurshipArtsAthleticsCareerCulturalExhibitionsServiceSocial Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Observing Color in the Everyday 8:00 p.m. Jun 2 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater 7:30 p.m. Jun 3 Princeton-based actors… Princeton Actors Collective presents Old Times Wallace Dance & Theater 2:00 p.m. Jun 4 Princeton-based actors… Amor Mundi: Paintings by Cathy Nan Quinlan,  Cecilia Whittaker-Doe and Rachel Youens Wallace Dance & Theater 12:00 p.m. Jun 9 Three New York-based painters present recent landscape and still life paintings in an exhibition curated by visual arts professor Su Friedrich. Princeton… Yoga on the Lawn East Pyne, Courtyard 5:30 p.m. Jun 9 Explore the healing benefits of yoga while you enjoy a beautiful summer evening. Be sure to bring your own mat. Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Saturated and Unsaturated Color 8:00 p.m. Jun 9 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Color Harmony 8:00 p.m. Jun 16 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Artist Talk: Marilyn Minter 5:30 p.m. Jun 23 Drawing on the visual languages of fashion photography and advertising, Marilyn Minter makes photographs that are both luscious and bodily. Her work explores… Drawing from the Collections | Colored Pencils: Mark Making 8:00 p.m. Jun 23 The Museum is partnering with the Arts Council of Princeton to provide free online drawing classes. Weekly classes are taught by artist-instructor Barbara… Video Portrait Workshop Art on Hulfish 5:30 p.m. Jun 30 Join instructor Christopher Lopez to learn how to create your own video portrait using your smartphone. Participants will discuss and analyze the significance… Summer Carillon Bell Festival Princeton University Graduate College, 88 College Road West, Princeton, NJ 1:00 p.m. Jul 3 Summer Carillon Bell Festival Celebrating over 25 years of community recitals, the Graduate College will again host a free Summer Concert Series, the Princeton… Summer Film Series: Singin' in the Rain (1952) Alexander Beach 7:30 p.m. Jul 7 This year’s outdoor film series features three of our favorite musical films from across the decades. All films begin at sundown on Alexander Beach. Singin’… Summer Film Series: Chicago (2002) Alexander Beach 7:30 p.m. Jul 14 This year’s outdoor film series features three of our favorite musical films from across the decades. All films begin at sundown on Alexander Beach. Chicago… Video Portrait Collaborative Project Celebration Art on Hulfish 5:30 p.m. Jul 21 Join us for a celebration featuring select submissions to our Video Portrait Collaborative Project. This project encourages participants to consider their own… Opening Celebration: Witness / Rose B. Simpson Art@Bainbridge 1:00 p.m. Jul 23 Celebrate the opening of Witness / Rose B. Simpson at Art@Bainbridge. In her figural sculptures, Simpson’s personal experiences are distilled into evocative… Annual Picnic and Family Movie Night Alexander Beach 5:30 p.m. Jul 28 Celebrate summer with the Museum at our annual picnic on the lawn. Enjoy barbecue fare, live music, and family-friendly activities. Cosponsored by the… https://artmuseum.princeton.edu/calendar/2022-08/summer-film-series-la-la-land-2016 Alexander Beach 7:30 p.m. Aug 4 This year’s outdoor film series features three of our favorite musical films from across the decades. All films begin at sundown on Alexander Beach. La La… Reading Club: Witness / Rose B. Simpson Art@Bainbridge 5:30 p.m. Aug 11 Join a moderated discussion related to a short reading that explores themes developed in Witness / Rose B. Simpson related to Indigenous storytelling. The… Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice