Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban EducationIDTLiteracy Leadership & CoachingAutism StudiesSchool Library Information SpecialistSTEM Teacher LeadershipSpecial Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs School Library School Library Information Specialist Be part of a vast world of info, creativity, technology, knowledge, places and possibilities. Earn a School Library Information Specialist Master's degree or certificate. Go Beyond the Stacks Search endless possibilities with the School Library Information Specialist program Earn certification needed to work as K-12 School Librarian (TN Educator License, Endorsement 473) Program available entirely online Financial Aid Available for Graduate Students> Program Requirements Course plan Course Rotation Program Requirements The SLIS MS and Graduate Certificate require: 6 SLIS content courses. These courses are required for add-on SLIS endorsement or as part of initial teaching licensure. See Course plan and Course Rotation above for course schedule. ICL 7132 - Cataloging and Classification ICL 7133 - School Library Administration ICL 7134 - Internet in the School Library ICL 7301 - Literature in the PreK-12 School ICL 7730 - Foundations of Librarianship ICL 7731- Introduction to Bibliography Advanced clinical practicum (ICL 7800) in a school library that may be on the job if already licensed in another area To complete the MS degree, there are 3 additional courses. ICL 7059 - Models of Instruction EDPR 7521 - Introduction to Educational Research ICL 7992 - Masters Project or ICL 7993 - Professional Seminar If a student already has a Master's degree, only the 6 courses and practicum for school library certification are required. SLIS Graduate Certificate Students wanting to earn the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists must have an earned Master's degree and apply to be accepted in this graduate certificate program. Applicants must also hold a current teaching license or be in the process of obtaining teacher licensure. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the SLIS program coordinator and graduate advisor's approval. SLIS Graduate Certificate Graduation Requirements 1. The student must complete all seven required courses (6 SLIS and practicum) with a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher, for a total of 21 credit hours. 2. In the semester of the advanced clinical practicum, the student must submit a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the COE Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Admission to the Program Program Enrollment Information Any undergraduate degree is acceptable for admission into the program. The program is designed for those people who want to become school library media specialists. It may or may not be acceptable for public library, or other library positions. Enrollment can occur at the beginning of any semester, however to be officially admitted to the ICL M.S. degree program, students must apply and submit documents via https://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/future/apply_grad.php. Please note: Students can earn up to 12 hours (four 3-hour courses) in non-degree status. These hours can be transferred into your degree program once officially admitted. It is recommended that students take the two SLIS courses offered each semester. This will allow students to finish with all required core SLIS courses, including the Practicum (which must be conducted as the final semester), in a year-and-a-half. There are specific deadlines and requirements for notifying the Office of Clinical Practice of intent to conduct the Practicum. The applications, requirements and additional information can be found at https://www.memphis.edu/tep/clinical/clinical-teaching.php. Also, the prospective Library Practicum participant must successfully pass the 5311 Praxis exam prior to the Practicum field experience. There is no minimum course load; however it is recommended that students take two courses per semester. Please consult the entire course rotation for proper planning. When registering for the SLIS classes, be sure to register in the M50-designated online course sections. These M50 courses incur online fees and affects the out-of-state tuition. If you have questions about the fees and tuition cost, please contact the Office of the Registrar. Also, all M50 courses require a special permit to insure that program enrollees are provided with appropriate course registration opportunity. Steps in the Admission Process Visit the ICL Admissions page for questions about admissions to the Graduate School and the ICL Department. Apply to: Master of Science (MS) Degree Concentration in Instruction and Curriculum and an endorsement in School Library Information Specialist. If you are not seeking a Master's degree, you should enroll as non-degree seeking. Up to 12 credit hours (four courses) earned as non-degree status can be transferred to a MS degree. Credit hours earned more than six years prior to enrolling cannot be applied towards the program. The ICL Academic Services Associate can answer ICL Masters' program and credit transfer questions. Please see the Graduate Admissions web site to learn more on all other admissions information. For UM fees and tuition visit the University Student and Business Services. Links and Contact Information Contact Us Ms. Shelby Lynn Tate, Academic Services Associate state1@memphis.edu Dr. Andrew Tawfik, Coordinator of SLiS aatawfik@memphis.edu Important Links UofM Global> Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.