Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Governance and Administration> University Communications> Coordination of the University Image, Marketing, Advertising, and University Mark Usage - Version 1 Coordination of the University Image, Marketing, Advertising, and University Mark Usage Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG01.30.03 Title Coordination of the University Image, Marketing, Advertising, and University Mark Usage Category Governance and Administration Sub-category University Communications Authority Chancellor History New Regulation approved February 1, 2015; Editorial changes made October 24, 2018 Contact Director of Creative Services (252) 737-1974 Related Policies Additional References ECU Licensing Program University Image Guidelines (pdf) ECU Athletics Brand Guide (pdf) University Communications Logo Review Academic Review Process 1. PURPOSE Every organization is perceived in some manner by its constituents. In the absence of an image cultivated by the organization, the general public will create its own. The success of each part of the university contributes to the reputation of the whole institution, and the reputation of the university affects the success and reputation of each unit. It is in the university’s best interest that its promotional efforts across campus present a consistent, high-quality image. Furthermore, improper representation of the university image and misuse of the university name and marks can be detrimental to the university’s reputation and rights. It is necessary, therefore, that the university take steps to consistently project and protect its image by establishing regulations governing promotional materials, advertising, and appropriate use of protected university marks. East Carolina University has determined that the name “East Carolina University,” the words “East Carolina,” the abbreviation “ECU,” the university seal and logos, the university athletics emblems, the Alumni Association Marks, the ECU Physicians marks, and all other authorized university symbols, marks and registered terms (collectively “University Marks”) shall not be used by any person, group or organization for any promotional activity, on or off campus, without the approval of the university. 2. DEFINITIONS For the purpose of this regulation, these terms have the following meanings: 2.1 Promotional materials: All forms of marketing materials carrying any of the University Marks that are used to generate awareness, interest, decisions, or action related to the university or its programs. These items can include but are not limited to: merchandise, such as shirts, water bottles, koozies, and tote bags; as well all forms of communication, including brochures, flyers, postcards, posters, PowerPoint presentations, websites, and electronic communications. 2.2 Advertising: Non-classified advertising appearing in any media promoting the university or its programs. 2.3 The University Image, a Guide to Publications and Advertising: The authorized manual published by University Communications specifying the standards related to use of University Marks for promotional purposes. 3. APPLICABILITY This regulation applies to all university employees, students, units, departments, programs, groups and organizations. 4. COORDINATING AUTHORITY The authority to approve use of University Marks and to establish the appropriate guidelines and procedures governing the university image, marketing, advertising, and University Mark usage is delegated to the Chief Communications Officer or his/her designee. 5. ADHERENCE TO IMAGE STANDARDS All promotional materials and advertising for the university must conform to the standards set forth in The University Image, a Guide to Publications and Advertising, which can be accessed in the additional references section of this PRR. 6. COORDINATION OF DISPLAY ADVERTISING The Director of Marketing Strategy or designee must approve any space or time reservations for non-classified, off-campus advertising. This includes newspaper and magazine display ads, billboards, radio and television spots, and online advertising. NOTE: Only authorized university employees may sign contracts for the university. 7. UNIVERSITY MARK USAGE The University Marks, as set forth in The University Image, a Guide to Publications and Advertising, as it may be amended from time to time, and the Athletics Style Guide are the only marks approved for use by the university community. These marks supersede and replace all other logos or marks used by individual units, departments, or programs. No other marks or logos may be used to represent the university or its programs without receiving prior written approval from the Director of Creative Services or the Trademark Licensing Coordinator for licensing, respectively. 8. PRODUCTION OF PROMOTIONAL MERCHANDISE All designs for promotional merchandise, materials, or advertising bearing a University Mark must be reviewed and approved by Creative Services prior to production. Designs can be submitted online via the University Communications webpage. The link can be found in additional references at the top of this PRR. 9. PRODUCTION AND REVIEW OF STUDENT RECRUITMENT PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS All student recruitment materials must be created or approved prior to publication by Creative Services. All proposed publications listing courses and degree requirements must be submitted and approved by Academic Affairs and/or the Graduate School for academic review and approval prior to submission to Creative Services. The link can be found in additional references at the top of this PRR. 10. ENFORCEMENT Violations of this regulation may result, in accordance with applicable university policy, in disciplinary action against ECU employees, up to and including discharge, and ECU students, up to and including expulsion, and/or legal action if any laws or the legal rights of the university are violated. Furthermore, the Chief Communications Officer may take administrative action, including, but not limited to, prohibiting a university employee, student, unit, department, program, group or organization from utilizing unauthorized promotional materials or engaging in other activities in violation of this regulation. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier