Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Search form SearchSearch Philosophy Politics and Economics Philosophy Politics & Economics Home Study People Events News Contact SearchSearch Declaring PPE Declare PPE as your major by completing the Declare/Update Field of Study Form on Path@Penn and then schedule a meeting with the PPE Associate Director. Learn More Considering PPE? Advising Scheduler Thematic Concentration Master's Program Events There are currently no events of this type to view at this time. News PPE Welcomes Dr. Dorsch! December 1, 2021 PPE is excited to announce Dr. Kate Dorsch will be joining us as the new PPE Associate Director in January 2022. We would like to thank Dr... Cristina Bicchieri Interviewed at... June 29, 2021 NYU Abu Dhabi held an inaugural event to showcase their new Center for Behavioral Institutional Design (C-BID); the center will... Cristina Bicchieri on the New... June 18, 2021 PPE Director, Cristina Bicchieri, was interviewed by Wharton Business Daily to discuss the new norms of mask wearing. Listen to her... What We Do Penn SNBD Partner of PPE, the Center for Social Norms and Behavioral Dynamics is a newly formed research center which aims to support positive behaviors on a global scale, across both informal and organizational settings. Penn SoNG Headed by experts in the field of behavioral change, Penn SONG (Social Norms Group) provides specialized research, strategy, and training services to organizations attempting to positively impact human behavior. Meet PPE Cristina Bicchieri Director David Dillenberger Professor of Economics Sudeep Bhatia Assistant Professor of Psychology Raj Patel PPE Fellow (Fall 2020 - Present) Laura Marcon PPE Fellow (Fall 2021 - Present) Kate Dorsch Associate Director, PPE ‹ › Meet PPE David Dillenberger Professor of Economics Raj Patel PPE Fellow (Fall 2020 - Present) Sudeep Bhatia Assistant Professor of Psychology Laura Marcon PPE Fellow (Fall 2021 - Present) Cristina Bicchieri Director Kate Dorsch Associate Director, PPE ‹ › Meet Our Students Undergraduate Advisory Board PJPPE The Penn Journal of Philosophy, Politics & Economics Goldstone Forum Goldstone Forum 2021: Robert... 20th Annual Goldstone Forum Social Norms-Based Messaging: A (Nonpolluting) Engine for Environmental... Links @PennPPE on Twitter @UPennPPE on Facebook Center for Social Norms and Behavioral Dynamics Master of Behavioral and Decision Sciences Penn SoNG Contact Information 311 Claudia Cohen Hall 249 S 36th Street University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215-898-3023 Fax: (215) 573-2231 Email: ppe-program@sas.upenn.edu Donate Penn Weblogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania