Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Board of Trustees Board of Trustees Home Welcome from the Board of Trustees On behalf of the Board of Trustees, it is my pleasure to welcome you to Clemson University. Clemson has been a special part of my life, and it is so gratifying now to be working with the Clemson family to help ensure all our tomorrows are as successful as our yesterdays. Nationally recognized for both academic quality and value, Clemson is a land-grant, science- and engineering-oriented research university that maintains a strong commitment to teaching and student success. It is characterized by high academic standards, a culture of collaboration, school spirit, patriotism, and a competitive drive to excel. The university was founded in 1889 through a bequest from Thomas Green Clemson, a Philadelphia-born, European-educated engineer, musician and artist who married John C. Calhoun’s daughter, Anna, and settled at her family estate in South Carolina. Mr. Clemson believed that the way to rebuild his adopted state’s war-ravaged economy was through scientific education, so he left his home and fortune to the state of South Carolina to create the institution that bears his name. His will also outlined a unique governance system that includes seven Trustees who select their successors and six Trustees who are appointed by the State Legislature, a system that provides both long-term stability and public accountability. The Board’s role is to govern through establishment of policies that ensure academic quality and freedom, protect the university’s financial security, and ensure efficient and effective administration through the Board’s selected president and his or her executive officers. Sincerely, Kim A. Wilkerson, Chair More information about the Board, its policies, and its meetings can be found on this site. Thank you for visiting. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us. Meeting Dates Board Secretary Search Committee Tuesday, May 31, 2022 - 9:00 a.m. Web/Teleconference 2022 Quarterly Meetings July 21-23 October 20-21 2023 Quarterly Meetings February 2-3 April 20-21 July 20-22 October TBD 2024 Quarterly Meetings February 1-2 April 18-19 July 18-20 October TBD *all locations are in Clemson, SC unless otherwise noted. Search BOT This search box will search the whole Board of Trustees web site. This includes: Policies, Minutes, and the Manual Home Award for Excellence Clemson Medallion Committees Manual Members Minutes Policies Values Statement Contact Us Task Forces History of Clemson Related Links University President University Provost Board of Trustees Board of Visitors Diversity and Inclusion Faculty Senate Staff Senate University Reports Accountability Report Clemson University Security and Fire Safety Report ClemsonForward Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram