Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application International Graduate Student Application Instructions Online Application My Account Application Instructions Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Admissions Criteria Admission criteria are established by both the Graduate College and by the graduate program. Iowa State requires a bachelor’s or higher degree from a regionally-accredited college or university prior to beginning graduate studies. Because holding a degree from a regionally accredited institution is a fundamental requirement for graduate study at Iowa State University, no appeals to waive this requirement are considered. International degrees must be comparable to a US bachelor’s degree or higher from a college or university regionally accredited/recognized by the Ministry of Education in that country. 3-year degrees from India, Bangladesh, Canada (excluding Quebec), Nepal, and Pakistan are not accepted. 3-year degrees from other countries are reviewed on an individual basis. A minimum cumulative grade point average equivalent to at least a 3.0 on a 4.0 scale (B grade) is required for admission. The English proficiency requirements of the Graduate College and the graduate program to which you have applied must both be met prior to enrollment. There is no university-wide requirement that graduate applicants submit results from the Graduate Records Examination (GRE) or the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT); however, most programs do require one or the other. Apply Pre-application Iowa State University’s Graduate College has made the use of a pre-application available to graduate departments. Some departments have chosen to require or optionally use this pre-application. The pre-application is free, does not require letters of recommendation or most other documents, and consists of only a subset of the primary application questions, enough information for departments to make a recommendation on the applicant based on academics. Starting an application or pre-application is the same no matter which method the department(s) use. Applicants who apply using the pre-application, should hear something from their department within a few weeks. If approved to move on to phase 2, applicants will then be asked to provide the remaining application requirements, documentation, letters of recommendation, and pay the application fee. Deadlines Deadlines are set by and vary by graduate programs. Deadlines represent the endpoint in the application process (i.e., the final completion of your file) rather than the beginning of that process. All materials with the exception of examination results should be received by the program deadline for timely consideration. Graduate programs vary in their willingness to consider late applications. Application Processing Fee Our graduate application form is only available online. The $100 application fee for international students is nonrefundable. If you prefer not to pay the application fee by credit card, you may complete and print the online application, and attach your personal check. All checks should be in US dollars and made payable to Iowa State University. Multiple Programs If you wish to apply to multiple programs, you will incur multiple nonrefundable application fee charges (e.g., $200 for two programs; $300 for three programs). You will not need to submit multiple copies of your supporting application materials, as those will be made available to all programs to which you apply. Fee Waivers The only fee waivers offered are to Vietnam Educational Foundation (VEF) finalists(not semi-finalists). This is accomplished by checking “yes” to the question on the international graduate application asking if you are a VEF Finalist. Completing the Application Name Your family name (last name or surname) should be entered first. It is important that you use the same spelling and order of your name that appears on your passport. If variations of your name (i.e., maiden name, etc.) will appear on examination score reports or academic records, please provide those variations in the space provided. If you have only one name, please enter it in the last name or surname field. Address U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) require that international students requesting a student visa provide a residential address outside the United States. We recommend you avoid using PO Box addresses whenever possible as express mail carriers will not deliver to PO boxes. Universities Attended Please list your most recent university first, including the one you are currently attending. Note for Indian applicants: Please list the university that will award your degree, NOT the affiliated or constituent college in which you are enrolled. Grade Point Average (GPA) On the application, you are asked to provide your cumulative GPA at the undergraduate level (and graduate if appropriate). You should use the grading system used at your institution, and provide the maximum attainable score as well. For example, for U.S. schools, one would write “3.0/4.0.” Students graded on percentage systems might write 80/100%. Examples of other systems include: 2nd Class Upper/1st Division; 7/10; 13/20, etc. Statement of Purpose The Statement of Purpose is part of the actual application form. There is a strict limit of 500 words, so we encourage you to be succinct. You can either add your statement of purpose in the field provided on the application form, or upload it as a PDF. Please choose one option, not both. Once submitted, no changes can be made, so please proofread your statement (as well as all other entries) carefully before submitting your application. Online Recommendations Iowa State University prefers that you use the online letter of recommendation process. By including your recommenders’ names and email addresses on the application form, they will be sent an email with a link to our online Letter of Recommendation form after you submit your application. Emails to your recommenders will not be sent until you pay the application fee and submit your application. More details are provided in the Letter of Recommendation section of these instructions. Examination Requirements All examinations should be taken at least six weeks prior to the graduate program’s application deadline to ensure timely receipt and processing of results. Test results must be sent directly from the testing agency to our institution to be considered official. Please upload copies of any examination results you have as they may help the university locate your official test scores when your application is processed. English Proficiency Nonnative English speakers must meet the university’s English proficiency requirement in one of the following ways: Submit official results from one of the following exams. The minimum requirements of both the Graduate College and the graduate program to which you are applying must be met. The minimum scores accepted by the Graduate College are: Internet Based TOEFL (iBT) 79 Paper-Based TOEFL (PBT) 550 IELTS 6.5 Pearson Test of English (PTE) 53 DuoLingo English Test 105 (only approved through spring 2023 semester) Official TOEFL exam results must be sent directly from the Educational Testing Service to Iowa State electronically. Our school code is 6306. Official IELTS and PTE results should be sent directly by the testing agencies to the Office of Admissions, Iowa State University, 100 Enrollment Services Center, Ames, IA 50011-2011. Earn a bachelor’s or higher degree from a country where English is the only official language, such as the following. (Complete list available from Admissions.) Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Bermuda Canada (exc. Québec) Dominica Ghana Grenada Guyana Ireland Jamaica Liberia New Zealand Nigeria Uganda United Kingdom United States (exc. PR) Zambia Zimbabwe Graduate Records Examination (GRE) Most programs do not enforce strict cut-off scores. Rather, they review an applicant’s complete application package and credentials before making a decision. Official GRE results are sent electronically by the Educational Testing Service. Our school code is 6306. No Department Codes are required, but if you have selected one, it will not impact the delivery of your results. Graduate Management Aptitude Test (GMAT) The GMAT is accepted or required of applicants to business-related programs. Please check the Program Requirements page to determine if your program of choice requires it. Academic Records Academic records are called different names in different countries. In the US, we call them official “transcripts.” In India, the acceptable documents are referred to as “annual marksheets;” in Spanish-language countries, they may be called certificado de studios; in France, relevé de notes. Records bearing the original stamp or seal of the school official responsible for issuing such records (the registrar, principal, controller of exams, etc.) are considered “official.” Records certified by lecturers, professors, or any other school officials who do not hold primary responsibility for maintaining the academic records of the institution are not official. Academic records printed from a school’s website are also not accepted. Note for applicants from India: We require semester or annual marksheets. College-issued transcripts will only be accepted from autonomous colleges. Consolidated mark sheets are not accepted unless all attempts, retakes, and failures are included. When uploading marksheets to your application account, select “Transcripts” not “Exams.” Translations: Academic records should be in the official language of the country in which they were earned. If that is not English, an English language translation should be uploaded in addition to the official foreign language academic record. We will accept literal (not interpretative) English translations from any qualified translator. Previous Iowa State students: If you were previously enrolled at Iowa State, you do not need to request your Iowa State transcripts; the Office of Admissions will obtain them directly. Letters of Recommendation (LOR) The US Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) gives enrolled students the right to view the contents of their application files. It is common practice to ask applicants for admission to sign a voluntary waiver of the right to see their letters of recommendation. It is not uncommon for recommenders to refuse to write a letter of recommendation unless they have assurance that their letter will be kept confidential. So if you indicate you do not waive your right, we encourage you to contact your recommenders and see if they will still write a letter of recommendation, because once you make your selection and submit your application, you may not change your response to that question. Email Requests for Letters of Recommendation Occasionally, a recommender will indicate they have not received our email notification with the link to the LOR form. In that event, please check that you entered their email address accurately on the application. If not, you may edit the information on the application and send a reminder to the new address. If it was entered correctly, the email may have been intercepted by the recommender’s SPAM filter. Please ask them to check their SPAM folder for the message. As a last resort, they could provide you with an alternative email address, or submit the PDF LOR provided on our website (instructions below). Managing Your Online LORs Iowa State’s online application system allows you to track when your online LORs are submitted, as well as change recommenders, edit email addresses, and send reminders to your recommenders. To do so, go to Graduate Apply, and click on “Apply” (as if you are going to fill in another application). The Log In page will appear where you can reenter your User Name and Password to sign in. Click “Manage Documents” and you will be able to see and track the status of any online LOR. The following options are offered: Cancel: If a recommender has not completed the letter, you may cancel the letter request. You will be returned to the Manage Documents page and allowed to add a new recommender name and email. Resend: If you would like to send a reminder, select Resend Email, and a new request will be sent to the recommender. Edit: If you made an error in the email address of a recommender, or if the recommender has now chosen to send a paper letter of recommendation, you may edit that information. Add New Recommender: This will allow you to send a letter of recommendation request to a new individual not listed on the original application for admission. PDF Letters of Recommendation If a recommender does not wish to submit a LOR online, or has difficulty doing so, please follow these instructions: Download the PDF copy of the Letter of Recommendation form, complete Sections 1 and 3, and save the completed form. Send the form to your recommender. You must include the postal address and/or email address of the program to which you have applied so your recommender will know where to send the form once completed. (You will find contact information on the Program Requirements webpage.) Please be aware that only online recommendation letters are tracked on the Online Application System. You will not be able to track LORs that are submitted by email or sent by post. Those should be sent directly to the graduate program to which you apply. LORs should not be sent to the Office of Admissions. Financial Statement This form is required for the purpose of issuing the visa eligibility form (Form I-20). No Form I-20 will be issued until we receive documentation that you have sufficient financial resources to cover your annual expenses. The Financial Statement should be uploaded to your application account, not sent by email. While your application will be reviewed without this form, the lack of financial documentation will cause a delay in the issuance of your documents. If you choose to wait until you receive our admission decision before submitting financial information, you will be sent an email detailing what documents are required prior to the issuance of your official admission documents, including your letter and I-20. Consult the Estimated Annual Expenses for the amount of money a typical student spends in the current academic year at Iowa State. U.S. consular officers typically require that an amount equal to one full year of support be readily available, such as in a bank, and that you have a documented source of support for the following years. For confidentiality purposes, we strongly urge you to cross out the bank account number on any bank documents prior to uploading. If your government or another agency is sponsoring you, the letter of award should include the dollar amount of the scholarship, the number of years it will be provided, and the degree for which the support is given. Graduate assistantships: Graduate assistantships are awarded on the basis of academic and/or professional excellence. Recipients receive tuition reduction and a stipend (salary) to work approximately 10 or 20 hours per week on assigned professional responsibilities, such as teaching or research. Assistantships do not always cover the full cost of attendance; in those cases, the applicant must cover the remaining costs. We ask that you indicate the maximum amount of funds you can provide for your own support annually on the Financial Statement. Uploading Documents In order to save you the time, effort, and expense of mailing supplemental application materials such as academic records, departmental forms, and financial documentation, Iowa State encourages you to upload your supplemental materials at the time that you complete your online application for admission. Uploaded materials will be used to make the admissions decision. Only if you are offered admission to Iowa State will you be required to submit official academic records and financial documents. Do not send any hard copy academic records until you have been offered admission and have decided to matriculate. Documents may be uploaded at the same time that you submit your online application, or at a later time. The following are required: Scanned copies of official academic records and degree statements issued by any institution where you earned (or will earn) a bachelor’s or comparable undergraduate degree, and any institution attended after that (e.g., graduate work, postgraduate diplomas, etc.) Student copies of your examination results (GRE, GMAT, TOEFL, IELTS, etc.) Any supplemental forms or materials required by the graduate program as indicated in the Program Requirements The Graduate Financial Statement and supporting bank document. Please do not upload the following: Secondary and/or pre-university records Merit certificates or certificates of participation Undergraduate records of only one semester enrollment or 15 credits or less unless taken after your degree Web-based advising reports or online transcripts Transcripts labeled “unofficial”or “grade report” Credential evaluations (i.e., WES, ECE, etc.) Theses or dissertations Scanning Tips Save your documents as a PDF files. We will not accept TIFF, JPEG, or Word files. If scanning transcripts from multiple schools, scan them as individual files. When scanning an English translation of a foreign language document, scan the English translation first. Ensure that the institution name and other identifying marks are not missed during the scanning process. If your academic record includes a legend or key which provides information on the university grading scale, please include one copy of that page. Scan the document at the lowest resolution possible to produce a legible document (maximum 300 dpi). The file size cannot exceed 3MB (3,000 KB). If the scanned file is still too large, make a photocopy of the document and then scan the photocopy. Please review the image after scanning to ensure it is legible. If it is not, delete it, and experiment with different scanner settings until you find one that results in a legible document. Managing Your Documents Once you have submitted your application, a list of the unofficial documents attached to your application can be found in this section of the Online Application System. You can also upload new documents at any time. A link is provided to the Program Requirements page of the program(s) to which you are applying so that you can ensure you submit all required supplemental documents. Difficulty in Uploading/Scanning We understand that not all applicants have the ability to prepare scanned legible documents for upload to the online application system. Your application will receive full consideration as long as your official transcripts are in the Office of Admissions by the appropriate deadline. Important Note: Iowa State reserves the right to rescind any offer of admission if any discrepancies are found between your uploaded and official academic records and test scores, if altered or forged records are submitted, and if any essay, personal statement, or other supplemental materials include plagiarized information. If this information is discovered after matriculation at the institution, disciplinary action may be taken up to and including dismissal from the university. Application Processing Upon receipt of the online application, all required academic records (transcripts), and satisfactory examination results, the Office of Admissions logs in your materials and make them available to the graduate program(s) to which you have applied. If you have not uploaded the required academic records, your file will be marked “Incomplete” and an automated email will be sent to you informing you that a required academic record is missing. Each graduate program has its own processes for file review. Some may notify you when an item is missing; others consider it the applicant’s responsibility to meet their published requirements, and will not contact you. Some graduate programs do their review on a rolling basis, and others wait until February or March to begin their review. Please contact the graduate program directly for information on when their decisions are usually made. The graduate program makes its admission recommendation to the Graduate College for the Dean’s approval and then a final review in the Office of Admissions. Until the Graduate Dean has approved the admission recommendation, and the Office of Admissions has conducted their final review, the program’s decision is unofficial. Once approved by the Dean, the Office of Admissions receives the electronic file for their final review. After the Office of Admissions conducts the final review, formal action is taken. Some departments notify the applicant of their recommendation to the Graduate College; others prefer to wait until the Graduate College has approved the decision and formal notification can be sent by the Office of Admissions. Notification of Admission If you are approved by the Graduate Dean for admission to the university, the Office of Admissions reviews the following: If you will be on an F-1 or J-1 visa, Admissions reviews your financial documents to ensure you have made satisfactory arrangements to cover your educational and living expenses (and those of any family members) for the duration of your program. If not, you will be notified what is missing. If you have sufficient private funds, a full scholarship, or have been given full funding by the graduate program, your file will be released for issuance of the visa eligibility form (I-20 or DS-2019). Your academic records will be reviewed, and you will be instructed to send hard copies of your official final academic records and degree statements. You should send them to the Office of Admissions at the address at the end of this document. Important note: If all records are not received by the deadline you are given, your admission maybe cancelled and your I-20 or DS-2019 terminated in the US Student and Exchange Visa Information System (SEVIS). The official admission letter (and I-20 Form) will be emailed to international students living abroad. International students living in the U.S. will receive the official admission letter by U.S. Mail. All materials submitted in support of your application of admission become the property of Iowa State University and will not be returned in original or copy. The official admission letter (and I-20 Form) will be emailed to international students living abroad. International students living in the U.S. will receive the official admission letter by U.S. Mail. Questions and Contacts It is always our pleasure to assist students in their application process; however, we do ask that students read all instructions carefully before contacting us, as answers to your questions may have already been addressed. You can also check out our Graduate FAQ. In order to better serve you, please also note below which office should be contacted regarding application issues: Office of Admissions Graduate Program Application fees Application deadline Online application form Letters of recommendation Uploading documents GRE/GMAT examinations English proficiency exams Admissions/denial decisions Academic records/degrees Assistantship decisions Visa forms Express mail requests Contact the Office of Admissions Mailing address: Office of Admissions 100 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Drive Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011-2011 USA Tel: 1 515 294-5836 Fax: 1 515 294-2592 Email: admissions@iastate.edu Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...