Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Athletics & Recreation > Sports > It's Trophy Season Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive "It's Trophy Season" The first two Mondays in February are reserved for a tournament that has become a beloved city tradition. Since 1952, Boston’s college hockey bragging rights and the storied Beanpot trophy have been up for grabs in a game that draws students, alumni, and hockey fans around the region. Athletics & Recreation / Sports - Published on January 17, 2016 Play The first two Mondays in February are reserved for a tournament that has become a beloved city tradition. Since 1952, Boston’s college hockey bragging rights and the storied Beanpot trophy have been up for grabs in a game that draws students, alumni, and hockey fans around the region. Igniting cross-town rivalries, the Beanpot Hockey Tournament invites the four largest hockey programs in Boston—Boston College, Boston University, Northeastern, and Harvard—to face-off in a unique two game series at the TD Garden. "It's an athletic must," the late John "Snooks" Kelley, longtime Boston College coach, said two decades ago. "It's a social must...Four schools separated by the Charles River and the length and breadth of Commonwealth Avenue, regardless of records." Each Beanpot Tournament goes down as something special, from the spectator-stranding Blizzard of '78 and Northeastern's twenty-eight year quest for the trophy that was finally earned in a overtime goal in 1980, to just last year when the BC men earned their 20th Beanpot championship in the first 1-0 game in tournament history (...and the arena lights went out). The Beanpot is not to be missed. Related links Beanpot 2016: Chaos on Causeway: Eagles take home 20th Beanpot trophy Beanpot 2016: Trivigno’s hat trick, Burt’s shutout give No. 1 Boston College women’s Beanpot over No. 6 Northeastern Beanpot Hockey Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College