Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Political Science Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Majors Minors Courses Distinction Program Funding and Awards People Research Research John Goodwin Tower Center About About Contact Us Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Political Science Political Science Undergraduate Programs Majors Majors Political Science, B.A. The political science curriculum addresses political ideas, institutions, and processes in such regional settings as Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the United States, and in such problem settings as international relations, economic and social policies, and constitutional and public law. The department offers undergraduate courses in four subfields: American Government and Politics, Comparative Politics, Political Theory, and International Relations. The last two digits of the course number indicate its subfield. 20-39 American Government and Politics 40-59 Comparative Politics 60-79 Political Theory 80-99 International Relations You must take introductory courses – at the 1000 level – in two of these subfields. You must also take nine advanced courses (27 hours) – at the 3000 or 4000 level. These must include at least two upper-level courses in each of two subfields and one more in a third subfield. 4000-level subfield courses are more specific in their subject matter, but are not inherently more difficult than the 3000-level courses. You may also take one or more special studies courses – Internship, Directed Readings, and Distinction Thesis – at the discretion of individual instructors. The total requirement for the major is thirty-three (33) semester hours. No course in which the grade is lower than C-minus can count toward the major, nor will pass/fail grades. In each of our courses, we assign a significant amount of writing, and we give you prompt feedback on that work. Learn more Public Policy, B.A. The public policy major is an interdisciplinary program in economics and political science designed to provide students with the analytical skills and historical context to understand and address contemporary policy issues. The major in public policy is useful as preparation for work in government and business and as preparation for postgraduate study in law, public policy, and the social sciences. Learn more Undergraduate Programs Majors Minors Courses Distinction Program Funding and Awards Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube