Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube Research Find what’s possible at the edge of discovery and innovation. Breakthroughs Happen Here Groundbreakers come to the University of Pittsburgh to find answers and ask bold new questions. A research powerhouse by any measure, we are consistently among the top U.S. institutions for National Institutes of Health funding. Here, you’ll find students diving into research in their first term. The prerequisites? Curiosity, a solid work ethic, and a sense of purpose. Innovation & Entrepreneurship Pitt empowers faculty members and students to innovate, create businesses and transform society and their own careers. Innovation & Entrepreneurship Partnerships Student Opportunities Student Research Undergrads can begin conducting hands-on research with expert faculty members as early as their first year at Pitt. Undergraduate Graduate and Professional Postdoctoral Training Libraries The University's libraries stand at the center of intellectual life on campus. Pitt is a member of the prestigious Association of Research Libraries. University Library System Health Sciences Library System Barco Law Library Here, progress is always in progress. Pitt people are developing cures and therapies for diseases, working with communities to battle the opioid epidemic, supporting small businesses, and building the future of advanced manufacturing—among many other contributions. Research News Expand Tile $850M+ in Research $850M+ in Research Pitt brings more than $850 million external research funding to Pennsylvania each year. Expand Tile PA Economic Impact $4.2B PA Economic Impact $4.2B Pitt generates billions of dollars for Pennsylvania's economy. Expand Tile 83+ Companies in Five Years 83+ Companies in Five Years Pitt spinoff companies lead the way in life-changing inventions and innovations. Expand Tile No. 11 in NIH Funding No. 11 in NIH Funding Pitt ranks among the nation's great universities in National Institutes of Health funding. Expand Tile 4 MacArthur 'Genius' Awards 4 MacArthur 'Genius' Awards Awarded to individuals who have shown extraordinary originality and dedication in their creative pursuits. Expand Tile 5 National Medal of Science Winners 5 National Medal of Science Winners Bestowed by the President of the United States to outstanding contributors to science and engineering. Expand Tile 8 National Academy of Sciences Members 8 National Academy of Sciences Members Created by President Lincoln, the NAS provides independent advice to the government on science and technology. Research News Innovation & Research Saving Patients Who Had Run Out of Options Bacteria-killing viruses discovered by Pitt researchers are saving patients with deadly infections that were unresponsive to antibiotics. Innovation & Research The Future Is Closer Than You Think Pitt researchers are fighting COVID-19 by questioning conventional wisdom and finding new approaches to research, treatment and vaccine development. Watch how we are pursuing preventions and treatments in “Research to Save Lives,” part of the Pitt Perspectives on Navigating a Pandemic series. Innovation & Research Adding Sense of Touch Improves Control of Robotic Arm In a paper published in the journal Science, a team of bioengineers from the University of Pittsburgh Rehab Neural Engineering Labs describes how adding brain stimulation that evokes tactile sensations makes it easier for the operator to manipulate a brain-controlled robotic arm. Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Get more news at Pittwire Dive deeper into Pitt Research: Centers and Institutes Research Offices Research Breakthroughs Pitt Research Spaces Expand Tile Human Engineering Lab Located in Pittsburgh’s Bakery Square business park, the Human Engineering Research Laboratories (HERL) is dedicated to improving the mobility and function of people with disabilities. More research spaces » Expand Tile Pymatuning Lab The Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology (PLE) is a year-round facility on the shores Pymatuning Lake that is part of Pitt's Department of Biological Sciences. More research spaces » Expand Tile Center for Vaccine Research The Center for Vaccine Research (CVR) is composed of the Vaccine Research Laboratory and the Regional Biocontainment Laboratory. The CVR engages a cross-section of scientists in infectious disease research. More research spaces » Expand Tile Nanoscale Facilities The Nanoscale Fabrication and Characterization Facility (NFCF) is supported by the integrated, multidisciplinary organization, the Gertrude E. and John M. Petersen Institute of NanoScience and Engineering. More research spaces » Expand Tile Center for Sports Medicine Research conducted by the center’s sports medicine specialists—including Pitt professors—helps to develop better methods of treating and preventing sports-related injuries and diseases. More research spaces » Expand Tile McGowan Institute The McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine is a facility for leading scientists and clinical faculty working in the areas of tissue engineering, cellular therapies, and artificial and biohybrid organ devices. More research spaces » Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube