Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Trustee-level ad hoc committee develops principles to govern decisions about naming, renaming and changing iconography Denise Valenti, Office of Communications April 30, 2021, noon Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications The Ad Hoc Committee on Principles to Govern Renaming and Changes to Campus Iconography, a trustee-level committee charged with developing general principles to govern questions about when and under what circumstances it might be appropriate for the University to remove or contextualize the names and representations of individuals present on the Princeton campus, finalized its recommendations to the University’s Board of Trustees in late March. The board adopted the committee’s report and recommendations in April. The report is available in full on the ad hoc committee’s website. The report outlines five overarching principles for the naming, renaming and changing of iconography on Princeton’s campus. It also includes four criteria to help guide specific decisions about renaming and changing campus iconography. The committee noted that the principles and criteria are intended to serve as guidelines for the board’s use and that the board will need to exercise judgment to apply them to cases in the future. The committee also recognized that there are two types of namings on the University campus — those that recognize gifts and those that serve to honor a namesake’s legacy — and explained that the principles and criteria will apply in different ways to these two types of namings. The principles and criteria are: 1. Naming decisions must be grounded in the University’s mission and core values. Decisions about naming, renaming and changing campus iconography must be made with due regard for the University’s educational mission and core values, including its commitments to teaching and research of unsurpassed quality, to truth-seeking, and to inclusivity. 2. Naming decisions complement and supplement other initiatives to achieve equity and inclusivity. Names and symbols matter to Princeton’s campus and community, but the addition, removal or contextualization of names and images are neither the sole nor the primary ways by which the University fulfills its aspirations to become more fully inclusive to people from all backgrounds. 3. A decision to rename should be exceptional. Renaming should occur only under exceptional circumstances, informed and constrained by established and clear criteria. As it explained in its report, the ad hoc committee used criteria largely drawn from the report of the Yale Committee on Principles to Establish Renaming. These criteria are: Is a central part of the legacy of the namesake fundamentally at odds with the mission of the University? Was the relevant central part of the legacy significantly contested in the time and place in which the namesake lived, or significantly out of step with the standards of the namesake’s time? Did the University, at the time of a naming, honor a namesake for reasons that are fundamentally at odds with the mission of the University? Does a building or program whose namesake has a central legacy fundamentally at odds with the University’s mission play a substantial role in forming community at the University? The committee noted that any or all of the proposed criteria may be relevant to a particular case. 4. The University should have a bold vision for diversifying campus narratives and imagery. The University should take a bold, proactive approach to recounting all dimensions of its history, diversifying its institutional narratives, and broadening the range of images that it displays. 5. Renaming decisions should be governed by a clear, inclusive and rigorous process. The processes by which the University considers questions about particular names or images should be clearly articulated and publicly known, open to community input and informed by scholarship. “It has been a true honor to work alongside the engaged and thoughtful group of trustees, faculty, administrators, students and alumni who served on the committee over the course of the academic year,” said University Trustee Craig Robinson, Class of 1983, who chaired the ad hoc committee. “The issues before the committee were challenging and important, and I am grateful to the many members of the University community who shared their views with us in listening sessions and through the committee’s website. Input from University faculty, students, staff and alumni, as well as outside scholars, was critical to our deliberations, and it helped us to develop a set of principles and criteria that we hope will serve Princeton well.” The ad hoc committee was formed in September 2020 in response to a charge from board Chair Louise (Weezie) Sams, Class of 1979, and President Christopher L. Eisgruber to develop principles that can guide the board’s decision-making about renaming and changing iconography over the long term, and to propose processes that can be used to bring related issues or recommendations to the board’s attention. In a September 2, 2020 letter to the community, Eisgruber noted that the ad hoc committee’s work would take place “in conjunction with other ongoing efforts to diversify Princeton’s institutional narrative and strengthen the welcoming character of the campus.” The ad hoc committee was composed of 11 trustees including Robinson and augmented by members of the Council of the Princeton University Community Committee on Naming, including two administrators, four faculty members, two undergraduate students, one graduate student and one alumnus. Committee members heard a broad range of views and perspectives on the issues at hand, holding 14 listening sessions that were attended by more than 150 members of the Princeton community, including students, faculty, staff and alumni. The committee also established a website through which members of the University community could share their perspectives. Approximately 50 comments were submitted through the webform. The committee also solicited scholarly input, meeting with an interdisciplinary group of scholars with expertise in fields including ethics, history and psychology for a discussion about its charge. The committee urged the University to accelerate its efforts to add to and expand the range of names, images and symbols on campus that illustrate Princeton’s institutional narratives. These include taking a proactive approach to updating University pictures, imagery and displays; continued expansion of the names represented on campus; support for scholarly initiatives, such as “the Princeton and Slavery Project”; and efforts to ensure that when names or people are used to tell the story of Princeton’s past, it is done so impartially. In its conclusion, the ad hoc committee noted that, like decisions about naming and renaming, the proposed principles and criteria are the product of a particular moment in time and are shaped by the current context on Princeton’s campus and beyond. It encouraged the board to revisit the principles and recommendation in five to 10 years, at which point, informed by experience, it could reflect upon their usefulness and consider whether revisions would be beneficial for the University. Since the Board of Trustees adopted the Report of the Trustee Committee on Woodrow Wilson’s Legacy at Princeton in April 2016, the University has undertaken several important initiatives to expand the narrative of Princeton’s history and foster an inclusive sense of place on campus. The Campus Iconography Committee was formed in 2016 to transform public spaces on campus and honorifically name interior and exterior spaces in ways that reflect and connect with the diversity of the University community. The website, History and Sense of Place, represents the evolution of the work of the Campus Iconography Committee. The Portraiture Nominations Committee was formed in 2017 to suggest additions to Princeton’s portrait collections. The portraits commissioned by the University highlight the broad diversity of the Princeton community and recognize significant contributions made by members of the community. Portraits will continue to be added to the University’s collections. In June 2020, the decision by the Board of Trustees to remove Woodrow Wilson’s name from the School of Public and International Affairs was a landmark moment in Princeton’s history informed by earlier discussions of and confrontations with Wilson’s legacy. The ad hoc committee agreed with this decision based on the criteria it has developed for future naming decisions. Related Stories Committee on Principles to Govern Renaming and Changes to Campus Iconography seeks community input Read more An update and overview of Princeton University’s ongoing efforts to combat systemic racism Read more Charge to the Ad Hoc Committee on Principles to Govern Renaming and Changes to Campus Iconography Read more An update on Princeton’s ongoing efforts to address systemic racism Read more University takes steps to diversify naming of buildings and campus iconography Read more Trustees call for expanded commitment to diversity and inclusion Read more New partnerships, programs and positions are part of Princeton’s ongoing commitment to combat systemic racism Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice