Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program About Steven A. Denning Home » Centers & Initiatives » Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program » About Steven A. Denning Menu Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News In 2007, Scheller alumnus Steven A. Denning (IM, 1970) committed $5 million over five years to Georgia Tech’s Technology & Management Program, which today enrolls a highly selective group of undergraduate majors from the Colleges of Business, Computing, and Engineering. In 2010, he made a commitment to provide the College with a second $5 million gift that was matched from a $20 million challenge fund provided by Mr. Ernest Scheller; this elevated total funding of the program to $15 million. This additional funding of the program, now called the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program, provided the necessary resources to create an academic environment that sets a global standard in interdisciplinary education for future leaders in an increasingly innovative world. This remarkable funding will ensure the Program's continued excellence, and will enable both its enrichment and its expansion. This program is doing an excellent job of preparing students to secure the most competitive jobs upon graduation and demonstrate superior performance in their careers. -Steven A. Denning Steven A. Denning is the Chairman of General Atlantic LLC. He joined the firm in 1980 and built the organization into one of the leading global equity firms with over $15 billion under management and offices in Greenwich, New York, Palo Alto, São Paulo, London, Dusseldorf, Hong Kong and Mumbai. He is actively involved in a number of private and public information technology companies in the United States, Europe, and Asia, including Eclipsys Corporation (NASDAQ: ECLP), Hewitt Associates (NYSE: HEW) IHS, Inc. (NYSE: IHS), and Genpact (NYSE: G). He is also a director of The Thomson Reuters Corporation (NYSE: TRI; TSX: TRI). Denning joined General Atlantic after working with McKinsey & Company. He received an MBA from Stanford Business School in 1978, and served six years in the U.S Navy, where he also obtained an MS degree from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. He received a BS from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1970. He has served two terms as a member of the Georgia Tech Advisory Board (GTAB), and he and his wife, Roberta, are Honorary Chairs of the Campaign Steering Committee for the Public Phase of the campaign. He is also a member of the President's Council Giving Club and the College of Computing Advisory Board. Mr. Denning is also a member of The Board of Trustees of Stanford University, The Brookings Institute, the Connecticut Science Center, and the Advisory Board of the School of Economics and Management at Tsinghua University. He is Vice Chairman of the Board of the American Museum of Natural History, and a member of the Board of Directors of The Nature Conservancy. He is also Emeritus Chairman and a member the Stanford Graduate School of Business Advisory Board, the Council on Foreign Relations, the McKinsey Investment Office Advisory Council, and the Board of Governors of the Partnership for Public Service. He was formerly a member of the Board of Trustees for the Georgia Tech Foundation and the Cancer Research Institute. Mr. Denning's visit on February 22, 2014 to meet with Class of 2014 capstone project students. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures