Skip to main content ISU Index Menu ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Viticulture Main menu Main Menu Home Publications Cold Climate Cultivars FAQ's Newsletter Media Partners Wineries Map Weekly Weather Station Reports August 17 to August 23 2020.pdf August 10 to August 16 2020.pdf August 3 to August 9 2020.pdf July 27 to August 2 2020.pdf Older Reports Popular Extension Publications Midwest Fruit Pest Management Guide Targeted Pest Management: Phenological Growth Guide for Grapevines Climate, Weather and Wine Grapes A Review of Cold Climate Grape Cultivars Ensuring Food Safety in the Vineyard: Wine Grapes Managing Spotted Winged Drosophila in Commercial Fruit Production FAQ's Is there a magic potion I can spray on my grapes to give them super freeze prevention strength? Question: Is there something I can spray on my plants to provide protection during late spring freeze events such as potassium, sugar, or carbohydrates? Answer: The simple answer is no, there is not something that can be sprayed on plants to give them protection from late spring freezes. However, there are all sorts of trials and testimonials using foliar potassium (Nutri-K, Agro-K), carbohydrates... Continue Reading Answer Can row covers be used to protect my grapes during a spring freeze? Question: Can row covers be used to protect my grapes during a spring freeze? Answer: Spunbon polyester row covers, such as Agribon™ or Reemay®, act as blankets which slows the rate of heat loss from the soil. Row covers protect plants by trapping heat released from the soil and are available in several weights and... Continue Reading Answer Can I control Japanese Beetle grubs now to eliminate them during the summer? Question: Can I control Japanese Beetle grubs now in the soil to prevent them from being a problem during the summer? Answer: No, you cannot prevent Japanese beetle during the season by controlling grubs in your sod during the spring. Japanese beetles are very mobile and will find your vineyard even if you treated for the larvae that are in your soil now. ... Continue Reading Answer Podcast Agriculture and Natural Resources Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 (800) 262-3804 Iowa State University | Policies State & National Extension Partners Site Index | Site Map Viticulture Horticulture Hall Ames, IA 50011 Contacts Libsyn YouTube