Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Primary Care Primary Care Medical Services provides a full range of health care services on campus, including the following: Acne care Cold and virus care Allergy desensitization shots Men’s health Women’s health Transgender health STI testing Travel assessments and medication Tobacco cessation Vaccinations Laboratory tests Nutrition services Wart removal Weight management If you are enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan, your primary care provider is your Columbia Health Medical Services or Counseling and Psychological Services clinician. Students can schedule an appointment with their Columbia Health primary care provider to receive any of these services. Telehealth consultations Students who are on campus or in New York State can also schedule telehealth appointments instead of an in-person appointment through the Patient Portal or by calling 212-854-7426. If you are currently outside of New York State, please call 212-854-7426 so our health services assistants can help schedule an appointment with one of our providers or facilitate a referral to a telehealth provider licensed in your state. Radiology Services X-rays and other types of diagnostic imaging are usually performed at near by imaging centers. The cost to the student depends on their insurance coverage. Insurance Coverage Medical Services serves as the primary care provider which covers all visits, including urgent and routine care, for all students who carry the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan and also for all students who have paid the full Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. There is no limit to the frequency or total number of on-campus medical visits. For visits to outside specialists, students should arrange a consultation with their primary care provider, who may offer a referral. Outside specialists within the Aetna network, if needed, are covered under the Columbia Plan. A referral is required for all visits to outside providers and is required in advance of the visit, so plan accordingly. To obtain a referral, students should schedule an appointment to be evaluated by their primary care physician. Referrals are written at the discretion of providers at the time of the visit, based on medical condition. Students who have their own medical insurance will be covered for medical services as determined by their individual carrier. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close