Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close HOME Admission sites On-Campus Visitor Policies In This Section Admission Visit On-Campus Visitor Policies Contact Admission Admission Visitor Policies We can't wait to see you! Eagle Eye Campus Visits will be available to prospective students and will include both an information session and an student-led campus tour. We have incorporated event policies and guidelines to prioritize the safety of our staff, visitors, and the University community. We expect visitors to abide by all guidelines and visitor policies. All visitors who attend events at Boston College must be fully vaccinated two weeks prior to their scheduled visit. Negative PCR tests will not be accepted. Proof of COVID-19 vaccination can be shown in the following forms - and must be presented with a valid photo ID: • A CDC COVID-19 vaccination card • A digital image of your CDC COVID-19 vaccination card • An image of any official immunization record featuring COVID-19 vaccination record • A City of Boston-designated app Masks or face coverings are optional while indoors. Please see below for a list of FAQ that will help you prepare for your visit. Directions to Campus & Parking Visitor Policies, Safety Guidelines, and FAQ Pre-Visit Arriving to Campus/Check-In During Your Visit Post-Visit Walk-In Visitors All visitors must register for a campus visit in advance; walk-in visitors will not be accommodated for an Eagle Eye Campus Visit. Those who arrive on campus without a confirmed appointment will be invited to take our self-guided audio tour, which can be downloaded to your phone in advance of your visit. Healthy Staff and Students Boston College will require all students, faculty and staff to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 before participating in any on-campus activity related to the 2021-2022 year. All Boston College Undergraduate Admission staff and student volunteers are fully vaccinated at this time. Face Coverings Masks or face coverings are optional while indoors. COVID-19 Vaccination Record All visitors will be asked to show proof of vaccination with a corresponding valid ID to attend a campus visit. If anyone in the traveling party or household tests positive for COVID-19, displays symptoms of COVID-19, or has been exposed to COVID-19 within two weeks of their scheduled visit, we ask that you please stay home. Massachusetts COVID-19 Travel Advisory All visitors are advised to follow the Massachusetts COVID-19 Travel Advisory. Arriving to Campus/Check-in The Office of Undergraduate Admission is located in Devlin Hall. Parking instructions and directions will be shared in your visit confirmation and reminder email. Families who arrive early should check in at Devlin Hall no more than 20 minutes prior to their scheduled tour time; please do not arrive earlier. Signs will direct visitors to the check-in location. Late Arrivals Campus visits will start on time to avoid congregating. Please plan ample time for travel (we recommend adding 20 to 30 minutes on to your travel time), as we will likely not be able to reschedule families who arrive late. If all other sessions are full, late arriving registrants will forfeit their visit time. Visit Details Campus visits will take place both indoors and outdoors. The information session portion of the visit will be indoors. The campus tour portion of the visit will take place outdoors and in select buildings. Masks or face coverings are optional. Social Distancing The information session auditorium has been set to allow for social distancing. Visitors must also respond to additional safety directives made by tour guides or staff members. Tour Conclusion Following your tour, Undergraduate Admission staff will be available to answer any questions that you may have. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College