Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs Campus Resources Texas Tech University offers a variety of services that are offered either at no cost or at a minimal cost. These campus services are here to support you during your collegiate experience. Whether you are in search of a campus organization, financial aid, IT support, assistance during a difficult time, or during an illness, these resources are designed with the student in mind. The staff is dedicated to the holistic development of all students. List of Campus Resources Click on a campus resource to know more. Campus Life The Center for Campus Life promotes each student's learning experience by focusing on student transitions and connecting you to the University and campus traditions through leadership and involvement opportunities. Whether you are looking for Red Raider Orientation, a list of student organizations, Greek Life, or leadership opportunities, the center for campus life is a great place to start. Learn More >> Parking Services University Parking Services provides guidance and assistance to the campus community and public on all parking-related needs in a timely and efficient manner; promotes compliance with the University's parking regulations through a general understanding of its parking system; and demonstrates an overall attitude of serving, caring and helping all whom we serve. Learn More >> Scholarships There are several scholarships that you may be eligible to receive. Please view the scholarship website to understand the specific requirements. Learn More >> Student Counseling Center Whether this is your first semester or you're a few months from graduation, the transition from the demands of military life to those of the university usually creates a significant amount of stress. From hanging up the "cammies" to putting on the "civies," setting down the "ruc sac" to picking up the book bag, and trading in your "deuce gear" for pens and paper, leaving the all-encompassing "Green Machine" for the classroom is no easy task. Many of you are returning from war-zones; the amount of stress from that experience added to what you must already face is, often, immeasurable and overwhelming. Learn More >> Student Legal Services We provide legal advice, counsel and limited representation for currently enrolled students at TTU/TTUHSC. Our licensed attorneys can advise and/or represent students in variety of legal areas including, but not limited to: landlord/tenant disputes, expunctions, misdemeanors, name changes, essential needs licenses, and small claims consumer disputes. Learn More >> Student Disability Services Because we know the transition from active duty to a college classroom can be challenging, Student Disability Services would like to make this transition as smooth as possible. Resources to accommodate a disability can open up educational opportunities. Learn More >> TTU Chapter of S.A.L.U.T.E. The S.A.L.U.T.E. (Service, Academics, Leadership, Unity, Tribute and Excellence) Veterans National Honor Society recognizes student veterans who excel in the classroom. Please review the website for eligibility requirements. If you think you are eligible, contact luke.stone@ttu.edu. Learn More >> Veterans Association at Texas Tech The purpose of the Veterans Association to provide a sense of camaraderie and community outreach for United States military veterans, those who are currently serving or under contractual obligation in the United States military, and those patriots who support the United States military in any way, shape, or form. Learn More >> IT Services The Information Technology (IT) Division is committed to providing the highest possible level of services to the campus community. If you need assistance connecting with the campus WiFi, information about computer programs that students can download for little to no cost, or general questions about access to your eRaider, contact IT services. Learn More >> Registrar The Office of the Registrar promotes each student's learning experience by collecting, preserving, and protecting academic records of Texas Tech University students and providing accessibility to those records to authorized individuals or entities in accordance with university, state, and federal laws and guidelines. Learn More >> Student Affairs Student Affairs promotes the advancement of knowledge, focusing especially learning that takes place beyond the classroom environment. By challenging students to become active participants and members of the university community, we develop ethical and innovative leaders who are better prepared for success as life-long learners and ardent Red Raiders Learn More >> Student Health Services Student Health Services will be recognized by students and parents as an exemplary provider of comprehensive, cost-effective, and compassionate medical care and health education to students. Learn More >> Student Resolution Center The Student Resolution Center at the Texas Tech University provides informal, neutral, and confidential dispute resolution services. We assist people with interpersonal misunderstandings or disputes as well as those with concerns about academic or administrative issues. We attempt to help individuals resolve their concerns fairly and, if possible, informally. Learn More >> University Career Center University Career Center promotes each student's learning experience by: providing centralized resources for Texas Tech student and alumni career development, and by assisting employers in recruiting Texas Tech students and alumni. Learn More >> First Generation Transition and Mentoring Programs First Generation Transition & Mentoring Programs (FGTMP) seeks to support undergraduate students that identify as first-generation in college as they pursue their undergraduate degree. Learn More >> Texas Tech University Advising The Department of Texas Tech University Advising exists to engage, equip, empower, and encourage students (and their families) to explore and excel in their educational goals and beyond. Learn More >> The Learning Center The Learning Center's mission is to empower and encourage students in their pursuit of achieving academic success within a safe and inclusive learning environment. The Learning Center works to enhance the academic success of all currently enrolled Texas Tech Students by offering a variety of free services: Online Tutoring, Drop-In Peer Tutoring, and a Study Lounge. Learn More >> Writing Center The University Writing Center offers thirty minute, one-on-one tutorials to undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff in an effort to support its belief that writing serves as one of the primary means for learning and communicating. Learn More >> Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:12 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index