Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Pregnancy Resources Home About Pastoral Counseling Pregnancy Resources Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together The Boston College community is here to support students expecting a child. We hold the emotional, physical, and spiritual well-being of a woman, the child, and those who care about them, in a strong network of support. You are not alone. If you or your partner is expecting a child, BC has many resources to assist you in continuing and completing your degree. Kate Daly of the Volunteer and Service Learning Center, and Rick Rossi of Campus Ministry are pregnancy support advocates and are available for safe, non-judgmental conversations and assistance throughout. All conversations can be kept private. As a Jesuit Catholic university that supports life, Boston College is committed to your well-being as well as the child’s. We are here for you. Partners & friends: If a friend is pregnant, we are here to support you as well. Those journeying with someone they care for during a pregnancy have an important role and can often have mixed feeling or are unsure how to care for their loved one. We encourage you to contact any of our pregnancy support advocates to talk through your questions and concerns. You may also find resources mentioned below helpful to you as well. Mission Your Health Housing Academic Planning Financial Planning Self-care Parenting Boston College is a Jesuit Catholic institution. Consistent with its Catholic heritage, it is committed to a mission that supports all life at all times. As such, we compassionately and proactively support our pregnant and parenting students on campus. Where life is involved, the service of charity must be profoundly consistent. It cannot tolerate bias and discrimination, for human life is sacred and inviolable at every stage and in every situation…Every Christian community, with a renewed sense of responsibility, must continue to write this history through various kinds of pastoral and social activity. To this end, appropriate and effective programmes of support for new life must be implemented, with special closeness to mothers who, even without the help of the father, are not afraid to bring their child into the world and to raise it. [8] Pope John Paul II Evangelium vitae, 1995 University Health Services provides free pregnancy tests on a walk-in basis. Health Services is located at 2150 Commonwealth Ave. Residence Hall. You may also wish to make an appointment to see Yolanda Hobin, one of the Nurse Practitioners who provide women’s health evaluations. To do so, call 617-552-2225. If you are in fact pregnant, Health Services can also help arrange referrals with off-campus physicians, provide nutritional guidance, and answer any health-related questions you may have about your pregnancy. During pregnancy: It is important to us that all Boston College students feel fully welcome and part of this community. Pregnant students can remain in their residence hall throughout their pregnancy. Residential Life staff will assist you in making this new reality as comfortable as possible in every way. After giving birth: The residence hall structure is not equipped to provide housing to students caring for a child, and so the Office of Residential Life is committed to working with students to explore suitable housing options near BC. Jessica Graf is available to meet before or after you meet with a pregnancy support advocate. Jessica Graf, Assistant Director 617-552-3060 | jessica.graf@bc.edu Expecting a child does not mean you have to give up on pursuing your degree. You are welcome to remain a student at Boston College throughout your pregnancy and while parenting. The pregnancy support advocates can help you think through the questions and concerns you may want to address with your academic dean based on the particulars of your pregnancy. Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Michael Martin, Senior Class 617-552-9259 | michael.martin.2@bc.edu Rafael Luna, Junior Class 617-552-2800 | rafael.luna@bc.edu Treseanne Ainsworth, Sophomore Class 617-552-8485 | treseanne.ainsworth.1@bc.edu Joseph Desciak, Freshman Class and Director, Academic Advising Center 617-552-9259 | joseph.desciak@bc.edu Carroll School of Management Erica Graf, Assistant Dean, Undergraduate Program 617-552-0462 | erica.graf@bc.edu Connell School of Nursing Anya Villatoro, Assistant Director, Undergraduate Programs 617-552-3277 | anya.villatoro@bc.edu MaryBeth Crowley, Graduate Programs and Admissions Specialist 617-552-2079 Lynch School of Education Julia Whitcavitch-Devoy, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Student Services 617 552-4200 | julia.whitcavich@bc.edu School of Social Work Teresa Touhey Schirmer, Associate Dean, Student Experience 617-552-4762 | teresa.schirmer@bc.edu Woods College of Advancing Studies Graduate students should contact their Program Directors and undergraduate students should contact their academic advisors. If they do not know who that person is, they can call the Woods College (617-552-3900) for information regarding the appropriate person to contact. Some pregnant students may wish to explore a temporary leave of absence as a useful option in order to complete their degree. Taking a pregnancy leave of absence is entirely up to the student, and your academic dean can talk through that process as well. Should you choose to take a leave of absence, your tuition, room, and board charges may be adjusted, depending on the date of your withdrawal. Your Financial Aid Associate can explain to you any possible impact to your financial aid package and help you understand the process. Finally, Student Services will confirm that your academic and financial arrangements have been properly recorded – and will ensure the confidentiality of all of your records. Mary French, University Registrar 617-552-3100 | mary.french@bc.edu Mary S. McGranahan, Director of Financial Aid 617-552-3325 | mary.mcgranahan@bc.edu Pastoral Care and Counseling Rick Rossi is a licensed clinical social worker and a campus minister, offering confidential, clinical support to any students in need. Rick Rossi, Campus Minister 617-552-6592 | rick.rossi@bc.edu McElroy 227 University Counseling Services University Counseling Services is able to assist you in managing emotional and relational impacts on your life as a student and parent. You can make an appointment with University Counseling Services by calling 617-552-3310. Dr. Craig Burns, Director craig.burns@bc.edu Gasson 001 Campus Ministry All Campus Ministers are available to speak with BC students in privacy about any issues and will offer caring, compassionate support. McElroy 233 617-552-3475 Boston College is committed to providing support for mothers returning to work and will strive to provide adequate, functional space to meet a nursing mother's needs on a timely basis. The Office for Institutional Diversity offers lactation support information. The Women's Center has a small selection of books on parenting available. You are welcome to stop by the Women's Center, located in Maloney 441 to look through our resources or talk with a staff member. Katie Dalton, Director 617-552-6919 | kathryn.dalton@bc.edu After the baby is born, childcare will need to be arranged during class time. Kate Daly and Rick Rossi, pregnancy support advocates can help you consider your options. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College