Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Aging Aging Now that public health has added 30 years to human life expectancy, it’s time to create the social systems that can optimize longer lives. Featured Article New Global Aging Index Gauges Health and Wellbeing of Aging Populations Faculty in Aging Bin Cheng Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Guohua Li Professor Epidemiology Julie Herbstman Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Joseph Lee Professor at CUMC Epidemiology (in the Sergievsky Center) at the Columbia University Medical Center Joyce Pressley Associate Professor Epidemiology and Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Medical Center Jeri Nieves Professor of Clinical Epidemiology John Rowe Julius B. Richmond Professor of Health Policy and Aging Health Policy and Management Kavita Sivaramakrishnan Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Linda Fried Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health and DeLamar Professor of Public Health Practice, Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Lynn Tepper Clinical Professor Behavioral Science (In Sociomedical Sciences and Dentistry) Mary Northridge Professor Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Dental Medicine) Mady Hornig Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Myrna Weissman Diane Goldman Kemper Family Professor Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Norman Kleiman Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Ruth Finkelstein Sharon Schwartz Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Thelma Mielenz Assistant Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Xinhua Liu Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Esteban Calvo Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in CAC) Ari Markenson Adjunct Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management Vegard Skirbekk Professor Population and Family Health (In the Columbia Aging Center) May Hua Assistant Professor Anesthesiology (In Epidemiology) at the Columbia University Medical Center Andrea Baccarelli Leon Hess Professor Environmental Health Sciences Ana Navas-Acien Professor Environmental Health Sciences Harold Pincus Professor Psychiatry (in Health Policy and Management) John McHugh Assistant Professor Health Policy & Management Pia Mauro Assistant Professor Epidemiology Brandon Pearson Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Sarah Tom Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in Neurology and the Gertrude H Sergievsky Center) Yian Gu Assistant Professor of Neurological Sciences (in Neurology, Epidemiology, the G.H. Sergievsky Center and the Taub Institute) Daniel Belsky Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In CAC) Adina Zeki Al Hazzouri Assistant Professor Epidemiology (In CAC) Priya Palta Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Assistant Professor of Medical Science (In Medicine) Ka Kahe Tilden-Weger-Bieler Professor Obstetrics & Gynecology and Epidemiology Steven Katz Adjunct Assistant Professor Health Policy and Management News & Features Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later Life A new study by researchers at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the Robert Butler Columbia Aging Center, and Université Paris-Dauphine–PSL, found that having three or more versus two children may have a negative effect on late-life cognition. This effect was strong Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West In a study at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center researchers have devised a new metric, the Health-Adjusted Dependency Ratio (HADR) as an alternative to the most commonly used aging metric, the Old-Age Dependency Ratio (OAD Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship Achievements Dean Linda P. Fried has been awarded the Association of American Physicians’ 2022 George M. Kober Medal, in recognition of her groundbreaking contributions to the science of healthy aging, particularly the science defining the clinical syndrome of frailty and for prevention of frailty, disab See All Just Published Snyder-Mackler N, Burger JR, Gaydosh L, ... Belsky DW, et al. Social determinants of health and survival in humans and other animals. Science. 2020;368(6493):eaax9553. doi:10.1126/science.aax9553. View abstract. Caunca MR, Odden MC, Glymour MM, ...Zeki Al Hazzouri A, et al. Association of Racial Residential Segregation Throughout Young Adulthood and Cognitive Performance in Middle-aged Participants in the CARDIA Study [published online ahead of print, 2020 May 4]. JAMA Neurol. 2020;e200860. doi:10.1001/jamaneurol.2020.0860. View abstract. Dzau VJ, Inouye SK, Rowe JW, Finkelman E, Yamada T. Enabling Healthful Aging for All - The National Academy of Medicine Grand Challenge in Healthy Longevity. N Engl J Med. 2019;381(18):1699‐1701. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1912298. View abstract. Hoogendijk EO, Afilalo J, Ensrud KE, Kowal P, Onder G, Fried LP. Frailty: implications for clinical practice and public health. Lancet. 2019;394(10206):1365‐1375. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(19)31786-6. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center The Center seeks to develop the knowledge base necessary to inform aging-related health and social policy. Imprints Center for Genetic and Environmental Lifecourse Studies Dedicated to deepening our understanding of the origins and unfolding of health and disease over the life course. Age Smart Employer An initiative of the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center Imprints Center Genetic and Environmental Lifecourse Studies Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact MyGoals for Healthy Aging Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers