Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu True Blue Future Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact True Blue Future Sign In Sign Up Virtual Tour Memphis Take a look inside some of our academic programs in our virtual tour of the campus. Home True Blue Future Your True Blue Future Deciding where to complete your graduate studies is a big decision. The University of Memphis offers Master's degrees, Doctoral degrees, an Education Specialist degree, and graduate certificates, all designed to meet your needs. We have 26 doctoral programs, masters programs in 54 major areas, and 34 graduate certificate programs. The Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law also awards the Juris Doctor degree. Your search for the right graduate degree program for you begins here. Sign up with us to find out more information about your program of choice! Several of our programs are nationally ranked: Audiology is ranked 6th and Speech Pathology is ranked 12th nationally by US News & World Report 2008. Both programs are in the School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. Rehabilitation Counseling in the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences is ranked 13th in the country by US News & World Report 2008. Psychology in the College of Arts and Sciences is ranked 12th in the country in the acquisition of external funding by the National Science Foundation. Discrete Mathematics and Combinatorics in the College of Arts & Sciences is ranked 14th in the country by America's Best Graduate Schools . The Ph.D. program in Rhetoric in the Department of Communication, located in the College of Communication & Fine Arts, has been ranked 13th in the nation by the National Communication Association. The Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index has ranked faculty members' scholarly output in "School Psychology" 4th in Social and Behavioral Sciences. Clinical Psychology in the College of Arts & Sciences is ranked 71st by US News and World Report 2008. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/7/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.