Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Current Graduate Students Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Conference Reimbursement Conference Funding In addition to adherence to the Boston College travel policy, please follow these guidelines very carefully to receive reimbursement for pre-approved conference-related expenses. Incomplete files or files not in compliance with these guidelines will be rejected. Reimbursement requests must be received during the same fiscal/academic year in which the conference took place and must be submitted no later than 30 days after the completion of travel. Students in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Connell School of Nursing, and Lynch School of Education may receive funding for one conference per academic year (June 1–May 31), with prior authorization from GSAS Associate Dean, Candace Hetzner. **Please note: Beginning June 2017, we will no longer fund meals for conference travel.** STUDENTS PRESENTING Students presenting at a conference may request reimbursement for expenses related to said conference by completing the steps below. The maximum reimbursement is $250 for LSOE and CSON students and $350 for GSAS students. STUDENTS ATTENDING, NOT PRESENTING Students attending a conference but not presenting may request reimbursement for conference-related expenses by completing the steps below. The maximum reimbursement is $50 for LSOE and CSON students and $150 for GSAS students. REIMBURSEMENT GUIDELINES Prior to the Conference Students must submit the Conference Participants Form to receive approval from Dean Hetzner. (Firefox is the recommended browser for submitting this form. BC Credentials required.) Following the Conference Complete and sign the BC Grad Student Expense Report. Be sure to include your Eagle ID# (first eight digits on your Eagle One Card). No later than 30 days after the completion of travel, approved students should submit the completed form, a copy of the conference program listing your presentation (where applicable), printed email approval from Dean Hetzner, and all original receipts and supporting documents. Tape all loose original receipts to a standard sheet of (8.5" x 11") paper, with your Eagle ID# written on each sheet. DO NOT staple anything. Completed paperwork should be submitted to Gasson 108 unless you are in one of the following departments: Biology - Contact Dina Goodfriend or the A&S Service Center English - Contact Linda Michel Philosophy - Contact Sarah Smith Physics - Contact Jane Carter or the A&S Service Center Psychology - Contact Michael Ring Air, Bus, and Train Travel Original boarding passes and print-out of itinerary are required. If the itinerary does not show the method of payment, you must also provide proof of payment. GSAS does not reimburse for costs related to the purchase of travel/trip insurance. Transportation by Taxi or Public Transportation Original receipts are required. Auto Travel using Personal Car Requires exact street address of destination, original receipts for road tolls and parking, if applicable. Include a print-out of the driving directions of the route you took, with the total miles from start to end. Also, include the names of other BC students who rode with you. Auto Travel using Rental Car Original receipts for rental car, road tolls, etc. Also, include the names of other BC students who rode with you. Meals & Incidentals **Beginning June 2017, we will no longer fund meals for conference travel.** Original receipts are required—including itemized bills and credit card slips—for meals and other related, incidental expenses. GSAS does not pay a per diem for conference-related travel. GSAS does not reimburse for alcohol, entertainment, or other expenses not directly related to the performance of the conference-related travel assignment. Lodging Original hotel statements showing a method of payment and a zero balance are required. Each student should request such a statement in his/her own name. For all reimbursable expenses, we strongly advise against one student's purchasing or paying for other students; doing so makes the reimbursement process even more cumbersome. Other Student Funding For other dean-approved funding, students may request reimbursement by completing the following steps: Complete and sign the BC Grad Student Expense Report. Be sure to include your Eagle ID# (first eight digits on your Eagle One Card). Submit to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Gasson 108, the completed form, original receipts, and any other supporting documents. Tape all original receipts to a standard sheet of (8.5" x 11") paper, with your Eagle ID# written on each sheet. DO NOT staple anything. For travel-related expenses, please follow the guidelines outlined in the section above. You must also attach written approval of your special funding request from your department and/or the dean. Why does Accounts Payable need this paperwork? Boston College follows the IRS Accountable Plan, which requires a business purpose and full documentation for all reimbursed expenses to our employees and students. Under this plan, non-documented expenses become taxable income. How will I receive my reimbursement for conferences or other funding? Students are requested to setup direct deposit for expenses. This is a separate authorization from that done with Human Resources. Please follow this link for the appropriate student direct deposit form. If you do not setup direct deposit, reimbursement checks are usually sent via US Postal Service to your Agora address; otherwise, you will be contacted to pick up your check at Accounts Payable in 129 Lake Street on Brighton Campus. Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College