Skip to Main Content Brown University Judaic Studies Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access Search Judaic Studies Judaic Studies at Brown The Program in Judaic Studies is dedicated to the study of Jewish history, philosophy, literature, language, politics, and religion. Judaic Studies at Brown The Program in Judaic Studies is dedicated to the study of Jewish history, philosophy, literature, language, politics, and religion. Offering an interdisciplinary undergraduate concentration, the program provides students with the opportunity to explore Jewish culture and civilization across the ages. Since Christianity and Islam have deep roots in Judaism and the Western world has been profoundly shaped by a deep and abiding tension with both Jewish religious tradition and the Jewish communities in its midst, the concentration includes the study of interactions between Jews and non-Jews in both the ancient and modern periods. The history and culture of the State of Israel and its place in the Middle East is also a major focus of study. These are all issues with significant contemporary resonance, so the concentration offers its students many new insights on the world in which we live. If you have questions about our program, please contact us via email at Judaic@brown.edu. Academics Undergraduate Our courses cover a wide range of topics related to the study of Jews and Judaism in the disciplines of history, philosophy, religious studies, literary studies, and archaeology. Judaic Studies Courses University and Humanities Courses Hebrew & Biblical Hebrew Courses Concentration Requirements Graduate Graduate study in Hebrew Bible, Ancient Judaism and Jewish thought is housed in the Department of Religious Studies. Visit the Department of Religious Studies Stay Connected with Judaic Studies Facebook Youtube Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook YouTube © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Academics Undergraduate Graduate Research Hebrew People News Events Hebrew Arthur B. and David B. Jacobson Fund BJS Monograph Series Elga K. Stulman Fund for Judaic Studies Ruth and Joseph Moskow Endowment Theodore & Shirley Libby Fund Tisch Family Fund Past Events Videos Awards & Funding Undergraduate Research Awards funded by Elie Hirschfeld '71 Modern Hebrew Award funded by Elie Hirschfeld ’71 Celia & Carl Michaelson Essay Prize Celia & Carl Michaelson Prize for Excellence in Judaic Studies Graduate Student Research Award Monograph Series Publication List For Authors About Open Access This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Judaic Studies at Brown Open details for Judaic Studies at Brown Bookmark this Page