Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Education > Academic Sections/Divisions > Section of Growth and Development > Division of Orthodontics Division of Orthodontics The Division of Orthodontics is dedicated to providing quality dental care to the public with a focus on our surrounding upper Manhattan community; educating students to become proficient, critically thinking practitioners of orthodontics who are capable of functioning in both clinical and academic environments; and cultivating an environment that encourages scholarly activity and research which will improve the health and well-being of the public. Education Predoctoral students begin orthodontic training in their second year of dental school with the preclinical orthodontic lab course. This course consists of introductory lectures and preclinical training in the construction of appliances to correct dental irregularities. In their third year, students will participate in a series of small-group seminars led by orthodontic faculty members, aimed at increasing their diagnostic and treatment planning capabilities. Third-year students undergo Invisalign certification, after which they are permitted to begin treating simple clinical cases with clear aligners. Some students enter a special “Selectives” program in orthodontics designed for students who wish to get more orthodontic exposure to help in making career decisions. In their fourth year, students continue to refine their orthodontic knowledge by analyzing cases presented in online modules. Each case becomes the subject of an in-class discussion with an orthodontic faculty member. The Postdoctoral Orthodontics Program is designed to satisfy all requirements for American Board of Orthodontics certification. The program provides students with intensive, advanced training in specialized biological and clinical sciences through a combination of clinical experience, lectures, seminars, and extensive laboratory coursework, integrated with treatment of various kinds of malocclusions. The Division also offers a Postdoctoral Externship for Foreign Trained Dentists. Patient Care Many of our faculty are practicing dentists with ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry, the faculty practice of the College of Dental Medicine. The Division of Orthodontics also provides treatment for children and adults at the College of Dental Medicine's Teaching Clinics. Graduate dentists in specialty training provide care with the assistance and supervision of faculty specialists. Research Research is an important component of the Division of Orthodontics. Our two active research laboratories are currently focused on: Examining the molecular pathways that regulate temporomandibular joint mechanical loading induced remodeling. It has developed mouse models of mechanical loading induced TMJ remodeling and has extensively characterized how changing the occlusal loading affects TMJ chondrocyte growth and maturation. Examining the role of Estrogen Receptor in mediating the mechanical loading induced TMJ remodeling. Examining the role of angiogenesis and signal transduction in skeletal progenitor cell fate determination during bone/cartilage development, disease and regeneration. Associated Postdoctoral Programs Postdoctoral Orthodontics Program Postdoctoral Externship for Foreign Trained Dentists Faculty Jing Chen, DDS Mildred C. Embree, DMD Christine O'Hea, DMD Sunil Wadhwa, DDS Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top