Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Office of Student Financial Aid Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Types of Aid Scholarships Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost Cost of Attendance Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA Completing the FAFSA Verification Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment America Reads/America Counts America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success Consortium Agreement What is the Consortium Agreement? The consortium agreement form is for Iowa State University (ISU) students enrolled in less than 12 semester credit hours requesting financial aid to cover credits being taken both at ISU and at another institution, in the same semester. It is strongly encouraged that students completing a consortium agreement are registered for all courses at both the host institution and ISU prior the start of that specified ISU term. If this action does not occur, not all credits may be counted towards federal aid eligibility. Questions regarding this process can be directed to: sfinacon@iastate.edu. ISU students are responsible for any expenses (i.e., tuition, fees, books) charged by the other (host) institution prior to when ISU financial aid is disbursed/available. The ISU student’s financial aid will not be disbursed until the Office of Student Financial Aid receives the Consortium Agreement completed by all parties (but not prior to approved disbursement dates). A transcript of the classes for which the student is receiving financial aid must be sent to Iowa State University Admissions Office and show on the student’s permanent record before another consortium agreement will be reviewed. Future disbursement of aid will be held until a transcript is received. Consortium Policies The student must be taking at least one semester course at ISU to qualify for financial aid through the ISU Office of Student Financial Aid (OSFA). Student must have completed at least one semester at ISU before a consortium agreement will be considered. The consortium agreement will release federal financial aid (Pell Grant, SEOG, Perkins Loans, Federal Direct Subsidized/Unsubsidized Loans, Parent PLUS Loans, and the TEACH Grant) and private student loans. The consortium agreement will not release ISU Grant, scholarships, or State of Iowa grants and scholarships unless the student is enrolled with enough ISU credits to retain qualification for these funds. Students must be enrolled at least half time at ISU (minimum of 6 semester credit hours) to qualify for College Work Study employment opportunities with ISU. The ISU student is responsible for any expenses (i.e., tuition, fees, books) charged by the other (host) institution prior to when ISU financial aid is disbursed/available The ISU student’s financial aid will not be disbursed until the ISU OSFA receives the consortium agreement completed by all parties (but not prior to approved disbursement dates). A transcript of the classes for which the student is receiving financial aid must be sent to and accepted by ISU as transfer credit before another consortium agreement will be reviewed. (Future financial aid disbursements may be held until a transcript is received by ISU.) The student must inform the ISU OSFA in writing if they drop any courses at the other (host) institution. The host institution must promptly inform the ISU OSFA in writing if the student withdraws from the host institution or drops a course reported in the agreement. The host institution does not provide financial aid to the student for the semester specified in the agreement. Consortium agreements will not be approved for previously completed semesters. The consortium agreement must be submitted before the completion of the semester in which aid is requested. The student must be making Satisfactory Academic Progress at both Iowa State University and the host institution. Eligible Consortium Financial Aid Programs The consortium agreement applies to the following Financial Aid programs: Federal Pell Grant Federal Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loan Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Federal PLUS Loan Federal Teach Grant Ineligible Consortium Financial Aid Programs The consortium agreement does not apply to the following Financial Aid programs: ISU Grant Transfer Achievement Award (TAA)* Supplemental ISU Grant Return to Iowa-Generations* Academic Recognition Award (ARA)* Non-resident Initiative to Command Excellence (NICE)* Award for Competitive Excellence (ACE)* All-Iowa/State/USA* Cardinal Leadership Scholar Award* Loyal Scholarship* Forever Scholarship* True Scholarship* Adventure Award* Journey Award* Guest Award* Generations Award* *If a student is not enrolled in 12+ credits at Iowa State University, the award is not available for the semester. If the student is full time between Iowa State University and another college/university, the award can be renewed for future semesters. However, the semester with a consortium agreement will still count as one of the eight total semesters to receive the award. Filling Out a Consortium Agreement The Office of Student Financial Aid is now processing Consortium Agreements through Adobe Sign. The traditional process remains the same, but all parties involved are prompted to complete their portion of the form through the Adobe Sign process via email. The ISU student must initiate the process by completing the Adobe Sign form below. To start, click continue on the bottom of the form, then the yellow start arrow. Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Phone: (515) 294-2223 Fax: (515) 294-0851 Email: sfinacon@iastate.edu Office of Student Financial Aid Office of Student Financial Aid 0210 Beardshear Hall 515 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011-2103 Summer 2022 Office Hours Monday-Friday 7:30 am - 4:00 pm Contact Us financialaid@iastate.edu 515-294-2223 phone 515-294-0851 fax Facebook Twitter Instagram Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995 - Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. FAFSA: ISU School Code 001869 Financial Aid Code of Conduct Consumer Information Disclosure CyCash Loading... Home Types of Aid ▼ Scholarships ▼ Scholarship Award Code Request (Staff) Grants Federal Work-Study Loans Loan Resources ▼ Calculators Deferment and Forbearance Entrance and Exit Counseling Federal Loan Servicers Federal Student Loan Limits Interest Rates and Origination Fees Loan Consolidation Promissory Notes Repayment Tracking Your Loans Cost ▼ Cost of Attendance ▼ Undergraduate Students: Fall & Spring Graduate Students: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Years 1, 2, 3: Fall & Spring Veterinary Medicine Students Year 4: Summer, Fall, & Spring Cost of Attendance Adjustment Veterinary Medicine Cost of Attendance Adjustment 2022-23 Expense Estimator 2021-22 Net Price Calculator FAFSA ▼ Completing the FAFSA Verification ▼ Tax Filers Non-Tax Filers Verification Document Deadline Policy Verification Forms FAFSA Dependency ▼ Independent Appeals FAFSA FSA ID Making Corrections to the FAFSA Special Conditions Student Aid Report (SAR) Student Eligibility Forms Resources ▼ About Your Award Letter Calculators Consortium Agreement FAQs Financial Aid Policies Informational Videos Message from the Director Paying Your Bill Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) ▼ Appealing Financial Aid Suspension SAP for Graduate Students SAP for Undergraduate Students Veterans & Military Students Veterinary Medicine Students Additional Financial Assistance ▼ SNAP Benefit Information Withdrawing and Dropping Classes Other Resources Contact Us Site Index Student Employment ▼ America Reads/America Counts ▼ America Reads/America Counts Contact General Information Information for Educators Information for Prospective Tutors Average Pay Rates Federal Work-Study ▼ Work-Study in Workday Student Employee Recognition ▼ Student Employee of the Year National Student Employment Week Student Employment Center (SEC) Student Job Board ▼ Post a Job Undergraduate Research Assistantships (URA) Student Financial Success