Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift School of Health Research Leadership From the Provost Dear Friends, We all know that if you don’t have good health, not much else matters. That’s why health research is a passion for many of Clemson’s faculty. Indeed, health-related work is widespread — representing nearly every discipline across our campus from bioengineering and public health sciences to architecture and even business. Clemson FORWARD, Clemson University’s strategic plan, sets a new bar for research and scholarly work, with emphasis on six innovation clusters, which includes health innovation. There are hundreds of examples of health-related work going on at Clemson. You can read about a few more within this website and in the CUSHR faculty profiles. We are very proud of our stellar Clemson faculty who are engaged in health research. You can also learn about Clemson University School of Health Research’s (CUSHR) efforts to engage faculty and students across disciplines in applied health research. We are especially proud of the professional learning and immersion experiences that the school has created, including our successful Embedded Scholars and Faculty Fellows programs, which bring Clemson faculty and health system partners together for highly-focused research collaborations. Together with our strategic health system partners, we are advancing health care and building a healthier community in South Carolina. Investments and success stories are on the rise. Our best days are ahead. All the best, Robert H. Jones, Ph.D. Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost About our Leadership Windsor Westbrook Sherrill, Ph.D. Dr. Windsor Westbrook Sherrill is a Provost’s distinguished professor of public health sciences and associate vice president for health research. She also serves as Chief Science Officer for Prisma Health. Dr. Sherrill’s research spans diverse disciplines, including medical and health management education, health finance and policy, and the evaluation of health services and health education programs for underserved groups. Her research initiatives have garnered more than $19 million in external funding and have been published in journals such as Academic Medicine, Medical Education, and the Journal of Health Administration Education. She has taught courses at both the undergraduate and graduate level in topics such as health care management, health care systems, and health care finance. She is the 2012 recipient of the Class of ’39 Award for Excellence and has served as the Faculty Representative to the Clemson University Board of Trustees. Dr. Sherrill is a SC Liberty Fellow and serves on the board of the SC Institute of Medicine and Public Health. Thomas Britt, Ph.D. Dr. Thomas Britt is a Professor of Psychology at Clemson University. He is also the Clemson University Research Director with the Health Sciences Center at Prisma Health and in his role, will work to generate increased collaboration in health research between Clemson faculty from all 7 colleges and Prisma Health clinical faculty. He received his Ph.D. in Social Psychology from the University of Florida in 1994 before entering active duty as a research psychologist in the U.S. Army. He came to Clemson University in 2000, where he was promoted to Full Professor in 2007. His prior research on organizational stress and resilience has been funded by the Department of Defense, the Intelligence Community, and NASA. In January of 2019, Dr. Britt began his position as a CUSHR Faculty Fellow in the Emergency Medicine Department at Prisma Health-Upstate. In this role he is a leader of multiple research projects on meaningful work and other determinants of physician and provider burnout and resilience, as well as multiple research projects in support of the Enhancing the Practice of Medicine Initiative at Prisma Health Upstate. Home Leadership CUSHR Faculty CU-Prisma Health Partnership COVID-19 Research Events In The News Healthy SC Make a Gift Contact Us Related Links CU-MUSC Partnership CU-HSSC Partnership Clemson University Center for Human Genetics College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Prisma Health–Upstate Research SC-TRIMH Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram