Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Application for Re-Entrance *Accordion and tab elements may not be compatible with all versions of Internet Explorer web browsers. If you experience difficulty, please upgrade to the latest version of Chrome or Firefox. If you were previously enrolled as a regular student at Clemson (not a special or transient student) but are not enrolled in the current term, you are classified as a former student. Undergraduate Graduate Former Undergraduate Students 〉 Former Students 〉 Academic Probation, Suspension or Dismissal 〉 Application and Deadlines Former Students If you are a former student continuing your studies, you will be readmitted into your previous major but in the current catalog year. Senior students (students with 90+ hours) are readmitted into the major AND catalog year they were in when they last attended. Former students returning whose major has been discontinued will return in a non-degree status and must change to a degree-granting program. Clemson grads applying for re-entrance as a former student are placed in a "Non-Degree Seeking Undergraduate" status. After re-admittance you can update your status via a Change of Program Form in iROAR. After admission and prior to enrolling in courses, all former undergraduates must meet with an advisor in the Academic Success Center (ASC). Advising appointments are made on a first come, first serve basis. If you are considering taking a course over the summer, you should meet with an advisor early. Course registration is not permitted until you meet with an ASC advisor. Academic Probation, Suspension or Dismissal Probation Students on academic probation are re-admitted on probation. Students remain on probation until the requirements to be in good standing have been met. Suspension If you have been academically suspended from Clemson, you will need to submit an Application for Re-Entrance when you are eligible to return. Dismissal If you have been academically dismissed from Clemson University, you will need to appeal your dismissal and submit an Application for Re-Entrance. After the Appeals Committee on Academic Eligibility has met, a decision will be sent to you and the Office of the Registrar. The Office of the Registrar will then process all applications for which an appeal was approved. For more questions and deadlines for appeals, please contact Undergraduate Studies. Application Windows Part of Term Date Spring 2022 10/1/2021 - 1/14/2022 @ noon Summer 2022 3/1/2022 - 6/25/2022 @ noon Fall 2022 3/1/2022 - 8/19/2022 @ noon Application for Re-Entrance The Undergraduate Application for Re-Entrance fee is $40.00. Instructions for payment are provided in the application. 〉 You will need to create a new account to complete the application—it is not affiliated with your Clemson username and password 〉 Please allow 2-3 business days after submission for processing of your application. Decision letters will be sent to the email address entered on the application 〉 You can check the status of your application in the application portal 〉 Note: Less than 10% of Fall courses are being delivered fully online 〉 Fall term begins August 24. By submitting the application after August 1, you may experience challenges related to course availability, advisor access, student billing and financial aid The Application for Re-Entrance for Summer and Fall 2022 is available now. Former Graduate Students Graduate students who were enrolled within the last two years must complete an Graduate Application for Re-Entrance. Degree-seeking students are readmitted into the degree and major they were in when they last attended Clemson University Graduate School. Graduate students enrolled for more than two years but less than six years must complete an Graduate Application for Re-Entrance which must be approved by their academic department. The application must show any new graduate work. The Graduate School may ask for official transcripts. Students not enrolled in the past six years are considered new students. They must submit a new application, fee and all supporting materials to Graduate Admissions, E-209 Martin Hall. Former students who wish to take undergraduate courses should contact the Admissions Office for procedures. Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation U.S. Veterans Students Registration Student Records Transferring Credits Admittance Former Student Visiting Transient Non-Degree Seeking Senior Citizens Examinations Degree Works Training Materials Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram