COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computer Engineering, Major MajorComputer Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Wichita State’s Bachelor of Science (BS) in computer engineering will prepare you for a high-paying career in a large number of industries and governmental organizations. You’ll have access to some of the best labs and technology in the country—and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and in Kansas’ center of industry. Learn how computer engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Computer engineering students have the opportunity to apply their knowledge to real industry problems in the Robotics and Automation Lab, part of WSU's National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR). Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local kids with disabilities As an engineering student, you have the opportunity to work hands-on in your industry while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The collaborative program involves engineering and physical therapy students who modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. “It allows me to engage my mind. In the end you’ve done something to help someone less-fortunate than yourself,” said computer engineering major Brandon Nece. Learn more about GoBaby Go! Curriculum In this ABET-accredited program, you’ll study a broad array of electives or concentrate on hardware, computer networking or electrical engineering. As a senior, you’ll work in a team on a two-semester project—giving you practical experience you’ll put to use in your future engineering career. View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections, and work-based learning for every major, gives computer engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, gain practical experience, earn a paycheck—and open doors to their dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Information Technology and Management Information Systems Information Technology and Management Information Systems (Minor) Computer Science Computer Science (Minor) Electrical Engineering Engineering Technology - Mechatronics Technology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©