Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team Home Communities Alumni clubs and societies Alumni clubs and societies It’s who you know. It’s also who you used to know. And who you should get to know. Our groups offer opportunities for continued friendship and service to Buckeye communities. Alumni hubs dot the map nationally and the world over, keeping you close to campus and to all those who call Ohio State their home away from home. 120-plus alumni clubs are geographically based and foster service and friendship all over the world. Find a club 50-plus alumni societies allow members to serve the university based on their interests and experiences. Find a society Email Craig Little if you're interested in starting a new club or society. Already a part of a club or society? Looking for information and resources? Check out groups.alumni.osu.edu. © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by University Marketing Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice Ohio State Alumni Assoc. The Ohio State University