Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! THIS Matters Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Campus Involvement>THIS Matters THIS Matters THIS Matters ...what matters to Baylor. How do we respond to concealed carry? cultural appropriation? faith and politics? racial and ethnic tensions? How do we get involved in local and national issues? How do events from halfway across the globe impact us here? How do we prepare ourselves to engage in a world of diversity and different opinions? THIS Matters forums offer a series of discussion panels connecting leaders from diverse perspectives to offer context to society's most challenging questions. We attempt to address immediate, unanticipated or unprecedented issues that occur locally and globally, directly and indirectly affecting our campus community. We strive to provide a safe space for students, faculty, staff and members of the community to share ideas and enrich each other’s understanding of the topic. We do not attempt to provide solutions to complex issues or speak on behalf of University officials; instead, we create opportunities to promote dialogue and critical thinking as we further engage with difficult topics. Previous forum topics have included: Racial Reconciliation How to Get Your Voice Heard: Protests, Petitions, and Policy Change Refugees Immigration Hypermasculinity & Hyperfemininity Sexual Violence & Aggression on College Campuses Does My Vote Matter? Today's Political Climate Campus Carry My Culture is Not a Costume Fifty Shades of Grey Racial and Ethnic Tensions Refugee Crisis Hazing and Campus Traditions Patriotism, Protests, and Pro-Athletes #MeToo Racial Relationships in the Era of Trump THIS Matters Team Students, faculty, and staff from across campus who strive to bring cutting edge research and fieldwork into conversation with current events in order to keep Baylor University’s students well-informed and active global citizens and leaders in today’s world. Dr. Elizabeth Palacios, Dean for Student Development Jasmine Wilson, Assistant Director for Resident Learning Pearlie Beverly, Director of Multicultural Affairs Lori Fogleman, Assistant Vice President for Media Relations Dr. Josh Ritter, Assistant Director for Baylor Formation Lizzy Davis, Coordinator for the Peer Leader Program Maggie Griffin, Coordinator of Creative Services, Baylor Formation and Multicultural Affairs Adam Moore, Assistant Director of Student and Alumni Initiatives, Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Coordinator Sharyl Loeung, Coordinator for Outreach and Inclusion, Multicultural Affairs Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life Multicultural Greek Council National Pan-Hellenic Council THIS Matters Global Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!