Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High SchoolFreshmenTransferInternationalOnline (UofM Global)ReadmitsGraduateLaw SchoolNon-Degree SeekingParents & FamiliesHS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition Overview Residency Policy Border County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics Admissions Residency Information Residency Information The UofM's residency policy can be summarized as follows: If a student’s primary source of support is the parents, then at least one of the parents must be a resident of the state of Tennessee for the student to count as in-state. NOTE: If a student has begun his or her studies as an in-state student, the student stays in-state as long as he or she remains continuously enrolled even if the parent subsequently moves to another state. If the student is “emancipated” (i.e., not supported primarily through the parents), a student must have their “domicile” in the state of Tennessee. Normally, a student establishes domicile by residing in Tennessee for at least two regular (fall or spring) semesters before enrolling full-time at a college or university in Tennessee. Students who have been residents of Tennessee for less than the normal period must clearly establish that they moved to Tennessee for reasons other than educational purposes before enrolling at a college or university in Tennessee. Some examples of documentation could be copies of a lease or mortgage information, TN driver’s license, utility bill, TN voter’s registration, etc. As long as an out-of-state student is continuously enrolled full-time at an institution of higher-education in Tennessee, the assumption is that they are here primarily for educational purposes. The spouse of a student classified as in-state shall also be classified as in-state. Note: the spouse must be a student. A copy of the marriage certificate should be provided. An out-of-state student attending the University of Memphis on a part-time basis (11 hrs max for undergraduate students and 8 hrs max for graduate students) may pay fees at an in-state rate in a given semester if they can establish, prior to the beginning of the semester, that he or she is employed full-time in the state of Tennessee. A letter of employment must be provided by the employer each semester. Information should be included verifying that the student is employed full-time (minimum of 37.5 hours per week.) An active duty military personnel whose ‘Home of Record’ is Tennessee but who is stationed elsewhere is considered an in-state student for fee paying purposes. Applicants who provide evidence that they have been transferred by their employer to Tennessee will be considered in-state. A letter from the employer is required prior to the beginning of the semester for documentation. In addition to U.S. citizens and permanent residents, certain non-immigrants who hold visas from particular categories are eligible to establish domicile in the U.S. and in Tennessee, and thus become eligible for in-state tuition rates. Such persons are eligible for in-state tuition upon proof that they have initiated proceedings to become a permanent resident or become naturalized, thus establishing the intent to remain permanently in the U.S., coupled with standard evidence of "domicile". Contact the Admissions Office for more information. Non-immigrant visa holders who have been approved for Permanent Residency status must provide one the following as documentation to be considered an in-state student for fee paying purposes; congratulatory letter from Homeland Security, stamped passport, or copy of green card. Asylum and refugee classifications are considered to be Permanent Residents. A copy of the I-94 card is required. Complete an Application for Residency Classification/Residency Appeal > Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act (EVEA) The Tennessee Eligibility Verification for Entitlements Act requires the University of Memphis to verify that students 18 years of age or older who obtain a state public benefit are a United States citizen or otherwise lawfully present in the United States. Students who complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will not be required to submit additional documentation to confirm their U.S. citizenship or lawful presence. Students applying for financial aid that does not require use of the FAFSA may be required to submit documentation to the UofM verifying U.S. citizenship or lawful presence in the United States. Learn more and submit EVEA documentation > Admissions/Non-Resident Fee Waivers Academic Common Market: The Academic Common Market program allows students from select states to pay Tennessee resident tuition while completing their degree at the University of Memphis. Border County fee waivers: The University of Memphis accommodates students from border counties in Arkansas and Mississippi with a waiver of the non-resident portion of regular tuition. Employed full-time in Tennessee/Enrolled part-time Military: Active duty military and their dependents stationed in Tennessee regardless of their ‘Home of Record’ will be eligible to pay in-state fees. Bursar Fee Discounts/Waivers Visit the University and Student Business Services (USBS) website to learn more. Please refer to the policies posted on the site for a precise and detailed description. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.