By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid Graduate Student Aid In this Section External Grants & Fellowships Loans Fellowships International Students Diversity Resources Funding Deadlines Graduate Student Aid The majority of funding decisions are made at the departmental level, so contact your program to see what opportunities are available through your school or college. Your professors are in the best position to determine if/how you will qualify for merit-based support. Also, your faculty advisor, program director, or department chair will be able to help you determine if one of the these funding opportunities will apply to you. Apply for financial aid and loans University Fellowships Syracuse University Graduate Fellowships consist of a stipend and a full-tuition scholarship (up to 30 credits for the academic year). Where appropriate, they are awarded for more than one academic year. Multi-year awards typically include a year of fellowship followed by a year of teaching or research assistantship, followed by a third year of fellowship support. View information about some specific fellowships available . Graduate Assistantships (Teaching and Research) Each year Syracuse University offers over 1,200 graduate assistantships to full-time matriculated graduate students to serve as teaching or research assistants. A limited number of administrative assistantships are available in selected departments. Graduate students holding a full assistantship work for an average of 20 hours a week during the academic year. The department making the appointment determines the salary the assistant receives, and graduate assistants also receive tuition scholarships. In searching for an assistantship, start with your academic department. This offers the best chance of finding an opportunity related to your program of study. If you are unable to locate opportunities in your home department, your faculty advisor, graduate program director, or department chair may be able to advise you of other options. When applying, you should check the admission application question on funding for “assistantships,” or you may contact your academic department for more information. Scholarships Syracuse University awards merit scholarships on the recommendation of your academic department. Scholarships provide tuition credited directly to your bursar account. These do not include a stipend. Scholarships may be awarded for some or all of your tuition in a given year. These awards carry with them the expectation that you will maintain a minimum academic standard (3.0 grade point average or higher each term) and make satisfactory progress toward your degree. Contact your department chairperson or faculty advisor for more information. Syracuse University Travel Grant Program Many academic departments use their own funds to help graduate students defray the costs of travel to present original work at a conference. Contact your department to determine the availability of funds for this purpose. Graduate Dean's Award for Excellence in Research and Creative Works Competition If you are interested in carrying out independent research or creative projects during the summer, Syracuse University’s Graduate School holds a competition held each year for this purpose, administered by the University's schools and colleges. Students interested in this competition are encouraged to contact their respective program director or department chair. Research Excellence Doctoral Funding Program The Research Excellence Doctoral Funding Program is focused on supporting approximately 30 doctoral fellowships per year, funded through the Invest Syracuse initiative and administered by the Graduate School. The fellowships are awarded annually on a competitive basis to new and continuing doctoral students and include a stipend and tuition credits. Typical awards provide up to two years of funding, with college-level funding for two additional years through teaching assistant (TA) or research assistant (RA) positions. Summer Funding Competition The Summer Funding Competition provides up to 30 dissertation fellowships to advanced doctoral students. The summer dissertation fellowship provides $4,000 each to a select group of outstanding doctoral students to facilitate progress towards completion of their dissertation. Funding can be used to offset cost of living expenses and/or to cover research-related expenses. Other Sources of Support Some academic departments and schools or colleges at Syracuse have endowed resources of their own from which they may provide financial support to graduate students. The nature of these opportunities requires that you contact your department to determine whether such support may be available to you. Related Pages External Grants and Fellowships There are private organizations and government agencies that provide support for graduate study. Loans The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs offers a step-by-step guide on how to apply for federal financial aid, including Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Federal Direct Graduate PLUS loans. Fellowships Graduate fellowships consist of a stipend and a full-tuition scholarship (up to 30 credits for the academic year). Diversity Resources Syracuse University is committed to increasing the numbers of graduate students from populations traditionally underrepresented in higher education and offers a number of resources to eligible students. Funding Deadlines Most admission deadlines for graduate programs are January 1 or later, but some have earlier deadlines. If you are seeking financial support from Syracuse University, you should note the program specific deadline on your admission application instructions. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy