Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School About the Graduate School Academic Events & Honors Awards Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service Graduate School Skip to Navigation Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service Amelia Grabowski AM '15, receives the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service at Commencement from Associate Dean Vanessa Ryan.This award recognizes outstanding engaged citizenship and service to the community within or outside of the University by a Master’s student in any program. The award and an honorarium are presented at the Graduate School Commencement ceremony in May. Evidence of citizenship and service can include: contributions to campus life; involvement in departmental or University-level committees, curricular and/or extracurricular programming; other campus-based initiatives to support students; advocacy; or civic or community accomplishment. Nomination process and requirements: Students can be nominated by faculty, staff/administrators, other students, or community members. The work leading to this award can be accomplished as a part of a program/course requirement, or outside of program/course requirements. Students in terminal master’s degree programs or executive master’s programs and doctoral students enrolled in a secondary master’s program through the Open Graduate Education program are eligible for nomination. The nomination letter should include evidence of contribution or service and should describe value and impact of this engagement. Please furnish digital material in support of the nomination, where feasible. The deadline for nominations: Extended to April 6, 2022.. Nominations should be made through UFunds, found under the Graduate Student and Alumni Awards button. All nominations are reviewed by the Graduate Council, which also makes final determinations regarding the winner. Please note another award opportunity: The Graduate Student Contribution to Community Life Award is given by the Division of Campus Life. The award recognizes a select group of graduating doctoral and master’s students who have contributed in a very significant way to the sense of community at Brown. Winners of the Master’s Award for Engaged Citizenship and Community Service include: 2021 Yisel De Oleo-Gregory, Urban Education Policy Learn more about Yisel and her accomplishments. 2020 Manuel Jiménez, Business Administration Learn more about Manuel and his accomplishments. 2019 Wesley Morgan King, Public Health 2018 Joyce Sunday, Biotechnology 2017 Katie Vogel, Public Humanities 2016 Elizabeth Bunzli, Public Health 2015 Amelia Grabowski, Public Humanities Home About the Graduate School People Mission & Facts Diversity and Inclusion News & Communications Academic Events & Honors Orientation Commencement Awards Events & Series Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Support Graduate Student Resources Maps & Directions Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants