Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Resources » For Non-University Clients Set Navigation title in component COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Non-University Clients Thank you for considering UC as a venue for your important event! CES makes it easy for you with our one contract, one source of contact and one invoice experience. The moment you contact us, our One-Stop Shop program will see you through with professional staff helping you along the way. Event Sponsor When hosting a special event on campus, non-University groups are required to have a sponsor from a UC Department, Student Organization, Faculty, Student, or Staff to hold your event inside Tangeman University Center, Stratford Heights or a centrally scheduled classroom. This does not apply to events in Nippert's West Pavilion or in outdoor venues. It’s easy to do; just have your university sponsor complete the form below and return to CES. Use of pace requires room rental fees and CES will review options with you. Sponsorship Form Event Insurance When hosting a special event on campus, non-University groups are required to provide CES with a certificate of insurance (COI). Insurance requirements and coverage quotes are available on Enterprise Risk Management. If you have questions about this process, email event.services@uc.edu and we’ll be happy to advice you. Services for Your Event CES arranges the following campus services for your events: Parking Catering Audiovisual and lighting Security Facility Logistics Other services available: Full event planning Event Registration Attendee name badges And more Your Steps to Success Review your venue options. Complete the Inquiry Request Form. Secure your university sponsor. If space is available, CES sends you a rental agreement. Complete and return the agreement. Work with an assigned CES professional to finalize all event details. Communicate all the arrangements with your guests. Arrive day of, confident your event will be successful for you and your guests! Use of University Facilities University facilities are the property of the state of Ohio, and are subject to all applicable state laws, rules and regulations. The following priority system is used for scheduling facilities: Academic classes Academic-related activities Other uses by current students, faculty, staff and student organizations Activities sponsored or co-sponsored by current students, faculty, staff and student organizations The University of Cincinnati reserves the right to change facility assignments or to cancel any previously scheduled facility if such change or cancellation is made to meet university needs. The university is not responsible for any costs or damages suffered by a sponsored group as a result of such change or cancellation. Quick Links List of Venues Inquiry Request Form Sponsorship Form Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top