Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Baylor University Baylor University Baylor University Baylor University, a private Christian university and a nationally ranked research institution, provides a vibrant campus community for over 16,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Baylor also strives to embrace diversity in its faculty, staff, and student body, with 36% of the 2017-18 undergraduate students identifying as ethnic minorities. As articulated in its mission, Baylor endeavors "to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community" - a mission further illustrated through the University's foundational assumptions, core convictions, and unifying academic themes. These commitments motivated the founding of Baylor in 1845 and have guided the university at every point in its history. Together with Baylor's motto, Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana, they continue to define Baylor's exceptional character, purpose, and vocation in the world of higher education. Baylor University Virtual Tour: https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88789 Awards & Rankings Baylor University enjoys high standing among many national rating services that evaluate quality of education, research activity, affordability, baccalaureate value, and athletic excellence. These rankings recognize not only Baylor, as a whole, but also our many respected schools and departments, which are led by our gifted, award-winning professors. U.S. News & World Report ranks Baylor No. 71 on their annual review of colleges and universities. Baylor is a Tier 1 school among national universities. The magazine also lists Baylor University as No. 45 on their list of High School Counselor Rankings among national universities. Schools in the national universities category offer a full range of undergraduate majors, masters and doctoral degrees. These colleges also are committed to producing groundbreaking research. Baylor’s Statement on Diversity As a leading Christian institution with a strong Baptist identity and heritage that embraces both its global and Texan roots, Baylor University seeks to “educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community." In line with this mission, we seek to embody Christ’s teachings of love and inclusivity across boundaries of racial, ethnic, gender, socio-economic, religious, and other expressions of human difference. Because, at Baylor, "Love thy neighbor" are not just words…they are a way of life. Living out the calling and mission of Christ means living within diversity. It means embracing that diversity by practicing inclusion. We know that diversity and difference enhance and challenge us all in creative ways. We can begin to understand all types of differences in new ways when we foster a community of inclusion. That is why we do not simply offer an accommodating space of toleration. We seek to practice reconciliation. At Baylor, we celebrate our distinctive place in higher education - where research, scholarship, and faith guide the mind in understanding the complex diversity of God’s creation and prepare the whole person for service and leadership. Baylor is committed to developing critical thinkers and active citizens for full participation in our global community. We will develop the whole person within the context of God’s creation - a rich, complexity of life and diversity. We are a university with diversity. The Baylor community is fully committed to nurturing an environment for knowing, being, and doing across the campus where people of all backgrounds can come together and reason together, live together, believe together, create together, learn together, work together, and grow together. We know that we are stronger together. Together we can sharpen our intellect, broaden our worldviews, deepen our capacity for compassion, enliven our passion for learning, and expand our ability to experience and to offer the grace and peace of Christ to each other and to the world. Baylor Counseling Center Diversity Statement: https://www.baylor.edu/counseling_center/index.php?id=936587 APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health