Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager STIs Chlamydia Updated December 2016. What is chlamydia? Chlamydia is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STI). It is caused by the bacteria chlamydia trachomatis and can infect the penis, vagina, cervix, anus, urethra, or eye. Because the signs of chlamydia often go unnoticed, an individual can develop serious health complications before they recognize that they are infected. Is it common? There are approximately 4 million cases of chlamydia in the US each year and 3 out of every 4 cases reported were in individuals under the age of 25. Though the disease is easily treatable, it can be present without showing any symptoms and individuals can go a long time without knowing they are infected. Because individuals don't always know they are infected, the number of chlamydia infections is significantly underreported. How is it transmitted? Chlamydia can be transmitted during vaginal, anal, or oral sex and can be transmitted even if there are no signs or symptoms of infection. Chlamydia can also be passed from an infected mother to a newborn during vaginal childbirth. What are the symptoms? The symptoms for people with penises may include: Painful, burning sensation during urination Watery or milky discharge from the penis Inflammation of the urinary opening Pain or swelling in the testicles The symptoms for people with vaginas may include: Vaginal irritation or itching Abnormal vaginal discharge Irregular vaginal bleeding Pelvic pain Nausea Fever Pain during intercourse Painful urination or a frequent need to urinate However, about 90% of people with vaginas and 70% of people with penises have no symptoms until the infection is quite advanced. Many people with vaginas only discover they have chlamydia when they have a pelvic exam or when a partner develops symptoms. Because people can have chlamydia and not have any symptoms, they can have the infection for a long time before they receive treatment. Infection can spread from the cervix to the uterus and cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). If PID is not treated, it can cause scarring and sterility. It can also spread from the urethra to the testicles, causing inflammation and sterility if not treated. If you experience any of the symptoms above or think you might have been exposed to chlamydia, you should consult a medical provider immediately and abstain from sex until you have been tested and until you and your partner(s) have completed any prescribed medication. How soon after exposure to chlamydia will symptoms appear? If you are infected with chlamydia you might not have symptoms, but if symptoms do occur, they usually surface within 1 to 3 weeks of exposure. How is it diagnosed? Your medical provider will take a swab of the vaginal, rectal or urethral opening or will take a urine sample and this will be analyzed by a lab test. You can make an appointment with Health Services or you can contact another testing site in Providence. Click here to see a listing of local STI test sites. If you choose to get tested at Health Services, you can ask your medical provider about testing costs and when you can expect your results back during your appointment. How is it treated? Chlamydia infections are usually treated with antibiotics. It is important to take the entire course of medication to make sure the infection is gone. If you are tested at Health Services, you can pick up your antibiotic prescription at the pharmacy. If you find out that you are infected with chlamydia, you should also notify all of your recent sex partner(s) so that they can be treated, even if they don't have symptoms. This will reduce the risk of your partner(s) experiencing complications from an infection and will reduce your risk of being re-infected. You should not have sex until you complete your treatment, and your partner(s) are tested and complete their treatment. Can chlamydia infections be dangerous? Chlamydia infections can create serious health threats if gone undiagnosed and untreated, especially for women. In people with vaginas, chlamydia can cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can scar and block the fallopian tubes and prevent fertilized eggs from reaching the uterus. If fertilized eggs develop in the tubes, this is called an ectopic pregnancy -- a dangerous situation that requires emergency surgery. In people with penises, chlamydia can cause sterility. It can spread from the urethra to the testicles where a condition called epididymitis (inflammation of a duct in the testicles) can develop. Also in people with penises, chlamydia can cause Reiter's syndrome -- a condition with symptoms including: Urethritis Lesions that form hard crusts on the penis Ulcers in the mouth or throat Conjunctivitis Arthritis Related Links For more information about chlamydia, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Centers for Disease Control About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook