Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search SMU Ignited Leaders Message from Campaign Leadership Council Leading bold change Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council Dallas’ continued strength and growth depend on founding and strengthening vital institutions that create opportunities for personal and professional enrichment, community outreach and enhanced quality of life. Since its creation more than a century ago, SMU has become a central ﬁgure in our city’s development, representing bold change, groundbreaking innovation and advancements in learning. SMU is exemplary within the realm of higher education, combining the focus and drive of a private institution with impactful faculty research, meaningful community outreach and extensive academic programs for students at every stage of their educational journeys. With a bold vision for the future and dedication to meaningful positive impact, SMU’s past campaigns drew signiﬁcant investments and dedicated commitments from Mustangs around the globe. Alumni, families and friends of the Hilltop continue to inspire greatness by banding together to meet the needs of current and future generations of students, faculty and the broader community. As representatives of SMU’s Board of Trustees, we are proud to endorse this bold campaign and enthusiastic about what it will mean for the Hilltop, Dallas and beyond. Throughout this website, you will read about SMU’s inspiring vision for its future. We invite you to join this drive and to create your own SMU legacy through SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow. Sincerely, CAMPAIGN LEADERSHIP COUNCIL Michael M. Boone ’63, ’67 Kelly Hoglund Compton ’79 Robert H. Dedman, Jr. ’80, ’84 Gerald J. Ford ’66, ’69, Convening Co-Chair Ray L. Hunt ’65 David B. Miller ’72, ’73 Caren H. Prothro Carl Sewell ’66 R. Gerald Turner, President, Ex Officio Brad E. Cheves, Vice President for Development and External Affairs Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search