Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V News Center News Center About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close News Center menu News Center News Center Home About Search Browse Browse Archive Browse By College/School Browse By Administrative Unit Publications Accomplishments Class Notes Experts Directory UNLV In The News UNLV Today UNLV Innovation Magazine UNLV Magazine Submit Share Story Idea Submit Accomplishment Submit Class Note Submit UNLV Today Announcement Become a Speaker/Expert Contact close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Rebels Make It Happen UNLV students share their stories on stepping up, breaking out, and making their it happen. Here’s the first thing to know about Rebels: You can’t define us. There is no “average” Rebel. Half of our students are the first in their families to go to college. Tagalog is one of the most-spoken second languages among our students. Military Times lists us as one of its Best for Vets. All that ripples throughout our campus. It creates a climate where you can both find your people and expand your worldview. What's your it? That thing you're driven to become? That challenge you want to meet head on? Here, your future classmates share their stories of making the most of what UNLV has to offer. May 15 2021 Author: UNLV News Center Section: People In This Series Rooting Out Root Canals and Brokering Brand Deals People | March 3, 2022 Rooting Out Root Canals and Brokering Brand Deals UNLV dental student ranks top of her class while inspiring others as a YouTube fitness creator. Carrying on Family Legacy People | February 15, 2022 Carrying on Family Legacy Through College of Education certificate program, business student Alex Chackel continues family sport legacy. Breaking Through the Age Brackets People | December 17, 2021 Breaking Through the Age Brackets UNLV undergraduate creates a more inclusive environment for non-traditional students. Alumnus Charts a New Course After a Career-Ending Accident People | November 30, 2021 Alumnus Charts a New Course After a Career-Ending Accident Former flight attendant Ben Jantzen on being a nontraditional student and discovering a new career in college. Nutrition Students Offer the Latin American Community Food for Thought Campus News | July 16, 2021 Nutrition Students Offer the Latin American Community Food for Thought Enrique Nieto and a team of students are setting out to improve the health of the Las Vegas community. Rebels Make It Happen: Lexie Ignacio Campus News | July 15, 2021 Rebels Make It Happen: Lexie Ignacio First-generation entertainment engineering and design major embraces the Las Vegas experience. Taking Charge to Achieve Success That's Uniquely His Own Campus News | July 15, 2021 Taking Charge to Achieve Success That's Uniquely His Own Junior Kyle Catarata looks to create new opportunities for aspiring law students. Being Open to Discovery People | July 10, 2021 Being Open to Discovery Coming to UNLV from Hagatña, Guam opened up new doors for communication studies major Joey Cruz to discover jobs, internships, service opportunities, and more. Breaking Health Barriers People | July 1, 2021 Breaking Health Barriers UNLV creates citizens who are well adapted to succeed. Get to know Haley Pflum. A Place Like No Other People | July 1, 2021 A Place Like No Other The atmosphere at UNLV is something no one can replicate. Get to know Makayla. Home Is Where the Campus Is People | July 1, 2021 Home Is Where the Campus Is Future radiologist feels at home at UNLV and in Las Vegas. Exploring New Horizons People | July 1, 2021 Exploring New Horizons Marketing major and thrift shopping enthusiast finds the perfect place to meet new people from other cultures and backgrounds. If Opportunity Doesn't Knock, Build a Door People | June 30, 2021 If Opportunity Doesn't Knock, Build a Door UNLV is full of amazing opportunities! Join a group. Home Sweet Home People | June 30, 2021 Home Sweet Home Theatre and hospitality major Darian Fluker shares the value of getting an education in our iconic city. Stepping Out of Comfort Zones People | June 29, 2021 Stepping Out of Comfort Zones Don't compare this criminal justice major — or yourself — to anyone else! Topics: Rebels Make It Happen, student profile Related News:Rooting Out Root Canals and Brokering Brand Deals, Stepping Out of Comfort Zones, Home Sweet Home, If Opportunity Doesn't Knock, Build a Door, Breaking Through the Age Brackets, Exploring New Horizons, Home Is Where the Campus Is, Being Open to Discovery, Breaking Health Barriers, Rebels Make It Happen: Lexie Ignacio, A Place Like No Other, Taking Charge to Achieve Success That's Uniquely His Own, Nutrition Students Offer the Latin American Community Food for Thought, Carrying on Family Legacy, Alumnus Charts a New Course After a Career-Ending Accident Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV