Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Diversity Watch Full Video Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Diversity Watch Full Video Menu Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Health and Wellness Diversity at Xavier More than 7,000 people call Xavier home. We’re first-generation students, veterans and people of color. We speak different languages and worship as Catholics, Muslims, Jews and more. We identify as LGBTQIA+, men, women and non-gender conforming. We’re people with disabilities, both visible and non-apparent. All of our experiences add up to strengthen our community and classrooms. Being Musketeers makes us All For One. Embracing our differences to bring us together, means we are All One. Take a look at some of the programs and offices that advance, promote and support belonging and equity at Xavier. Expanding Horizons A Piece of the Puzzle The Fabric of Who We Are Center for Diversity and Inclusion The Center for Diversity and Inclusion (CDI) creates a diverse, inclusive and equitable campus for all students, especially for students of color, LGBTQIA+ students, first-generation college attendees and women. Offering more than 51 programs and trainings per year. About the Center for Diversity and Inclusion Student Involvement There are more than 15 identity-based clubs and organizations on Xavier’s campus, including the LGBTQ Alliance, LatinX and the Black Student Association. These clubs unite underrepresented populations, students with similar ethnic background or a group of individuals identifying with a specific nationality or culture. Clubs and Organizations The Center for Faith and Justice The Center for Faith and Justice (CFJ) strengthens a sense of community among individuals of diverse faiths on campus. The Center offers prayer services and faith sharing groups, and is home to a full-time Muslim chaplain, Catholic chaplain, Rabbi and Protestant minister. Center for Faith and Justice Office of Institutional Diversity and Inclusion The Office of Institutional Diversity and Inclusion (OIDI) provides University-wide leadership to promote and support the development and success of diversity and inclusion initiatives that advance Xavier's Jesuit Catholic mission. Office of Institutional Diversity and Inclusion International Student and Scholar Services There are more than 150 international students at Xavier. International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) works closely with faculty, staff, campus organizations and community groups to ensure that international students achieve their academic and personal goals. International Student and Scholar Services Smooth Transitions Smooth Transitions is a competitive first-year student summer pre-orientation and year-long peer mentoring program that helps underrepresented domestic students make the transition to college. Smooth Transitions Program Senegal Trip Xavier offers students healing-centered leadership development and heritage travel experiences in Senegal, West Africa. The program is centered on racial reconciliation and healing that deepens students’ capacity for healing, restoration and resilience. Diasporic Soul Trip Fraternity and Sorority Life The National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) is the governing body of the historical Black Greek organizations. The NPHC at Xavier is comprised of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., Kappa Alpha Psi, Fraternity, Inc. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. and Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority Inc. Greek Life Details Unique Individuals Within One Community Everyone has the chance to see the world though someone else's eyes and everyone has the opportunity to belong to something bigger than themselves. 21% Students of Color 48 Countries represented in the student population 15 Religions represented in the student population With WOX Help, Three Students Attend Black Student-Athlete Summit in Texas In January of 2020, the Student-Athlete Academic Support Services office, in conjunction with the Women of Excellence, sent three minority student-athletes (two female and one male) along with one staff member to the Black Student-Athlete Summit in Austin, Texas. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram