Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Campus Access For Visitors Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs As the local public health situation continues to improve, the University has begun to resume allowing visitors on campus. To reduce the risk and spread of COVID-19, Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) and Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) have established protocols for visitors and for the Harvard community members who invite visitors to campus, including the recommendation that all visitors attest to or demonstrate proof of vaccination or recent negative COVID-19 test if accessing non-public spaces. The guidance and protocols apply to official visitors, the general public, and vendors. HUHS and EH&S will adapt the guidance as needed. Schools and Units may have additional requirements and restrictions concerning visitors. Read the visitor and on-campus activity guidance Visiting Harvard Visitor Center & Tours The Harvard University Visitor Center provides official in-person and virtual tours, directions, and helpful tips for navigating campus. Get ideas and assistance for planning your next visit. Learn about tours and the visitor center Libraries All virtual services are available, and some of Harvard’s libraries are open for in-person use. Explore Harvard’s libraries Museums Several Harvard museums have reopened to Harvard affiliates and to the public for in-person visits. You can also enjoy their digital content online. Explore Harvard’s museums Athletics Live stream games, or purchase a ticket to a future on-campus event. See the latest spectator guidance. Learn about Harvard athletics Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube