Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Search Now News Archives May 26, 2022 Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international programs Cadet Xuan "An" Nguyen (left) is an astronautical engineering major at the U.S. Air Force Academy. (Photo/Josh Armstrong) Story by Ray Bowden U.S. Air Force Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. - An astronautical engineering major at the U.S. Air Force Academy said the school’s international programs strengthen relationships between the U.S. and its allies. Cadet Xuan “An” Nguyen attends the Academy as the first cadet from Vietnam’s Ministry of National Defense to be enrolled in the Secretary of Defense Four-Year International Cadet Program. “The program brings different perspectives from different countries to the American cadets and gives the international... Continue Reading Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international programs May 25, 2022 ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s Class of 2022 Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III shakes hands with graduates in the U.S. Air Force Academy's Class of 2022 May 25, 2022. Austin was the commencement speaker for the graduation ceremony. (U.S. Air Force photo) By Ray Bowden U.S. Air Force Academy Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin III said newly commissioned officers graduating from the U.S. Air Force Academy May 25 will bring their dedication to service and innovation to the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Space Force. Austin gave the commencement speech for the Class of 2022 at the school’s graduation... Continue Reading ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s Class of 2022 May 25, 2022 The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of ‘22 (Photo/Trevor Cokley) By Ray Bowden, U.S. Air Force Academy Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – Nearly 1,000 Air Force and Space Force officers graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in a ceremony at Falcon Stadium May 25. In all, 863 class of ’22 cadets were commissioned into the Air Force and 94 were commissioned into the Space Force as second lieutenants. Sixteen international cadets graduated with their U.S. classmates. The Breakdown This information is based on data from the Academy’s operations and analysis office released May 23. -- 1,434 men and women received appointments into the Class... Continue Reading The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of ‘22 May 24, 2022 ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make innovation history (Defense Dept. photo by Cherie A. Thurlby) Commentary by Col. Jeff Greenwood Space Force Delta 13 Detachment 1 commander U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – This week, nearly 1,000 cadets will graduate from the U.S. Air Force Academy and receive their commissions as newly minted second lieutenants in the Air Force and Space Force. It’s always an exciting time as friends and family members from around the world come together at our Academy to witness this culminating event, and it’s equally thrilling for the faculty and staff who get to celebrate with our newest batch of officers. For the third... Continue Reading ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make innovation history May 20, 2022 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Col. Melissa Youderian, commander of the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School, congratulates Cadet Candidate Bryce Matthew Leapart during the prep school's graduation ceremony, May 16, 2022 in Arnold Hall. (Photo by Justin Pacheco) By Tech. Sgt. Zach Vaughn U.S. Air Force Academy Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. -- Scores of cadet-candidates celebrated their graduation from the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School on May 16, 2022. All told, 171 cadet-candidates graduated after completing an uncompromising ten-month program to develop their academic, military and athletic skills, said Col. Melissa Youderian, U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School commander. “It wasn’t easy, but... Continue Reading 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school May 20, 2022 Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike (Photo/Col. Christopher McClernon) Commentary By Col Christopher McClernon U.S. Air Force Academy associate dean of research U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. - A 1973 article by S. S. Wilson in Scientific American compared the efficiency of animals in motion and found birds and fish are much more efficient than walking or running humans. However, Wilson then tested a human on a bicycle and found that a cyclist was more efficient than all other animals studied. Steve Jobs, co-founder and former CEO of Apple Inc., often cited these findings to emphasize the value of tools, referring to the computer as a... Continue Reading Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike May 19, 2022 Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for all Commentary by Cadet 2nd Class Manmeet Pelia U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. - My research journey highlights the U.S. Air Force Academy’s best quality: an ability to democratize innovative research. I am the daughter of an enlisted Airman, parents who did not attend college and who immigrated to the U.S. By age 12, thanks to my dad, I mastered the art of writing enlisted performance reports and vetting every legal document entering my home. Coming to the Academy, I had no idea about the world of academia or inner workings of a research enterprise. It was with the guidance and... Continue Reading Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for all May 11, 2022 Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Story by Airman 1st Class Drew Cybert, 27th Special Operations Wing Public Affairs CANNON AIR FORCE BASE, N.M. -- Cadets from the U.S. Air Force Academy visited the 27th Special Operations Wing at Cannon Air Force Base, New Mexico, to get a look at an operational Air Force base, April 21. This is the first time in two years that cadets from the Academy toured Cannon for a sponsor base wing trip to witness how an operational Air Force Special Operations Command base functions. "It’s an awesome opportunity for the cadets to get their hands on some aircraft, talk to... Continue Reading Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM May 9, 2022 Community celebrates Planetarium reopening By Rachelle Stoll, Strategic Communications Photos by Joshua Armstrong An audience gazes at the galaxy in the Planetarium’s hemispheric dome on May 7, 2022. U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, COLO., -- Cadets, base employees, local community members and their families celebrated the official Planetarium reopening at the United States Air Force Academy with a public open house on May 7, 2022. Over 1,500 people were in attendance for the celebration, which included live astronomer shows, food trucks, a glider exhibition, and an inflatable planetarium. The Bird mascot greeted guests in the area while the Academy’s Falconry team showed four live falcons... Continue Reading Community celebrates Planetarium reopening May 6, 2022 Academy celebrates the legacy of the Tuskegee Airmen Tuskegee Airmen and their family members pose for a photograph with cadets and senior officials at the U.S. Air Force Academy during the school’s annual Tuskegee Airmen Commemoration on April 29, 2022. By Rachelle Stoll Photos by Trevor Cokley U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, COLO., -- Cadets honored famed World War II pilots the Tuskegee Airmen with a ceremony featuring one of the group’s original members, a 21-gun salute and a mural honoring their legacy at the United States Air Force Academy April 29. The all-Black combat pilots and support staff assigned to the Army Air Corps’ 332nd Fighter Group at... Continue Reading Academy celebrates the legacy of the Tuskegee Airmen 1 2 3 … 74 Next Page Explore More By The Numbers Cadet Awards ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.