Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Conflict of Interest Knowledge Center Clemson University's leadership is leading a campaign to ensure that we have achieved 100 percent participation in University-required training, including the annual requirement of conflict of interest training. Tiger Training, Clemson's training management system, is your portal to specific University training requirements and deadlines, and InfoEd is the system you access to complete disclosures. 3 Easy Steps Visit Tiger Training Log In Complete Conflict of Interest training. If appropriate, disclose any conflicts of interest. Access InfoEd to complete your disclosure (if you have a potential conflict of interest). Access InfoEd For Assistance, Review our Frequently Asked Questions, Contact a Training Ambassador or Contact Us. General Resources Conflict of Interest Policy Conflict of Interest FAQs Tiger Training FAQs Tiger Training Access Ask a Question Research-Specific Resources Research Policy Conflict of Interest Committee Travel Funding Agency Guidelines Consulting Policy Access the Umbrella Conflict of Interest Policy. CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top