Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad News + Events Resources FAQs Exhibitions + Guidelines Student Exhibitions Exhibitions are a vibrant aspect of the creative life at Brown University. There are many opportunities for students to submit their work for juried, curated or open calls across campus. The List Art Building houses exhibition spaces that are primarily dedicated, during the academic year, to the display of student work. Space is assigned to students one semester in advance by lottery. During the Spring semester the List Art Building Student Galleries are almost exclusively dedicated to the exhibition of Senior Capstone Exhibitions. Other galleries that support the exhibit of student work are located in the Granoff Center for Creative Arts, the Faunce Student Center, Hillel Center and the Sarah Doyle Gallery. General Exhibition Proposal Form.pdf Annual Juried Student Exhibition This exhibition is held in the spring semester of each year and is organized by a committee of students working collaboratively with Department of Visual Art staff, and other partnering organizations administrators. The committee has a faculty advisor, who is available to assist in organizing a comprehensive exhibition at one of the galleries located on Brown University's campus. The work of the committee includes publicity, hanging, opening, etc. Appointed jurors decide which submissions will be shown and award prizes that are announced during the opening reception. Capstone Experience Concentrators are required to produce a body of work and, during their senior year, mount a week-long exhibit in one of our student galleries. Students are supported in this endeavor by our Gallery Coordinator, who provides information to students about the professional protocols for exhibit installation. Students are assigned gallery space one semester in advance. Seniors work closely with their Concentration Advisor and the Gallery Coordinator to define the scope of their work and identify the specific installation requirements for their show. Once the show is installed, seniors are required to have their show critiqued by two faculty members. Senior Capstone Exhibitions are required to be up for a period of one week. Designated exhibition locations within the List Art Building include the first floor inner lobby, the second floor hallway, Gallery 221 (on the second floor), the third floor hallway, and the fifth floor hallway. Other student exhibition spaces are available outside of the List Art Building with prior approval from a faculty advisor and the VA Gallery Coordinator. Dates and List Art Building spaces for Senior Capstone Exhibitions are determined by lottery. The first semester lottery takes place in September, and the second semester lottery takes place in November. For Senior Capstone Exhibitions, students must select a faculty advisor and two faculty jurors during the week following the lottery. (The faculty advisor can be one of the jurors.) During the period of the exhibition, the student must arrange a critique with both jurors. The student must obtain the signatures of each juror on a provided form and return it to the Visual Art office immediately following the critiques. It is the student's responsibility to submit a proposal to the Gallery Coordinator outlining the general characteristics of their exhibition. The proposal should include: Location of the exhibition. Specific type of art work to be displayed (If there is an audio component, it cannot interfere with classes in nearby classrooms). Drawings of construction, if the exhibition space is to be altered. A detailed list of any special treatment of the floor. Any anticipated alteration of the lights or other electrical apparatuses. Any paints and solvent that will be used in setting up the exhibition. If creating an installation, a list of the materials that the student intends to use. Any assistance required regarding technical aspects that the student may be unsure of. The student is responsible for all aspects of the exhibition, i.e. hanging, lighting, painting, a thorough clean-up of the area, announcements, receptions, etc. All undergraduate social events at Brown University must follow the Procedures for the Planning & Management of Social Functions. More information is available at the Student Activities Office. Senior Exhibition Form.pdf Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected]Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat