Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Alumni/ae & Friends How to Get Involved Annual Conference Events in Your Area Annual Conference Events in Your Area 2022 Perkins Annual Conference Gatherings for Friends, Alums Friends, Alumni/ae and current or prospective students of Perkins School of Theology are invited to attend the 2022 Annual Conference gatherings. Faculty and staff of Perkins School of Theology will be present and will provide programs and updates. If you didn't receive your annual conference event invitation via e-mail, please update your alum information here. Watch here for reservation information and event details. Note: There is no cost for prospective students invited as guests of Perkins School of Theology. Join us in 2022 to reconnect with classmates and colleagues and meet new friends! The Oklahoma Annual Conference meets May 23 – 26 at Oklahoma City University’s Freede Center in Oklahoma City. Attending from Perkins: Andy Keck. A lunchtime event for Perkins alumni/ae and friends is planned for Wednesday, May 25 at St. Luke's UMC at 12:30 p.m. Click here to register and pay for the luncheon ($15). The Texas Annual Conference meets May 29 through June 1 at the Hilton Hotel Americas in Houston. Participating from Perkins: Dean Hill, Connie Nelson, Hugo Magallanes, Dallas Gingles. Stephen Bagby. An alumni/ae and friends event is planned for Tuesday, May 31 at noon. Click here to register and pay for the luncheon ($35). The Arkansas Annual Conference meets June 1 – 4 at Hot Springs Convention Center in Hot Springs, Ark. Matt Jacob and Bart Patton plan to attend. An alumni/ae and friends event is scheduled for Wednesday, June 1 at 6:30 p.m. at Rolando's Restaurante, 210 Central Ave, Hot Springs National Park, AR. Dinner is self-pay and most plates are $10-20. Click here to RSVP by May 30 if you plan to attend. The North Texas Annual Conference meets June 5 – 7 at First UMC Richardson. Dean Hill, Stephen Bagby, Connie Nelson, Hugo Magallanes, John Martin, Matt Jacob, and Rachel Holmes plan to attend. A Perkins alumni/ae and friends gathering will take place Tuesday, June 7 at 7 a.m. at First UMC Richardson. Click here to register and pay for the breakfast ($15). The Rio Texas Annual Conference runs June 8 – 11 at the McAllen Convention Center, 700 Convention Center Blvd, McAllen, TX. Dean Hill, Hugo Magallanes and Caleb Palmer plan to attend. An alumni/ae and friends event takes place Thursday, June 9 at 6:30 - 8:30 p.m. in Room 103AB at McAllen Convention Center. Click here to register and pay for the dinner ($35). The Great Plains Annual Conference runs June 8 – 11 at the LaVista Conference Center, 12520 Westport Pkwy, La Vista, NE. From Perkins, Andy Keck will attend. There is no alumni/ae and friends event planned. The Florida Annual Conference meets June 9 – 11 at Florida Southern College’s Branscomb Auditorium in Lakeland, FL. Dean Hill, Hugo Magallanes and Matt Jacob plan to attend. An alumni/ae and friends event is planned for Friday, June 10 at 5:30 in the President's Dining Room in the Charles T. Thrift building. The meal is free for all who RSVP by June 3. Click here to RSVP for the dinner. The Oklahoma Indian Missionary Annual Conference meets June 10 – 12 in Anadarko, OK. Melissa Hernandez-Probus will attend from Perkins. An alumni/ae and friends gathering is planned for Saturday, June 11 at noon in Cabin 3. The Missouri Annual Conference runs June 11 – 12, with an optional June 10 Learning Day, at Branson Convention Center, 200 S Sycamore Street, Branson, MO. Heather Gottas Moore will represent Perkins. There is no alumni/ae and friends event planned. The Central Texas Annual Conference runs June 12 – 14 at First UMC of Fort Worth, 800 W 5th St, Fort Worth, TX. John Martin and Matt Jacob will attend. An alumni/ae and friends event is scheduled for Tuesday, June 14 at 7:30 a.m. at First UMC of Fort Worth, Room 334. Click here to register and pay for the breakfast ($15). The Louisiana Annual Conference will gather June 14 - 17 at River Center, 527 North Blvd., Baton Rouge, LA. Heather Gottas Moore and Matt Jacob will attend from Perkins. An alumni/ae and friends luncheon is planned for Wednesday, June 15 at 11:30 a.m. at FUMC Baton Rouge, Room 117, Adult Building. Parking is available at the church. Click here to register and pay for the luncheon ($20). The New Mexico Annual Conference meets June 14 – 16 at Las Cruces Convention Center, 680 E University Ave., Las Cruces, NM. Hugo Magallanes and Connie Nelson will attend from Perkins. There is no alumni/ae and friends event scheduled. The Northwest Texas Annual Conference will gather June 16 - 17 at Overton Hotel & Conference Center, 2322 Mac Davis Lane in Lubbock, TX 79401. Connie Nelson will attend from Perkins. There is no alumni/ae and friends event scheduled. How to Get Involved Perkins Alumni/ae Council Annual Conference Events in Your Area Lay Advisory Board Alumni/ae Giving Public Programs Refer a Prospective Student to Perkins An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share