Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid HEERF Reporting HEERF Frequently Asked Questions HEERF Frequently Asked Questions General HEERF FAQ’s What does HEERF stand for? HEERF is an acronym for the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund. How will I receive the HEERF funds? HEERF Funds will be distributed directly to students through Chase Bank’s QuickPay®. Funds will not be disbursed to your SMU student account. You will be required to set up a Chase QuickPay® account if you have not done so already. However, you are NOT required to have a valid checking or savings account with Chase Bank in order to use the QuickPay®service. Anyone with a U.S. bank account can receive money through Chase QuickPay® regardless of which bank they use. When funds are ready, you will receive an email from SMU and a separate email from Chase with instructions on how to accept the funds. What is a Federal EFC and where can I find mine? Your Federal EFC, or Expected Family Contribution, is calculated as part of the FAFSA process and is used to determine eligibility for need-based federal, state, and institutional aid programs. The EFC can be found on the Student Aid Report (SAR) that the student receives after filing the FAFSA. To view your Federal EFC or view your full Student Aid Report, go to the FAFSA website, www.FAFSA.gov. What if I don’t have a U.S. bank account or can’t complete the QuickPay® setup process? QuickPay® is the easiest and by far the fastest way to receive your money. If you don’t have a U.S. bank account or encounter other problems, contact the Division of Enrollment Services at enrol_serv@smu.edu or 214-768-3417. Can I have the funds applied to the balance on my SMU student account or toward summer/fall tuition? You will receive the payment directly through Chase QuickPay®. If you wish, you may then use that money to make a payment to your SMU student account with SMUpay. I did not qualify for funds under the HEERF I or HEERF II programs, but I still need help with expenses directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Are there any other funds available to help people like me? SMU recognizes that the COVID-19 pandemic is creating a financial burden for many of our students and their families. There are additional sources of assistance available to students who did not necessarily qualify for HEERF assistance, but continue to experience financial hardship due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Student's with additional needs should contact the Office of Financial Aid to determine eligibility for emergency assistance from programs that are not funded through HEERF. In addition, the Office of Student Support is also accepting requests for emergency funds though the Caring Community Connections (CCC) program. Are HEERF grants considered to be taxable income? It is our understanding that HEERF funds are not counted as Estimated Financial Assistance, taxable income, or untaxed income. However, students should refer to irs.gov for guidance and latest information on emergency relief given through educational institutions. Who do I contact with additional questions about the HEERF funding? Questions related to HEERF funding should be directed to the Division of Enrollment Services at enrol_serv@smu.edu HEERF I FAQ’s Where are the HEERF I funds coming from? HEERF I was authorized by The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) which was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Approval of $2.2 trillion in funding provided fast and direct economic aid to the American people negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Approximately $14 billion was given to the U.S. Department of Education Office of Postsecondary Education as the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF). What criteria was used to determine eligibility for the HEERF I funding? Following the guidance received from U.S. Department of Education, funds received as part of the CARES Act will be distributed to SMU students who have the greatest demonstrated financial need and potential for financial hardship due to the ongoing pandemic. To be eligible, students must meet the following criteria: Enrolled as of April 30th for the Spring 2020 term. Eligible to receive Federal Title IV funding as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Received Federal Title IV grants or loans for the spring 2020 term. For undergraduate students, received need-based aid for the spring term. For graduate and professional students, received federal or state loans for the spring 2020 term. Enrolled in a campus-based academic program. Students enrolled in online programs are not eligible for HEERF I funding. How much will I receive in HEERF I funding? Award amount is based on the FAFSA Expected Family Contribution (EFC). Eligible students with an official EFC up to $5,576 will receive $1500. Eligible students with an official EFC between $5,577 and $10,000 will receive $1,000. When can I expect to receive my HEERF I funds? SMU is working hard to distribute these funds as quickly as possible. We anticipate being able to notify students of funds availability by May 4, 2020. Once your Chase QuickPay® account has been set up, and funds accepted, your funds could be deposited and available for same-day use, depending on your bank. However, we ask that you allow three business days before contacting our offices. HEERF II FAQ’s Where are the HEERF II funds coming from? HEERF II funding was authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA), Public Law 116-260, signed into law on December 27, 2020. The CRRSAA authorizes $21.2 billion to higher education institutions to ensure learning continues for students during the COVID-19 pandemic. What criteria was used to determine eligibility for the HEERF II funding? Following the guidance received from U.S. Department of Education, funds received as part of the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) will be distributed to SMU students who have the greatest demonstrated financial need and potential for financial hardship due to the ongoing pandemic. To be eligible, students must meet the following criteria: Enrolled as of March 29, 2021 for the Spring 2021 term. Must have completed and submitted the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Received Title IV grants or Federal/State loans for the spring 2021 term. Undergraduate students must have need-based aid disbursed to their student account for the Spring 2021 as of March 29, 2021, or has earnings during the Spring 2021 term from a Federal or State work study program. Graduate and professional students must have net proceeds from a Federal or State student loan program disbursed to their student account for the Spring 2021 term. How much will I receive in HEERF II funding? Award amount is based on the FAFSA Expected Family Contribution (EFC). Eligible students with an official EFC up to $5,711 will receive $1500. Eligible students with an official EFC between $5,712 and $10,000 will receive $1,000. When can I expect to receive my HEERF II funds? SMU is working hard to distribute these funds as quickly as possible. We anticipate being able to notify students of funds availability by April 12, 2021. Once your Chase QuickPay® account has been set up, and funds accepted, your funds could be deposited and available for same-day use, depending on your bank. However, we ask that you allow three business days before contacting our offices. HEERF Reporting HEERF I - Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES) HEERF II - Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) HEERF III - American Rescue Plan (ARP) of 2021 HEERF Frequently Asked Questions Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share