Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Agricultural Education and Studies Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Open dropdown menu Department History Documents Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Open dropdown menu Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Resources International Agriculture Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Program Today's ever-changing world is increasingly populated, urbanized, and interconnected. These changes create an emerging global environment where globally oriented agriculturalists can play a significant role. This increased leadership responsibility in the international marketplace necessitates that agriculturalists broaden their knowledge and understanding about how agricultural practices and policies influence global dynamics. To assist undergraduate students in preparing for these new positions of leadership, the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences offers a curriculum in International Agriculture Program. This is an interdisciplinary undergraduate program designed to provide future leaders with an opportunity to pursue a secondary major or minor in international agriculture. The flexibility of the International Agriculture Program allows students to individualize their learning experiences by focusing their coursework on the global aspects of their primary major. Students in this program can study subject matter in international economics, food security, crop diversity, soil fertility, seed science, sustainable development, or cultural relations. To broaden students' applied global knowledge, the program incorporates a combination of interdisciplinary coursework, internships, and study abroad experiences. Program participants have the opportunity to improve their knowledge of international agriculture while learning to apply their knowledge and skills outside the classroom. Practical insight gained by participation in the International Agriculture Program can improve a student's career placement opportunities by involving them with international activities and agencies that can assist them with developing their personal skills and networks. These experiences combine to refine a participant's critical thinking and problem-solving skills as well as enhance understanding of the analysis and management of global agriculture issues at home and abroad. Secondary Major To be eligible for a secondary major in International Agriculture, a student must declare a primary undergraduate major in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. The course plan for the secondary major includes classes selected from an *approved list consisting of courses with international content that meet the unique needs and interests of individual students. A secondary major requires 30 credit hours; 15 of the total credit hours can only be used for the secondary major and cannot be used to satisfy any other academic requirements. Students interested in earning a secondary major in international agriculture should contact their program advisor early in their program to ensure efficient course scheduling. Minor A minor in international agriculture is open to undergraduate students studying any major with an interest in international agriculture issues. The course plan for the minor also includes courses selected from an *approved list consisting of courses with international content that meet the unique needs and interests of individual students. A minor requires 15 credit hours; 9 of the total credit hours can only be used for the minor and cannot be used to satisfy any other academic requirements. Students interested in pursuing a minor in International Agriculture should contact their program advisor early in their program to ensure efficient course scheduling. For more information about the International Agriculture Program, please contact your academic advisor, or Dr. Ebby Luvaga, 174A Heady Hall; Phone 515-294-5765; e-mail: luvaga@iastate.edu. *Check with your advisor to verify approved courses. Undergraduate Resources Undergraduate Programs Agricultural Studies Agriculture & Life Sciences Education Teacher Certification Agriculture & Life Sciences Communication Teacher Education Field Experiences International Agriculture Interdisciplinary Undergraduate Program Undergraduate Student Organizations Undergraduate Student Resources Agricultural Education Club Agricultural Education & Studies 201 Curtiss Hall agedsinfo@iastate.edu Phone: (515) 294-5872 Social media Twitter Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information