Search this website Texas A&M College of Science Calendar Directory Contact Menu Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Pre-Med, Pre-Vet, Pre-Dent, Pre-Law Teacher Certification Science Advantage Programs Science Leadership Scholars Scholarships & Financial Aid Degrees Biology Chemistry Mathematics Physics & Astronomy Statistics Materials Science & Engineering University Studies Fast-Track Programs Online Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Science Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program REU Programs Faculty Research Interests Centers, Institutes, Laboratories Faculty Diversity News Events Outreach Giving Give Now Academy of Distinguished Former Students External Advisory & Development Council Science Now About Office of the Dean Video Studio Contact History Contact Directory The College of Arts & Sciences The colleges of Geosciences, Liberal Arts, and Science are becoming the College of Arts and Sciences in Fall 2022. As the academic heart of Texas A&M, the College of Arts and Sciences will provide world-class teaching, research, service and resources. Learn More College of Science Be Curious Biology Biology Read More Chemistry Chemistry Read More Mathematics Mathematics Read More Physics & Astronomy Physics & Astronomy Read More Statistics Statistics Read More News See all of the latest news Texas A&M Biology Major Annabel Perry Finds Place in World of Science Through Research Every picture tells a story. One of Annabel Perry’s childhood favorites features her as a grinning 10-year-old clutching a gigantic bullfrog, a slightly out-of-focus snapshot of both place and time that captures her budding interest in the natural world and her future as a scientist — a career path and underlying passion accelerated by undergraduate research and key faculty mentors at Texas A&M University. This little girl with the bullfrog, however, didn't start out with all the tools she needed to succeed as a scientist. Perry, who was homeschooled as a child in Milford, Texas, grew up believing that women were less logical than men, evolution was not real and human behaviors were not biologically determined. She didn't seriously question those beliefs until, at the age of 16 after researching [...] Read more about Texas A&M Biology Major Annabel Perry Finds Place in World of Science Through ResearchRead More Chemistry, Faculty, Gift Advancing Chemistry Research May 27, 2022 Texas A&M chemist Wenshe Ray Liu has been appointed as the inaugural holder of the Harry E. Bovay, Jr. Endowed Chair in Chemistry, recently created by combining gifts from two Texas-based philanthropic organizations and 2022 Texas A&M Distinguished Alumnus Thomas W. Powell '62 to establish a $1 million endowment dedicated to advancing chemistry research at Texas A&M. Chemistry, Former Student, Graduate, Research Trash to Treasure May 20, 2022 1990 Texas A&M chemistry Ph.D. graduate Carl McAfee is leading an innovative effort through his Kennedale-based company, McAfee Consulting LLC, to turn recycled rubber and scrap plastics into various composite materials poised to make a major impact across economic, environmental and national security sectors. Faculty, Mathematics, Teaching Top Texas A&M Teacher May 06, 2022 Congratulations to Texas A&M mathematician Jennifer Whitfield, one of five faculty members who have been appointed to 2022 University Professorships in Undergraduate Teaching Excellence (UPUTE) at Texas A&M University. Research arrow-wrap Research | Discover Get Connected Follow, Connect, & Interact with the College of Science. Contact About arrow-wrap-alt Past | Present | Future Get To Know Our Finest From current and former students to faculty, staff, and donors, phenomenal people aren't merely the exception in the College of Science; they're the rule. Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Donor Julia '19 and Josiah Day '19 CHEMISTRY 101 Texas A&M chemist Simon North received his most unique student request to date when two of his freshman chemistry former students, Julia Santell '19 and Josiah Day '19, asked him to officiate at their August 17 wedding. The rest, as they say, is history — er, chemistry. Learn More Taylor Hutchison '22 SEEING STARS Texas A&M astronomy graduate student Taylor Hutchison '22 studies some of the most distant galaxies ever found, using some of the largest telescopes on Earth to do so. Learn more about her passion for science and the stars as well as the exhilarating potential of living a dream come true. Learn More Jennifer Dulin '05 GOING BIG BY GOING HOME Twelve years after earning her bachelor's in biochemistry at Texas A&M, biologist Jennifer Dulin '05 got the full-circle chance to return to Texas A&M, where she's pursuing her life's work of making the best of one of the worst situations currently affecting the lives of more than 300,000 people in the United States alone — spinal cord injury. Learn More Ahmed Mahmoud '87 DRIVING FORCE Ahmed Mahmoud '87 transformed his love of physics into innovative leadership at General Motors, where his team develops technology to predict vehicular malfunctions before they happen. Learn more about Mahmoud and why he views Texas A&M as a foundational opportunity for students and potential employers like GM seeking independent-thinking problem-solvers — in part due to undergraduate research. Learn More Make Your Own Way Email the undergrad office> Visit Us Learn more about Texas A&M Homepage> Learn How to Apply Events at the College of Science Support the College of Science 517 Blocker TAMU 3257 | 979-845-7361 Site Policies Contact Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Transfer Pre-Med, Pre-Vet, Pre-Dent, Pre-Law Teacher Certification Science Advantage Programs Science Leadership Scholars Scholarships & Financial Aid Research Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Science Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program REU Programs Faculty Research Interests Centers, Institutes, Laboratories Degrees Biology Chemistry Mathematics Physics & Astronomy Statistics University Studies Materials Science and Engineering Fast-Track Programs Online Events Outreach Faculty Diversity News Subscribe to Our Newsletter Toolbox Giving Give Now Academy of Distinguished Former Students External Advisory & Development Council Science Now About Directory Contact Office of the Dean Video Studio History State of Texas The Texas A&M University System Texas A&M University Accessibility Site Policies Linking Notice Contact Us