COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW McNair Scholars Program Section Menu McNair Home About McNair About Us Contact Program Benefits Alumni Newsletters Journals Symposium What Is Trio? Links Forms Calendar of Activities Apply Now The McNair Scholars Program office will not be available for drop-in visits or meetings after Thanksgiving. All student meetings will be virtual or by appointment in-person through the end of the fall semester. Please contact the office with any questions: 316-978-3139 or mcnairscholars@wichita.edu. Prospective Scholars About McNair Calendar Now Accepting Applications for the 2022-2023 Academic Year! Wichita State University is proud to host the prestigious Ronald E. McNair Post-baccalaureate Achievement Program, a federal TRIO Program 100% funded by the U.S. Department of Education. This project, also known as the McNair Scholars Program, was established in 1986 by the U.S. Department of Education. The Program identifies and prepares 28 eligible WSU students for graduate studies leading to the Ph.D. by providing research training and early scholarly experiences to high-achieving undergraduates. These experiences give students opportunities to define goals and develop critical skills needed for success at the doctoral level. The Program is named in honor of deceased NASA astronaut and Challenger space shuttle crewmember Ronald E. McNair, Ph.D.Wichita State's Program started in October 1995. The Program offers research participation, scholarly experiences and preparation for graduate school. Students are encouraged to pursue graduate study in preparation for careers as college-level professors and researchers. To be eligible for the program, students must meet the following criteria: Have U.S. citizen or permanent resident status. Be enrolled at WSU full-time with sophomore, junior or senior standing. Have a cumulative GPA of 2.75 or 3.0 in the last 60 credit hours. Students must meet at least one of the following criteria: First generation and low income OR A member of a traditionally underrepresented group in graduate education, such as African American, American Indian/Alaskan Native, Hispanic/Latino and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander. WSU Office of Special Programs Student Research Council for Opportunity in Education U.S. Department of Education Gates Millennium Scholarship Program Graduate School Directory McNair Application Incentives for Graduate School WSU Graduate School Find us on Facebook 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©