Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal OPENING FALL 2022 The Suites are Housing and Residential Engagement's newest addition to the CSUF housing community Student Housing Suites The new 600-bed student housing complex will enhance our housing community by increasing our total capacity to over 2,200 students. These suite-style housing spaces are specifically geared towards returning sophomores and above. Each Suite will house eight students in an apartment with 4 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, and a small kitchenette. Every floor will have three Active Rooms, common spaces for residents to socialize or study. Each Active Room includes a TV, an activity table, and plenty of lounge space. The Titan Lounge is a new community space for studying and socializing and leads to a laundry room and the outdoor courtyard. Additional spaces include a large multipurpose room that can seat up to 200 people, an additional mailroom, and new Residential Engagement staff offices so that our team can better serve the students in our new addition to the housing community. Suites Tour This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 5/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.