COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Classical Studies, Major MajorClassical Studies All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Modern and Classical Languages and Literatures Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) field major in classical studies allows you to focus your studies in multiple areas of interest—equipping you with skills and knowledge tailored to your career goals or graduate school plans. The classical studies emphasis serves as a sound preparation for areas in which sensitivity to language and ideas is an important tool—from the classics, linguistics, ancient history and art history to archaeology, comparative literature, law, religion and Near Eastern studies. Learn how classical studies is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The major consists of 36 credit hours selected from a list of approved courses determined by the Department of Modern Classical Languages and Literatures. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU's extensive network of employer connections, field majors have opportunities to gain real-world experience in diverse areas—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs History Anthropology Art History Political Science English Linguistics (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©