Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories About Research Baylor>About Baylor>Values & Vision>Top-Tier Academics>Research About Research As part of the international community of scholars, Baylor University serves the world through research discoveries and creative endeavors that illuminate solutions to significant challenges confronting our world. Our institution's Christian foundation offers distinctive insights into issues such as social responsibility, health care, economic growth, human rights, poverty, diversity, sustainability, and our understanding of our identity as human beings within the created order. Discover Baylor Research, and how we are impacting the world today. Research and Discovery At the crossroads of scientific research and Christian faith, Baylor offers a unique path to the quest for new knowledge. Here, teaching and discovery, fact and faith, professor and student all work together. To challenge minds. To change the world. Sniffing Out Cancer It's not just about building the first mechanical dog's nose. It's greater than that. Saving Lives It's not just about saving the eye of a child. It's greater than that. Building Healthier Lives It's not just about igniting the engine of small business. It's greater than that. Saving the Oceans It's not just about tracking the longest-living mammal. It's greater than that. Helping Families Heal It's not just about decrypting the mysteries of the unknown. It's greater than that. Unlocking the Patterns of Life It's not just about unearthing a microbial treasure. It's greater than that. Ensuring Clean Water It's not just about reducing chemicals in our water. It's greater than that. Ending Hunger in America It's not just about feeding every family in Texas. It's greater than that. Stopping the Spread of Disease It's not just about surviving the kiss of death. It's greater than that. Learn more about Research at Baylor Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Research and Discovery Sniffing Out Cancer Saving Lives Building Healthier Lives Saving the Oceans Helping Families Heal Unlocking the Patterns of Life Ensuring Clean Water Ending Hunger in America Stopping the Spread of Disease Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories