Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Career Services Personalized Career Paths Our students arrive at Tuck with professional experience and career aspirations as diverse as they are. While each student cultivates their own path to what comes next professionally, Tuck Career Services provides tools, resources, and support to empower you to identify and reach your goals. World-Class Career Advisers Tuck's career advisers bring together a wealth of industry expertise to develop personalized post-MBA career strategies, while industry treks take you to the world's most dynamic cities to tour firms, engage with industry leaders, and meet Tuck alumni. Post-MBA Success More than 1,000 companies and organizations recruit Tuck students—propelling our graduates to employment levels and compensation rates at or near the highest of those of the top MBA programs worldwide. Support from the Tuck Network Combine this with the most responsive alumni network in the world and it's easy to see why our graduates lead the way in measures of MBA employment success. Class of 2021 98% of 2021 graduates had job offers three months post graduation 2021 Employment Statistics 2020 Employment Report Career Stories Pivot. Change Careers. Find your calling. At Tuck we understand your aspirations and partner with you as you embark on the path to achieving them. Explore some of the career pathways of our students and alumni and begin charting yours today. Technology Driven by Inclusive Community-Building For Katherine Britt T’21, who is soon headed to HubSpot, a Tuck MBA was the critical bridge from where she was, to where she wanted to be. Read More Driven by Inclusive Community-Building "My Tuck experience gave me clarity on who I am and how I want to show up—as a leader, colleague, friend, neighbor." Before Tuck Donor Relations, Office of Development, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA; Business Development, Artists for Humanity, Boston, MA Summer Internship Go-To-Market Strategy, HubSpot, Cambridge, MA After Tuck Accelerated Leadership Program at HubSpot, Cambridge, Massachusetts Read More × Finance Finding Her Purpose An African immigrant, a first generation college student, and a mother of two who is headed to Credit Suisse in LA, Linda Horner T’20 is empowering others to become their best selves. Read More Finding Her Purpose "At Tuck, I have witnessed the power that comes when you commit to finding your purpose: the intersection of your passions, skill set, and the problems that need to be solved in your community and the world at large. For me, this transformation occurred with my newfound conviction to use the mentoring skills gained at Tuck, to empower others to become a better version of themselves. The Tuck MBA has helped me to see where my piece fits within the jigsaw puzzle that is our world." Before Tuck Audit Project Manager, Aetna Health Summer Internship Investment banking summer associate, Credit Suisse, Los Angeles, CA After Tuck Investment banking associate, Credit Suisse, Los Angeles, CA Read More × Healthcare Sophia Cornew T'19 For Sophia Cornew T’19, who is headed to a health care startup after Tuck, an MBA gave her the critical problem-solving skills needed to look around corners and understand the forces that come together to build a successful business. Read More Sophia Cornew T'19 Read More × Technology True Collaboration For Brendan Berry T’20, who is headed into the tech sector in San Francisco, Tuck brought true meaning to the word community. Read More True Collaboration "The learning environment at Tuck forces you to truly learn what it means to work as a team. Beginning with your first days on campus, Tuck matches you with a diverse study group, carefully crafting teams with geographic and professional diversity. Through countless projects, you are forced to learn your individual strengths and weaknesses, and how to work collectively to achieve a common goal. While this may seem basic in nature, most students arrive to business school having had a long history of professional success based on their own efforts. However, Tuck teaches you that organizational success requires true collaboration—and the school works hard to foster an environment to build skills necessary to achieve organizational success." Before Tuck Amazon.com, senior product manager technical at Prime Now Summer Internship Slack Technologies in San Francisco in a strategy role After Tuck Headed to San Francisco to continue his career in product management at a technology company. Read More × Consulting Be Brave—My Tuck Mantra At Tuck, Caroline Wells T’20 learned how to step out of her comfort zone, and step up as a leader. Read More Be Brave—My Tuck Mantra "I was drawn to Tuck specifically for its focus on transformation. I wanted to attend a business school where I could be confident that I would be a different person leaving than I was going in—a place that would challenge me, push me outside my comfort zone, and encourage me to really reflect on my goals and values. Tuck enables transformation because it creates a safe space for you to test ideas and fail. It encourages you to approach challenges from new perspectives and to confront your own pre-conceived ideas and biases. I’ve become a more confident and decisive leader because I’ve had the opportunity to develop, defend, and implement my ideas in a trusted and supportive community. Transformation takes work, trust, and confidence, but the end result is so worth it." Before Tuck Deloitte Consulting, Global Public Sector Practice, Washington, DC Summer Internship Google Trust & Safety Team After Tuck Deloitte Consulting, Commercial Practice, Washington, DC Read More × General Management Shifting Gears Obinna Arizor T’19 thought he was coming to Tuck to become a consultant. But being in Hanover allowed him to stretch and explore other exciting opportunities. Read More Shifting Gears "I expected to enhance my quantitative ability and business acumen as a Tuck student. Not only have I done so, but I have grown personally, built relationships with lifelong friends/allies, and developed the confidence to truly effect the change I would like to see in business and society." Before Tuck Education Pioneers, summer fellow, iMentor 2017; Faith Christian Academy, assistant director, 2012 – 2017 Summer Internship McKinsey & Company, summer associate, Chicago, Illinois After Tuck J.P. Morgan Chase, Chase Associate Program (CAP) associate Read More × Marketing Transformed through Community Kathy Liao T’20 came to Tuck to benefit from a community of people who would help her thrive. Read More Transformed through Community "At Tuck I’ve had the opportunity to: meet amazing classmates from around the world who broadened my perspective; to reflect on my life and how my experiences have shaped me into the person I am today; to better understand what values are most important to me, how to more intentionally live my life, and to become a better version of myself; to become more accepting of myself and more confident in my abilities; to learn more about my strengths and weaknesses, and the type of team member and leader I am." Before Tuck Market research and analytics at trueX, a digital advertising startup that was acquired by 21st Century Fox Summer Internship Microsoft, product marketing manager—partner marketing focused on cybersecurity in Redmond, WA After Tuck Microsoft Marketing Rotational Program in Redmond, WA Read More × Financial Services A Career in Finance by Way of Health Care After Tuck, Mayur Kasetty T’16 brings the knowledge and experiences gained through his dual degree (MD/MBA) at Dartmouth to the banking industry, in Goldman Sachs’s Consumer Retail and Health Care Group. Read More A Career in Finance by Way of Health Care Before Tuck Full-time medical student Summer Internship Goldman Sachs, investment banking summer associate, Consumer Retail and Health Care Group, New York, N.Y. After Tuck Goldman Sachs, Consumer Retail and Health Care Group, New York, N.Y. Read More × Consulting A Passion for Education Equity At Tuck, T’20 Suzy Wang developed teachDELTA, an education startup that was a finalist for the Teach for America Social Innovation Award and the winner of the Amazon Alexa Grant. Read More A Passion for Education Equity "I applied to Tuck because I realized that in order to implement long-term change in education, I needed business training to complement my policy and teaching backgrounds. As a high school math teacher, I loved working with students and seeing their learning happen in real time. However, students face many systemic barriers to equity outside of the classroom. Poverty and school financing practices rooted in institutional racism disproportionately disadvantage students of color, and meaningful change requires advocacy and management across sectors." Before Tuck Secondary math teacher in New Orleans; Field Organizer for Obama 2012 campaign Summer Internship Boston Consulting Group, Atlanta After Tuck Boston Consulting Group, Atlanta Read More × Social Impact From Photography to Sustainable Fashion Leveraging Tuck’s Revers Center for Energy and the Center for Business, Government & Society, Kevin Yuan T’20 was able to pivot to his dream career: sustainable fashion. Read More From Photography to Sustainable Fashion "Tuck has allowed me to transform my professional career in a way that is truly unimaginable. Thanks to the tremendous assets in place at Tuck, I was able to transform from an engineer and photographer to a leader in the sustainable fashion space. From alumna Andrea Perez T’08, who graciously welcomed me to Portland and arranged for a full day of MBA visits stretching across the Nike organization, to Tuck being the only business school in the world to be invited to the UN Climate Conferences, to the tremendous mentorship I received from April Salas of the Revers Center and John McKinley of CBGS, I am eternally grateful for the opportunities I have been granted to allow for such a transformation." Before Tuck Project Engineer, Chevron Summer Internship Sustainability and Innovation, Nike After Tuck North America Sustainability Manager, Nike Read More × Industrial Goods A New Perspective Coming to Tuck from Mexico, Enrique graduates with a General Management career at Cargill in the U.S., and a level of personal growth that cannot be quantified. Read More A New Perspective "After spending almost three years working in management consulting at Bain & Co., I had never even heard of Professor Vijay Govindarajan's approach to strategy. But in his class, Implementing Strategy, he shifted my entire perspective on strategy, from leadership, to business model execution, to reverse innovation. We tend to see strategy as a holistic approach to operating a business, but in this course I was able to see the intricacies of implementation and the importance of aligning all relevant factors. The importance of implementing strategy—taking your thoughts to actions—was one of the most useful career concepts I developed. The class was absolutely fantastic." Before Tuck Rocket Internet GMBH (Linio.com.mx), head of customer care, Mexico City Mexico, 2013; Bain & Company Inc., senior associate consultant, Mexico City, Mexico, 2010 - 2012 Summer Internship Goldman Sachs & Co., summer associate, investment banking, Mexico City, Mexico After Tuck Cargill, Corporate Strategy and Development, Minneapolis, Minn. Read More × Real Estate A Future in Real Estate A former officer in the U.S. Army, Courtney leaves Tuck with plans to create positive impact through the built environment in her real estate role at Hines. Read More A Future in Real Estate "Professor John Vogel has been instrumental in guiding me in the real estate industry. I don’t think I realized when I came to Tuck how uniquely positioned we are as students to be able to benefit from the experience and intuition of the faculty here. Many of the Tuck faculty and staff, like Professor Vogel, take the time to understand the full perspective of what you’re looking for within your personal and professional life and are able to glean the experience you’ve had in the past in order to most effectively advise you on your future. I have certainly benefited from this type of authentic engagement on my path into real estate." Before Tuck United States Army Officer Summer Internship Barclays Investment Banking Division (Real Estate Group), summer associate, New York, N.Y. After Tuck Hines, associate, Washington, D.C. Read More × Social Impact Finance Meets Social Good Muyambi leverages his newly gained, hands-on finance skills at Tuck to improve the organization he founded, Bicycles against Poverty, in Uganda. Read More Finance Meets Social Good "At Tuck, I’ve really been able to focus on strategy for my organization. Every class at Tuck helps me tell the message of our organization better and better. Professor Paul Argenti, for example, talked a lot about core competency and identifying what you’re really good at. It made me think, Are we really good at distributing bikes? Or are we better at financing bikes? That message really resonated with what we were trying to do and reinforced when we were taking the right approach." Before Tuck Clark Construction, engineer Summer Internship UBS Asset Management, analyst, Chicago Read More × Keith Hollis T'17 "Tuck Career Services has an unmatched ability to identify a student's desires and abilities and pair them with opportunities that are made through leveraging the Tuck network." Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Tuck 360: MBA Blog Career News 2020 MBA Employment Data Affirms the Power of the... Resilient amid a global crisis, Tuck graduates and students steadily secure jobs and internships—and set a new record in MBA compensation. Career News A Summer of On-The-Job Learning for T’21s The Tuck community leveraged its strengths to ensure a robust summer experience for every T’21. More Resources for Career Exploration Employment Statistics See the latest employment report for the outgoing class of Tuck graduates. Meet Our Career Advisers Get to know Tuck's world-class career advisers and industry experts. Industry Treks Tuck's industry specialists and students journey to the world's most dynamic cities to tour firms, engage with industry leaders, and meet Tuck alumni. Top Hiring Companies See the organizations who hired the most graduates and interns from the current and outgoing classes. Recruit a Tuck Student Learn how to connect with Tuck MBAs and Career Services, and how we can work with you to fulfill your organization’s hiring needs. Centers at Tuck Tuck’s centers serve as co-curricular hubs of research, teaching, and practical application. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy