Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations BEO Concentration Honors in BEO Business, Entrepreneurship and Organizations Honors in BEO The pursuit of honors is an opportunity for intensive engagement. The process of designing a research project, practicing disciplinary ways of thinking, and presenting one's research to others develops expertise and heightened communication skills as well as deepened relationships with a faculty mentor. An honors project prepares students for entry into graduate study and other professions beyond Brown, while also clarifying and culminating the undergraduate experience. Eligible students in BEO are encouraged to pursue honors in their declared BEO track. Exceptional honors theses may be nominated for the Dean of the College’s Distinguished Senior Thesis award. The pursuit of honors in BEO requires two semesters of work during the senior year. This work is in addition to the concentration requirements. Students pursuing honors in BUSE and ORGS must enroll in a fall-semester honors tutorial course. An honors thesis must represent substantial effort in research and exposition. The thesis can be descriptive, historical, mathematical, or statistical. It can be oriented toward fact, theory, policy or a combination of these areas. It is the student’s responsibility to establish the honor’s thesis topic and identify their thesis advisor. Honors requirements vary according to each track with regard to GPA and number of courses taken S/NC and final review process. Honors candidates must be in good academic standing at the time of application, have no violations of the Academic Code of Conduct during honors candidacy, must maintain good academic performance during their senior year, complete the written thesis and, if required by the track, present and defend the thesis to a faculty committee. The distinction of honors is conferred on the recommendation of the student’s faculty advisor(s), readers and/or committee as required by the track. Students interested in becoming a candidate for honors in BEO should follow the track-specific requirements and application timeline specified below. The BEO honors application should include: A written proposal for a thesis (not to exceed four pages) that identifies the depth, methods, and scope of research. The honors thesis proposal should include concrete deadlines for specific deliverables, i.e., outlines, drafts for thesis review by the thesis advisor(s) and/or reader. The BEO Director and the student’s BEO Faculty Track Advisor must approve the written proposal. Theses must be reasonably accomplished in a yearlong course of study culminating in a research paper and, as required by some tracks, a presentation, and thesis defense. Agreements from a faculty member who will serve as the thesis advisor and a second reader in the form of a letter or email attached to the thesis proposal. Note: the honor’s thesis advisor will normally be from the department corresponding to the student’s track, but can with the permission of the BEO Director, be someone from another BEO-related department. Faculty must be satisfied that your proposal is sufficiently rigorous and must be able to meet regularly throughout the year to evaluate and provide timely reviews of the candidate’s progress. The faculty advisor(s), reader and/or committee are the arbiters in determining whether honors will be recommended. Honors Requirements | Business Economics (BUSE) 3.7 minimum grade point average in concentration courses Have support from one faculty member willing to serve as the advisor for the thesis project and one faculty member willing to serve as a second thesis reader who is knowledgeable in the subject matter and approved by the honor’s thesis advisor. BUSE students accepted as honors candidates must enroll in the seniors’ honors tutorial class in the fall (ECON 1960), followed by an independent study in the spring (ECON 1970). Honors Requirements | Organizational Studies (ORGS) 3.5 minimum grade point average across all letter-graded courses that the student chooses to count toward the concentration, as reflected in the student's current Course Plan. S/NC courses are not included in this grade point average. However, students who wish considered for honors may count no more than three S/NC courses toward concentration requirements overall, and no more than one S/NC course toward the ORG track-specific courses; Have support from one faculty member willing to serve as the advisor for the thesis project and one faculty member willing to serve as a second thesis reader who is knowledgeable in the subject matter and approved by the honor’s thesis advisor. ORGS students accepted as honors candidates must enroll in the Sociology Department senior honors tutorial class (SOC 1950) in the fall and spring semesters. If SOC 1950 is not offered, the student may enroll in Independent Studies (SOC 1980-1990) with the thesis supervisor in one or both semesters. For more detailed instructions, click here. Honors Requirements | Entrepreneurship & Technology Management (ETCM) 3.4 minimum grade point average in concentration courses Have support from one faculty member willing to serve as the advisor for the thesis project and one faculty member willing to serve as a second thesis reader who is knowledgeable in the subject matter and approved by the honor’s thesis advisor. ETCM students accepted as honors candidates must apply to the School of Engineering honors program by filling out the relevant form available in the Engineering Student Affairs Office prior to October 2nd of the student’s senior year ETCM honors candidates must defend the thesis in a 30-40 minutes oral presentation and examination before the honors thesis committee. BEO Honors Time Line April | Junior Year Submit written thesis proposal to BEO Director for approval. Honors applications due to BEO Office Mid-May | Junior Year Honors notifications Fall Semester| Senior Year Meet regularly with your honors faculty advisor BUSE or ORGS enroll in the required honors tutorial Spring Semester | Senior Year Continue independent work Meet regularly with your honors faculty advisor April |Senior Year Honors thesis presentation Faculty review and finalize recommendations for honors to the University Registrar May | Senior Year Honors conferred with successful completion of all University degree requirements Home People BEO Concentration Declaring a BEO Concentration BEO Foundation Business Economics Track Organizational Studies Track Entrepreneurship & Technology Management Track Honors Student Organizations The BEO Capstone BEO Concentration FAQs and Tips Business Pathways @ Brown Graduate Research Print this Page Share this Page Sayles Hall, Suite 015 Brown University Box 1922 79-81 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-6348 Fax 401-863-6415 Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Programs Program in Management and Entrepreneurship IE Brown Executive MBA Department of Sociology Department of Economics School of Engineering Get Involved BEO DUG Entrepreneurship Program BEO Newsletter | Subscribe Here Jonathan M. Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship