Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Student Initiatives Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Campus Life Fellowship 2020-2022 Akash Altman, Campus Life Fellow & Special Assistant to the Vice President for Campus Life Graduating in the Brown University Class of 2020 with an A.B. in Engineering, Akash is a strong leader and has extensive experience in community building, leadership development, vision building, relationship management, and social justice. In his time as a student here at Brown, Akash served as a Student Coordinator of the Leadership Development Initiative, Minority Peer Counselor, and Senior Vice President of the South Asian Students Association. With this deep involvement and investment in the University community, Akash has developed a breadth and depth of knowledge and experience advancing the needs of students through collaborative dialogue with an emphasis on empathy, equity, and sustainability. As Campus Life Fellow, Akash generated programs that support Brown undergraduate students in building virtual and remote community and on campus with a particular focus on leadership development and student engagement; advised the division leadership on current student experience and needs; and supported the division by completing delegated special projects. He provided student-centered perspectives and leadership to critical community and student-centered programs, including the Leadership Development Initiative, Campus Life Student Advisory Board, Disability Justice Student Initiative, JUST Lead (Justice-oriented, Understanding, Supportive, and Transformative Leadership), and others as assigned. Additionally, Akash will collaborate with staff in the cultural and identity centers and student-centered programs and initiatives. He helped the team maintain a strong connection and interactive relevance to student culture and needs during a period of time when connections with students on campus, in Providence, and beyond have never been more important. Akash believes in the importance of the inclusion of student voice in our work and cares deeply about the holistic student experience. 2019-2020 Soyoon Kim, Program Coordinator at the Global Brown Center for International Students Soyoon Kim will be joining the Global Brown Center for International Students as the program coordinator through the Campus Life Fellow Program, after graduating from Brown in May with a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology and Education Studies. In this new role, Soyoon will work to design a First-Year and Sophomore Experience Series for international students focused on community-building, navigating campus resources, and identity development. In addition, she will also collaborate with campus stakeholders within the Division of Campus Life and Global Brown to develop asset-based, intersectional programs in order to cultivate a campus environment that is inclusive of international student communities. These programs will promote cross-center collaboration and will support the work of the Institute for Transformative Practice (ITP). During her time at Brown, Soyoon has been engaged with the Center in various capacities throughout the past two years, both as a two-time International Mentoring Program (IMP) Mentor and as an active leader of internationally-focused student organizations. She's also worked with the Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender and the Brown Center for Students of Color as co-coordinator for Brown Asian Sisters Empowered (BASE) and as former managing-editor of VISIONS Magazine. Her senior thesis focuses on lessons learned from undergraduate experience on navigating institutionalization of Diversity and Inclusion within Higher Education. In recognition for her contributions to the campus community, Soyoon received the Alfred H. Joslin Award in 2019. 2018-2019 Renata Mauriz, Student Success Program Coordinator at the First-Generation College and Low-Income Student (FLi) Center Renata Mauriz `17.5 will be joining the First-Generation College and Low-Income Student (FLi) Center from 2018-2019 as the student success program coordinator through the Campus Life Fellow Program. In this new role, Renata will aid in developing comprehensive programs that provide navigational, social, and academic support to undocumented, first-generation college, and low-income students at Brown University. Specifically, Renata will collaborate with campus stakeholders to create an equity asset-based transition program for FLi students and coordinate educational programming that enhances the support offered through the Center’s Undocumented Student Initiative. During her time at Brown, Renata advocated alongside other students and administrators to change institutional policies and practices that previously created barriers for undocumented students. Renata cultivated her collaborative and transformative approach to institutional change during the time she served as a community organizer at the Wind of the Spirit Immigrant Resource Center and policy intern for the National Immigration Law Center. These professional opportunities, coupled with her personal experiences, led to her engagement with the Brown Center for Students of Color, as well as the FLi Center. In recognition for her contributions to the campus community, Renata received the Alfred H. Joslin Award in 2017. 2017-2018 Molly Sandstrom, Peer Education Specialist at BWell Health Promotion Molly worked to design and build HEALTHy Athletes, a curriculum-based, peer education program designed specifically for student-athletes. With 40 varsity athlete peer educators, the program represents a dozen teams across men’s and women’s programs at Brown. The mission of the program is to support healthier athletes, teams, and campus through improved team dynamics, leadership development, and peer advocacy. The program recognizes and builds upon pre-existing support systems by providing new information and skills, as well as professional guidance. Molly worked with peer educators to prepare them to plan, schedule, and lead workshops with their teams. With the development of a new curriculum (informed by student-athletes and tailored specifically to their needs), a strong rate of return on recruitment efforts and high program satisfaction reflected in participant feedback, the program is well positioned to continue serving the Brown community in years to come Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top