Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Visual Studies Search form SearchSearch Visual Studies Program PEOPLE NEWS EVENTS Resources Contact SUPPORT Final Senior Exhibition Fisher Fine Arts Library, Open from Monday May 2-Friday 13. Closing Monday May 16th. Fall 2022 Courses Mattia Mantovani April 12, 5:15pm Visual Studies Program University of Pennsylvania Marcel Broodthaers, La Tour visuelle [The Visual Tower] (1966) Herbert Bayer, Glass Eyes, 1928, photograph A Study in Human Motion Completed by Thomas Eakins at the University of Pennsylvania. Rod and Cone Photoreceptors ‹ › Welcome to Visual Studies at the University of Pennsylvania. We live in an increasingly visual culture. New technologies and philosophies of vision influence how we see ourselves and our world, and how we think about seeing itself. The Visual Studies Major was created in 2003 to allow students to directly engage these developments through a multi-disciplinary course of study, connecting the theory, practice, and culture of seeing. What do art and design look like when they are informed by understanding of the neurobiology of vision? How can theories and philosophies of vision enrich design, architecture, and communications? What if research into visual perception were shaped by the histories and cultures of seeing? These are just a few of the challenges taken up by the University of Pennslvania's Visual Studies majors as they remake design, vision science, philosophy, and art history for the 21st century. Fundamentally interdisciplinary, the Visual Studies Program partners with the Departments of Philosophy, Psychology, History of Art, Fine Arts, and Architecture. Featured Events Wiki Associate Director: Dr. Ian Verstegen University of Pennsylvania 3405 Woodland Walk 105 Jaffe History of Art Building Philadelphia, PA 19104-6125 Phone: 215.746.2066 verstege@sas.upenn.edu Director: Professor Gary Hatfield 422 Claudia Cohen Hall Office hours: T 1-2pm, R 12-1pm, and by appointment. hatfield@sas.upenn.edu Follow us facebook youtube flickr Sign up for our mailing list › Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania