Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Visit Harvard Whether you have a few hours or a few days, many discoveries await. Visit Harvard Maps and Directions Tours Visit Harvard Maps and Directions Tours More In-person and virtual tours are offered daily. Weekly tour registration is available every Friday. At this time, only official Harvard tours are permitted in Harvard Yard. For information about Harvard College Admissions tours for prospective students, visit their website. Please note: The Visitor Center will be closed Monday, May 30 and Tuesday, May 31. A self-guided historical tour is now offered on the Visit Harvard mobile app, available to download on iOS and Android devices. THE HARVARD UNIVERSITY CENTER IS OPEN MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 9 A.M. TO 5 P.M. Harvard University Visitor Center Harvard University established the Visitor Center in 1962 as the front door to the University, where students greet visitors from all over the world, answer questions about campus, and provide official tours of Harvard. Questions? Email the Visitor Center Tours Mysterious facts, hidden gems, iconic figures, famous traditions, world-changing ideas, and everyday quirks—explore these and more on the official Harvard tours. Our tours are led by students and are offered both in-person, on campus and virtually. In addition, self-guided tours are offered on the Visit Harvard mobile app, available to download on iOS and Android devices. See all of our tours In-person Historical Tour of Harvard The free, student-led public walking tour through Harvard Yard provides a history of the University, general information, and a unique view on the students’ individual experience. Register for the tour Private tours Private tours of Harvard are available on campus and virtually. Please make your request at least two weeks in advance. In-person private tours are for groups of 15-60 people. Request a tour Visit Harvard mobile app This free mobile app features a self-guided walking tour through Harvard Yard that highlights the history behind iconic buildings, traditions, alumni and more. Learn more about our app Virtual Historical Tour of Harvard This free virtual tour of Harvard showcases rarely seen images and offers insight into current students’ experiences. Register for the tour Virtual Harvard Women’s History Tour This free, virtual tour aims to highlight the many women who have contributed to Harvard’s legacy. Register for the tour Explore on your own Turn virtually any corner at Harvard and you’ll find something that leaves you feeling inspired. Explore the places, ideas, artifacts, and moments that make us who we are. Find more at our museums Harvard Libraries virtual exhibits Explore the exhibits Virtual tour of the Harvard Museum of Natural History Explore the museum Harvard and the legacy of slavery walking tour Explore the tour Places we love Harvard community members share their favorite places on campus. William “Ned” Friedman, Director of the Arboretum Arnold Arboretum “There is a magnificent horticultural “sport” (genetic mutant) of the standard European beech tree (Fagus sylvatica) that came to the Arboretum in 1888 from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew (and was probably collected in the wild in France). Instead of growing straight up to the sky, the shoots twist and turn into gyres, and the net effect is a tree that is essentially a small hemisphere.” Rhea Bennett, Class of ’20 Radcliffe’s sunken garden “One of my favorite places on campus when the weather is warm is the sunken garden in Radcliffe Yard. It is a beautiful, little green spot on campus where the gurgle of the fountain creates a quiet, calm atmosphere. Doing work there on a sunny day makes me feel like I’m in an oasis in the middle of the city.” Jason Luke, Associate Director of custodial and support services Tercentenary Theatre “I keep coming back to Tercentenary Theatre. I especially like being there at night, when it’s more peaceful, sitting on the steps of Memorial Church or Sever Hall. I’ve spent a lot of time there: Commencement, presidential inaugurations, Harvard’s 375th, special convocations, Harvard College student events, and on many other occasions over the past 25 years. That space just brings back so many great memories!” Find an event Harvard offers many virtual and on-campus events open to visitors and neighbors. Browse our upcoming events June 02, 2022 10:00am – 5:00pm EST In-person Earthly Delights: 6,000 Years of Asian Ceramics June 02, 2022 10:00am – 5:00pm EST In-person Earthly Delights: 6,000 Years of Asian Ceramics June 04, 2022 11:00am – 12:00pm EST In-person Take Your Place/Toma Tu Lugar June 04, 2022 11:00am – 12:00pm EST In-person Take Your Place/Toma Tu Lugar Maps and Directions There are a number of ways to get to Harvard. Find your best option. Explore our campus Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00