Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu About Us Where Science and Engineering converge At the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS), we work within and beyond the disciplines of engineering and foundational science to address the most pressing issues of our time. SEAS has no departments; departments imply boundaries, even walls. Our approach to teaching and research is, by design, highly interdisciplinary. We collaborate across academic areas at SEAS and the larger university, and with colleagues in academia, industry, government and public service organizations beyond Harvard. This commitment to collaboration, and our community’s manageable scale, enable our undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researchers to advance knowledge, make groundbreaking discoveries, and develop technologies, products, and ideas that have the potential to improve lives the world over. We are an inclusive community of dedicated problem-solvers who hold ourselves – and one another – to the highest academic and professional standards. We believe that we can achieve the best teaching, learning, and research outcomes when we invite in individuals from diverse perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences. Engineering and applied sciences at Harvard have a long and distinguished history, beginning with the Lawrence Scientific School, established in 1847. Today, we continue to educate individuals who have the ability to think critically, collaborate productively, and shape ethical solutions to humanity’s most compelling and complex problems. As a top-tier engineering school embedded in one of the world’s leading the liberal arts institutions, SEAS offers a learning environment that inspires new ideas, collaborators, inventions, and innovations. The SEAS campus at Harvard University is located on the tribal homelands of the Massachusett people. We acknowledge the continuing presence of the Massachusett, and the neighboring Wampanoag and Nipmuc peoples. Main navigation In About Us Directory School Overview Leadership Letter from the Dean Standing Committees Mission & Vision Accreditation Engineering Sciences, SB Electrical Engineering, SB Mechanical Engineering, SB Timeline Visit Us Tours Virtual Tour: Allston Virtual Tour: Cambridge Allston Science & Engineering Complex SEC Library 114 Western Avenue Transportation Parking in Allston Shuttle & Van Service MBTA Bus Transportation Pedestrian Transportation Bicycle Transportation Dining in Allston Sustainability Allston Updates & FAQs Cambridge Parking Accessible Parking/Building Entrances Accessibility at SEAS Restrooms Classroom/Meeting Room Accessibility Lactation Rooms Employment & Jobs Information For Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy