Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Resources Set Navigation title in component Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Resources At Parking Services, our job is to manage the parking needs of the university, while providing excellent customer service. Our policies and procedures are designed to help alleviate parking and traffic issues, while keeping motorists and pedestrians safe. We strive to design policies to make parking safe and accessible for everyone who visits our campus. Sign-up Form / Communications From athletic events to construction and service improvements, there are many times when access to particular parking garages and lots will need to be temporarily modified, or campus roadways are impacted. If you are a permit holder, you will be notified of these short-term changes through email. If you are not a permit holder, but visit campus frequently, you may sign-up to receive email communications about events that impact parking on campus. You can also check out our events calendar to see the latest information regarding garage access during events. Sign Up For Parking Updates view your account how-to videos User Services Parking Services currently offers the following services to the university community: The Public Safety Motorist Assistance Program for unlocks, jump-starts, and inflating flat tires. For assistance, contact 513-556-1111. When a citation is written for 'no permit displayed,' a one-time courtesy void is available to all university faculty, staff, students, and visitors. Contact the Parking Office at parking/uc.edu or 513-556-2283 for further information.  Lost your car? It's easy to do with over 11,000 parking spaces on the Uptown campuses. Come to the Parking Office at 4 Edwards Center and we will be happy to help you locate your car.  Snow removal from lots, garages, and drives (101 acres) is the responsibility of Parking Services. Every effort is made to clear and de-ice all surfaces. Sidewalks, plazas, and other pedestrian-only areas are cleared by Facilities Management. Forms Voucher Pass Order Form Visitor Parking will be charged to the designated department's account as vouchers are used. You may wish to use our convenient form to track vouchers through the accounting process. Your visitors may appreciate a copy of the instructions on how to use the vouchers. Print several pages, and cut them into quarters. An expedite service fee of $15 will be assessed to all voucher orders requested with a “Date Needed” of less than 5 business days from the order date. An expedite service fee of $25 will be assessed to all voucher orders requested with a “Date Needed” of less than 4 business days from the order date. Parking Voucher Pass Order Form Special Event Parking Request Form The Special Parking Request Form is used to request parking for an event on campus for an individual or group of people who need to park, but are not affiliated with the university and do not have valid parking permits. It is also used for special parking circumstances (e.g., loading/unloading, dock access, etc.). Special Parking Request Form Instructions When submitting a special parking request form, please complete the form in its entirety as applicable to your event. If there is information you would like to include but there is no defined area, please add information to the comment section and submit. If paying by credit card, please do not enter your credit card information on this form as it is only needed when picking up your request. Special Parking Request Form Special Parking - Non-Event The Special Parking Request Form is designed for requests for campus parking for members of the university community and those not affiliated with the university with special parking circumstances. Special Parking permits can include dock permits, permits for loading and unloading, etc. These permits must be requested in advance and approved by Parking Services. Please allow for up to 5 business days for processing. special parking - Non-event 1819 Coupons Form The 1819 Coupons Request form allows occupants of the 1819 Innovation Hub to give their visitors a code to use at the pay station. The occupant will be charged or billed for the visitor’s parking expense. You can submit a request for them below. Please read the instructions carefully. 1819 Coupon Request Form Quick Links to Additional Forms Accommodations - Human Resources Accommodations - Accessibility Services Foundation Cancellation Golf Cart Registration Request to Receive Parking Communications Cancel Auto-Renew Permit Parking 1819 Visitor Coupons 1819 Parking For Employees Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top