Skip to main content Skip to main content my.SMU News & Events Library Master Calendar Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Social SMU Facebook SMU Google Plus SMU Twitter SMU LinkedIn SMU Tumblr SMU YouTube SMU Instagram Skip to main content Law About About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts Living & Studying in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Academics Academics Academic Advising Academic Calendar Registrar's Office Academic Success Program (ASP) Bar Exam Resources Course Schedules and Registration Information Degree Programs Experiential Learning Externship Programs Forms Law Journals Planning Your Academic Program Study Abroad in Oxford Admissions Admissions Costs and Financial Aid FAQs J.D. Programs Graduate Programs How to Apply Meet Our Students Visiting SMU Virtual Tour of SMU Contact Admissions Alumni & Giving Alumni & Giving 2022 Alumni Happy Hours 2022 Reunion Weekend Alumni Chapters Career Services Class Notes Community Fellows Contact Alumni Relations Distinguished Alumni Awards Emerging Leader Board Executive Board Get Involved Law Firm Challenge Publications Update Alumni Information Career Services Career Services Students Employers Alumni Employment Statistics Career Services Team Contact Office of Career Services Reciprocity Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives Jennifer M. Collins Women's Leadership Initiative Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center For Victims of Crimes Against Women Robert B. Rowling Center for Business Law & Leadership Tsai Center for Law, Science and Innovation W. W. Caruth, Jr. Institute for Children's Rights Deason Criminal Justice Reform Center Clinics Clinics W.W. Caruth, Jr. Child Advocacy Clinic Civil/Consumer Clinic COVID-19 Legal Helpline Criminal Clinic Family Immigration Detention Clinic Federal Tax Clinic First Amendment Clinic Judge Elmo B. Hunter Legal Center for Victims of Crimes Against Women Innocence Clinic Patent Law Clinic Small Business and Trademark Clinic VanSickle Family Law Clinic Faculty Faculty Conferences, Symposia & Lecture Series Faculty Expertise Faculty in the News Faculty Profiles Research Public Service Public Service Completing Your Public Service Graduation Requirement Pre-Approved Placements Forms FAQs Planning a Public Service Career Internships & Fellowships Public Advocate Day Contact Public Service Program Staff Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) - Overview for law students only Students Students Office of Student Affairs Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Frequently Used Resources Graduation Information Inns of Court Program Mustang Exchange Scholarships and Writing Competitions Student Code of Professional Responsibility Student Organizations ☰ Law About Dean's Welcome Dean's Welcome We are absolutely delighted to introduce you to our wonderful school and the many opportunities we provide to help you build a satisfying career in the law. Connections from the start. We are excited about our Inns of Court program sponsored by Haynes and Boone. This program enhances the SMU first-year experience. Each student is part of an Inn—a small group of approximately 30 students, plus faculty, upper level students, and attorney mentors—that will be a key part of the entire first year experience. Inns will offer social and networking events along with career advising and meaningful service projects. You will also be forming connections with a truly extraordinary faculty – a remarkable group of teacher-scholars who offer a rich and innovative curriculum and are committed to your academic and professional success. Connections to the legal community. Our students have unique access to SMU’s unparalleled connections to our thriving legal and business community. Our innovative “flash mentorship” program called the Mustang Exchange is one of the first of its kind in the nation—pairing students with different mentors throughout the year in one-on-one conversations including career advisory meetings, mock interviews, and job shadowing experiences. Throughout your time in law school, you will work closely with our dedicated Career Services team, which provides individualized counseling and coaching to students to help you achieve your professional goals. After graduation, our students can take advantage of our strong alumni network by joining the Mustang Bar Law Alumni Association, with its networking opportunities like happy hours, tailgates, CLE events, and prominent lectures. Connections to the real world. Our extensive experiential learning opportunities are turning the Dallas-Fort Worth area into a living laboratory for our students. Our flourishing clinical program offers 11 clinics to serve the public—making a real difference to our students and their clients. The law school also has three academic centers, providing an interdisciplinary platform for educational programming, to facilitate academic research, and to provide educational opportunities that engage students and the academic and business/legal communities. Programs like our thriving Corporate Counsel Externship Program (placing students in house with companies like AT&T and Hewlett Packard), our robust Federal Judicial Externship Program (placing students in the courthouse with judges), and our Government and Public Externship Program (placing students in non-profit and government legal departments) give hands-on lessons about law in the real world. Dallas! Your legal education will take place in Dallas—a booming city full of friendly people and amazing professional opportunities. Dallas is growing in leaps and bounds, with a thriving job market, high quality of life and relatively low cost of living. It’s a great place to live, go to school and build a career. I hope you will visit us and experience our school in a way that words and pictures can only suggest. We look forward to getting to know you! Thomas Wm. Mayo Dean ad interim and Professor of Law About Dean's Welcome Diversity and Inclusion Fast Facts: Profiles and Statistics Living in Dallas Why SMU Dedman Law? Ten Reasons to Attend Download brochure Download fact sheet Library Business Office Get Help Now News Media Emergency / Safety Admissions Office / FAQs Department Directory Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Dedman School of Law 3315 Daniel Avenue, Dallas, TX 75205 facebook google twitter linkedin tumblr youtube instagram