Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of English Undergraduate Graduate People Internships News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduates Concentrations African American LiteratureCreative WritingTESOLApplied LinguisticsLiteratureProfessional Writing Advising Online Degree Programs Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA First-Year Writing Program Scholarships Undergraduate Internship Opportunities 2022-2024 Two Year Course Template 2022-2024 Undergraduate Course Rotation Undergraduate Catalog English Course Descriptions Take Action Apply Now Alumni and Friends Course Offerings Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of English Undergraduates Undergraduate Advising Our Goal is Your Academic Success The English Department offers academic advising to declared English majors as well as to any students considering pursuing English as a major or minor. We know that you may have work, family and other commitments outside of the classroom. So helping you to choose classes is only one component of our advising. We strive to understand your individual needs, interests and goals as the first step to creating your ideal academic program. From our first meeting until graduation, you will receive personal attention, knowledgeable guidance, and dedicated academic support. We look forward to advising you throughout your journey as a scholar in the Department of English. Quick Links: Course Permits Make an Appointment for Advising Advising Schedule Advising Information and Suggestions Department of English Resources University Resources Application for Retroactive Credit, ENGL 1010 Contact your Advisor: Bridget Wells bwells6@memphis.edu Patterson Hall 471 Course Permits Any student needing a permit for an English course should email a request to the English advisor at bwells6@memphis.edu. The request must include the student's U-Number as well as the Course Record Number (CRN) of the section for which the student would like to register. Please note the Department of English does not issue permits for closed sections. Make an Appointment for Advising All English majors should schedule an appointment with the English advisor every Fall and every Spring semester for assistance with course planning and to be cleared for registration. Students should also see their advisor for information on degree requirements and career options. To schedule an appointment, click here. You will be able to view the English Advisor's availability. If you are unable to use the site, or if there are no meeting times that are convenient for you, please email bwells6@memphis.edu to request an appointment. In your email, include at least three days and times that you are available for an appointment. Advising Schedule: Non-registration Periods During non-registration periods, walk-ins are welcome, but appointments are always recommended to ensure the advisor will be available to see you. You can also email or call the advisor with questions. Please see the helpful links below which may also answer your questions. Registration Periods (Peak Advising) To be cleared to register for classes, students must consult with the advisor every semester prior to registration. Approximately six weeks before each registration period, the advisor will email all English majors reminding them to schedule an advising appointment. Appointments are in-person, or via phone or email. Walk-ins cannot be accommodated during peak advising time. Peak advising for Summer and Fall courses takes place in March; registration begins in April. Peak advising for Spring courses takes place in October; registration begins in November. Students are welcome to use the online appointment system to schedule an appointment whenever they would like to meet with an advisor. Advising Information and Suggestions Students are responsible for fulfilling all requirements for the English Bachelors degree program and for following the procedures and regulations as stated in the Undergraduate Catalog corresponding to the student's catalog year. The Undergraduate Catalog is valid for seven years. Prepare for Your Advising Appointment Using UMdegree Students should familiarize themselves with UMdegree. This degree audit tool tracks a student's progress by listing the requirements that are fulfilled and those that are still unsatisfied. Students may also find the Degree Requirement Sheet (see below) to be helpful in keeping track of courses required for graduation. Before meeting with your advisor, review UMdegree to make a list of classes you want to take in the upcoming semester. Do not show up to your advising appointment empty handed. Rather, you should have an idea of the classes you would like to register for and how they will work with your schedule. Keep in mind that some courses have prerequisites and must be taken in a particular sequence. Also be aware of course rotations (not all courses are offered every semester). The two-year template provides an easy guide to course rotation. Click here for the Fall 2022-Spring 2024 course template. How to Access UMdegree Log in to https://my.memphis.edu. Click the "Student Pages" tab, then select "My Degree" from the drop-down menu. On the next screen, you'll see the word/icon "UMdegree", click on that. When UMdegree opens, click on "Worksheets" on the left side to refresh the information. On your UMdegree Worksheet, confirm that information such as your major and concentration are correct. Also pay attention to the courses listed as "still needed". Note any inaccuracies you see so they may be discussed with the advisor. Department of English Resources: Two Year Course Rotation Template: 2022-2024 English Undergraduate Catalog The Degree Sheet for English majors is not intended as a substitute for knowing the requirements listed in the Undergraduate Catalog. Students are responsible for keeping in touch with the English advisor and maintaining their own course progress records. However, this degree sheet will help students plan their program of study. 2013 Degree Sheet 2014 Degree Sheet 2015 Degree Sheet 2016 Degree Sheet 2017 Degree Sheet 2018 Degree Sheet 2019 Degree Sheet 2021 Degree Sheet English Undergraduate Grade Appeal Process (.pdf) Department of English FAQ University Resources: Financial Aid The Testing Center Registrar's Schedule Graduation Career Services Honors Programs and Organizations: English Honors Program University Honors Program Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/6/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.