Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Substance Use Substance Use New kinds of access, from e-cigarettes to marijuana, are changing the landscape of substance use. As the economic, developmental, and social dimensions of drug and alcohol use multiply, scientific knowledge of addiction continues to expand. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_51GR5rwImE?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Substance Use Angela Aidala Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Andrea Howard Associate Professor Epidemiology (in ICAP) at the Columbia University Medical Center Carol Caton Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Psychiatry) at the Columbia University Medical Center Christine Mauro Assistant Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Denise Kandel Professor Sociomedical Sciences (in Psychiatry) Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences Deborah Hasin Professor Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) at the Columbia University Medical Center Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Francine Cournos Professor of Clinical Epidemiology Guohua Li Professor Epidemiology Jeffrey Fagan Professor Epidemiology Katherine Keyes Professor Epidemiology Karolynn Siegel Professor Sociomedical Sciences Lisa Rosen-Metsch Professor Sociomedical Sciences Lynn Tepper Clinical Professor Behavioral Science (In Sociomedical Sciences and Dentistry) Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Mary Northridge Professor Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Dental Medicine) Michael Wessells Professor of Clinical Population and Family Health Peter Messeri Professor Emeritus/Special Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Qixuan Chen Associate Professor Biostatistics Ronald Bayer Professor Sociomedical Sciences Renee Goodwin Adjunct Associate Professor Epidemiology Robert Fullilove Professor Sociomedical Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Ruth Finkelstein Silvia Martins Professor Epidemiology Wendy Chavkin Special Lecturer/ Professor Emerita Population and Family Health and Clinical Obstetrics and Gynecology Xinhua Liu Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Esteban Calvo Adjunct Assistant Professor Epidemiology (in CAC) George Musa Assistant Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Joanne Csete Associate Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Helen-Maria Lekas Associate Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences Ana Navas-Acien Professor Environmental Health Sciences Daniel Giovenco Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Pia Mauro Assistant Professor Epidemiology Christopher Morrison Assistant Professor Epidemiology Seth Prins Assistant Professor Epidemiology and Sociomedical Sciences Tiffany Sanchez Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences Dan Liao Lecturer Biostatistics Kara Rudolph Assistant Professor Epidemiology Jeremy Kane Assistant Professor Epidemiology News & Features Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All Adolescents Cannabis vaping is increasing as the most popular method of cannabis delivery among all adolescents in the U.S., as is the frequency of cannabis vaping, according to research at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. The study found that the frequency of vaping cannabis among a Only One in Four People Needing Treatment for Opioid Use Disorder Received Medication Despite strong evidence that medication is the most effective treatment for opioid use disorder (OUD), adolescents and most adults with a need for OUD treatment reported a lack of medication for OUD in the past year, according to a study by researchers at Columbia University Mailman School o Use of Non-Benzo Sleeping Pills and Anti-Epilepsy Drugs Linked to Overdose Deaths With an alarming rise in the number of prescriptions filled for non-benzodiazepine sleeping pills/z-drugs and anti-epilepsy gabapentinoids over the last two decades, researchers at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health examined overdose deaths involving those medications a See All Just Published Fairchild, A.L., Lee, J.S., Bayer, R., & Curran, J. (2018). E-Cigarettes and the Harm-Reduction Continuum. New England Journal of Medicine. View abstract. Hernandez, D., Castellon, P.C., Fernandez, Y., Torres-Caradona, F.A., Parish, C., Gorshein, D., Vargas Vidot, J., Miranda de Leon, S., Rodriguez, A., Santana Bagur, J., Feaster, D.J., Schackman, B.R., Metsch, L.R. (2017). When "the Cure" is the Risk: Understanding How Substance Use Affects HIV and HCV in a Layered Risk Environment in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Health Educ Behav. View abstract. Giovenco, D.P. (2017). Smoke Shop Misclassification May Cloud Studies on Vape Shop Density. Nicotine & Tobacco Research. View abstract. Goodwin, R.D., Wall, M.M., Garey, L. … & Hasin, D.S. (2017). Depression Among Current, Former, and Never Smokers from 2005 to 2013: The Hidden Role of Disparities in Depression in the Ongoing Tobacco Epidemic. Drug and Alcohol Dependence. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs The Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health We rely on historical methods and ethical analysis to investigate critical public health issues. The Global Mental Health Program We are on a mission to promote mental health and reduce the burden of mental illness around the globe. Substance Abuse Epidemiology Program Epidemiologic research is important to develop the knowledge needed to prevent and intervene in the this problem. Policy and Health Initiatives on Opioids and Other Substances (PHIOS) Our scientists focus on modifiable social policies and structural factors to reduce the US substance use epidemic. MyGoals for Healthy Aging Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers