Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Test Prep » GRE/GMAT Set Navigation title in component LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep GRE/GMAT Exam Prep Live Online Personal Coaching Course If you’re planning to apply to graduate school, you’ll likely have to take the GRE or GMAT and we are here to help! This program gives you a unique opportunity to work directly with one of the country’s top test prep specialists - Barron’s test prep author Jay B. Cutts, MA, (Barron’s LSAT and MCAT prep books). Mr. Cutts has over 30 years test prep experience and has been a pioneer in the development of powerful intuitive strategies for mastering verbal, math, and timing strategies for the GRE. About the Course Register Here Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. Further action is required to make this image accessible One of the below criteria must be satisfied: Add image alt tag OR Mark image as decorative The image will not display on the live site until the issue above is resolved. The course covers timing strategy and problem-solving strategies for the Quantitative and Verbal sections of the test. You will learn the underlying agendas for the Analytical Writing tasks and specific steps for creating an essay that will earn a passing score. You will learn specific strategies for overcoming test anxiety, poor standardized test taking, and math anxiety. You will learn how to maximize your use of time on the test, how to avoid the most common timing pitfalls, and how to gain significant extra points through timing strategy. For the Quantitative section, you will learn how to interpret the instructions for the quantitative comparison questions, to analyze data interpretation graphs, and to recognize the patterns of GRE/GMAT math questions. You will learn intuitive math problem-solving tools that are accessible even to people who are not strong in math. You will learn how to make decisions about using your time on the Quantitative section, including how to choose which questions to work on and how much time to spend on a question. For the Verbal section, you will learn how to skim Reading Comprehension passages for structure, along with tools for distinguishing between two very close answer choices. You will learn the fundamental agenda of the Sentence Completion questions and tools for proving which answer is correct. You will learn how to make decisions about using your time on the Verbal section, including how to choose which questions to work on and how much time to spend on a question. Start When You're Ready The program consists of up to thirty hours of personal coaching help for a period of twelve months from the start of the course. Up to one hour can be used for admissions issues other than the test. Mr. Cutts works with you directly by phone and video conferencing. He gives you specific assignments, reviews your progress, and teaches you advanced strategies. He creates a study plan for you and advises you on all of the aspects of admissions. Students typically work with him once or twice each week. Sessions can be as long or short as needed. What is Personal Coaching? Coaching is the most personalized and direct way to master the GRE. At least once a week you can work with Mr. Cutts by phone or video chat. You will get specific assignments. You will review your assignments with Mr. Cutts. You will go over actual test questions with Mr. Cutts to improve your skills. Mr. Cutts will evaluate your timing strategy and testing strategies and provide you with personalized instruction. Mr. Cutts will direct your study plan and make sure you are staying on track. You can ask Mr. Cutts any questions you have about applying successfully. You will learn how to maximize your use of time on the test, how to avoid the most common timing pitfalls, and how to gain significant extra points through timing strategy. The strategies taught in this program have been tested and refined over 30 years of test prep experience with over a thousand students worldwide. Order Course Materials GRE Super Power Pack, 2nd Ed. (ISBN-13: 978-1260026399) and Intuitive Math–100+ Power Strategies for ACT and SAT Math (ISBN-13: 978-1734630602). GMAT Official Guide 2021, Book + Online Question Bank (ISBN-13: 978- 1119687825) and Intuitive Math – 100+ Power Strategies for ACT and SAT Math (ISBN-13: 978-1734630602). About Your Instructor Jay Cutts Director, Cutts Graduate Reviews and Lead Author, Barron's LSAT and MCAT Prep Books Jay Cutts is the lead author of the Barron's LSAT and MCAT prep books and a 30-year test prep and admissions expert. He specializes in individualized instruction and advanced strategies for math, test anxiety, and problem-solving. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top