Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Current Students Commencement Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Commencement The Mailman School of Public Health Class Day ceremony will celebrate our graduates on Tuesday, May 17 from 4:00 to 6:30 p.m. (with an optional light dessert reception immediately following the ceremony). Helpful information on Class Day and University Commencement can be found below. gina_personal_headshot-1500.png Mailman School of Public Health Commencement Speaker We're excited to announce Gina McCarthy, who served as the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, will deliver the keynote address! commencement-1500x632-4.jpg 2022class-557a2183.jpg Arrival Information Awards Class Speaker Competition Delta Omega Honor Society FAQ How to Participate Regalia Share in the Celebration Columbia University Commencement ceremony of the 268th academic year The University Commencement ceremony will take place on Wednesday, May 18, 2022 at 10:30 a.m. Don’t forget to tag @columbia and #RoarLions2022 as you prepare to celebrate your achievements. PhD Convocation PhD graduate candidates are invited to partcipate in the PhD Convocation hosted by the Graduate School for Arts and Sciences. Click here for more details. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 The Mailman School is pleased to partner with colleagues around the University to welcome back the Classes of 2020 and 2021 for in-person celebrations of their achievements. Alumni are invited to participate in a make-up University Celebration on May 19. That same day, the Mailman School of Public Health is pleased to invite graduates to the 2022 Alumni Summit: ALUMNI CELEBRATION HONORING THE CLASSES OF 2020 AND 2021. To ensure you receive information on the above, ensure your information is up to date in the Columbia Alumni Association directory. Island Photography Students may participate in three photos while crossing the commencement dais. Island Photography will be providing the photo coverage for our commencement ceremony. Island photography provides a registration page where students and their families may submit details ahead of time to receive proofs. They can be contacted at custserv@islandphoto.com with any questions. Financial Aid Exit Interview Graduating students must complete a financial aid exit interview through Student Services. Close Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers