Jump to navigation Support Lamont Research Main menu Research Education News & Events People Marine Ops About Support Shop Research Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct News & Events News & Events Research News Lamont in the Media Public Lecture Series Events Monthly Newsletter Media Inquiries People Marine Ops Office of Marine Operations R/V Marcus G. Langseth Cruises Cruise Planning Marine Mammal Protection LDEO Ship History Cruise Schedule What We Learn People R/V Langseth Financial Management Guide U.S. Science Support Program About About LDEO Mission History Annual Reports Office of the Director The Vetlesen Prize Alumni Organization & Policies Open Positions Map & Contacts Support Support LDEO Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Shop Search form Search About LDEOAbout LDEO - Mission - History - Annual Reports - Office of the Director -- Weekly Reports --- Weekly Reports Archive -- External Awards --- 2021 --- 2020 --- 2019 --- 2018 --- 2017 --- 2016 --- 2015 --- 2014 --- 2013 -- Academic Affairs & Diversity -- Anti-Racism Commitment -- Climate & Life -- Internal Awards --- Director's Award --- Jardetzky Lecturer --- Lamont Heritage Award --- Excellence in Mentoring Award --- Storke-Doherty Lectureship -- Postdoctoral Fellowship -- Staff - The Vetlesen Prize - Alumni - Organization & Policies - Open Positions - Map & Contacts About LDEO Mission History Annual Reports Office of the Director Weekly Reports Weekly Reports Archive External Awards Academic Affairs & Diversity Anti-Racism Commitment Climate & Life Internal Awards Postdoctoral Fellowship Staff The Vetlesen Prize Alumni Organization & Policies Open Positions Map & Contacts Director's Weekly Reports Lamont Weekly Report, April 2, 2021 Hello Friends, This week’s science round-up has some great stories. Lamont Associate Research Professor Anne Bécel is quoted in an article about an emerging effort to harness the power of satellite-linked cargo ship GPS systems to detect the presence and pathways of tsunamis in the ocean. What an amazingly creative idea and perfect example of merging ocean science and technology in ways that can save lives. The ships have something called the Automatic Identificat Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, April 2, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, March 26, 2021 Hello Friends, It has been a quiet week. A week to ponder what the near future will hold. An easing of pandemic pressures? Enhanced stress with a new virus variant? Of course, relief that appointments for vaccines are becoming increasingly easy to schedule. In the Dean’s Council meeting yesterday, we were told that discussions are being had and guidance will soon be forthcoming on issues ranging from summer travel policies, visitor policies, return to work policies, small gathering policies, vaccine policies and more. How do Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, March 26, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, March 19, 2021 Hello Friends, Lamont Research Professor Joerg Schaefer is the Where’s Waldo of scientists this week. Here he is in Greenland discussing top-secret Operation Iceworm, nuclear missiles and ancient vegetation on Greenland. And here he is in New Zealand investigating the Zealandia Switch mechanism that could g Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, March 19, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, March 12, 2021 Hello Friends, A lot has been going on over the past two weeks, most obviously the arrival of warm spring weather and uplifted spirits. This is also the time of year when graduate student admissions are in full swing and the Observatory competes for the best and brightest in the nation. Last Friday, in my joint lab meeting with Jacky Austermann, we welcomed three prospective students, Emily, Yichen, and Mila. Jacky had the inspired idea of asking each person in our group to say one thing they liked about Lamont after introducing themselves and their research.&nb Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, March 12, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, March 5, 2021 Hello Friends, I am using Spring Break week to catch up on email and take a breath. Your friendly action-packed newsletter will be back next week. Until then, put on your own mask first before taking care of others. Have a peaceful weekend. Best, Mo =================== LAMONT IN THE MEDIA: FEATURED NEWS Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, March 5, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, February 26, 2021 Hello Friends, Spring is in the air—and not a moment too soon. I think the added challenge of cold, darkness, and snow is pushing many of us to a breaking point from our already weirdly normalized pandemic (dis)equilibrium. We are stressed, we are depressed, we are coping in ways we might not even appreciate, just out of the sheer necessity of getting through another day with parents, children, health challenges, work demands, and more. Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, February 26, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, February 19, 2021 Hello Friends, This week’s science stories were all about dams and dinosaurs, including Adjunct Senior Research Scientist Dennis Kent’s work unraveling the mysterious movements of our sauropodian friends across Pangea and across the Mesozoic. Perhaps you didn’t know that the non-descript small white building behind the Core Repository building is actually one of the leading centers of paleomagnetic research in the nation, with a history of transformative research reaching back decades. Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, February 19, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, February 13, 2021 Hello Friends, Here is your weekly newsletter—a penny short and a day late. Giving two 90-minute lectures in my class Cenozoic Paleoceanography was literally the straw that broke the camel’s back for me this week. But, better late than never! Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, February 13, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, February 5, 2021 Hello Friends, I was very happy this week to circulate the Lamont Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force Report which I received from the Task Force co-chairs Gisela Winckler, Kailani Acosta, and Benjamin Keisling. If you have even glanced at it, you can appreciate the depth of thought and work that went into creating this inspiring document. I look forward to next week’s Town Hall (on Friday) where we will officially launch the next phase of our DEI and anti-racism activities—where the baton will be passed to the Directorate, and indeed all of us, to ta Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, February 5, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, January 29, 2021 Hello Friends, Welcome to what promises to be a very cold weekend. Let’s break out our Bernie-gear and reflect on the fun we had with the many Bernie mitten memes circulated over the last week. My favorite was the one of Bernie sitting, alone, in front of his poster in the cavernous AGU Poster Hall. Too funny. Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, January 29, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, January 22, 2021 Hello Friends, We come to the end of another roller coaster of a week. Holding our breath on Inauguration Day morning. Being inspired by an incredible youth poet. Smiling at Bernie Sanders mittens. Hoping for a more civil union as 2021 unfolds. And for some of us, waiting patiently, marshalling our ideas, discussing with our DC advisory reps, and trying to read the tea leaves to see what opportunities a Biden stimulus package might present to Lamont and our emerging Climate School. Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, January 22, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, January 15, 2021 Hello Friends, Lots of news this week. The landscape of the pandemic is changing quickly, sometimes daily. Please note Interim Provost Ira Katznelson’s email to all regarding the virtual town halls that will occur next week about COVID-19 vaccines and distribution. You can register for one of the sessions below: Tuesday, January 19, from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. or Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, January 15, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, January 8, 2021 Hello Friends, It is so hard to know what to write in this moment. Many of us had two lovely weeks in our family bubbles, with a blissful decrease in Zoom meetings and email, and came back excited (I hope) to reconnect with our students, colleagues, and co-workers. But on Wednesday we were assaulted with yet another egregious example of the racism and hypocrisy that is so woven into the fabric of our society. It is painful to think about. It is painful to watch. Although I know that there is a segment of society that will be apolo Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, January 8, 2021 Lamont Weekly Report, December 18, 2020 Hello Friends, I hope all are enjoying the winter wonderland we now have, and possibly even the beautiful pink sunrise this morning. A huge thanks to the B&G crew for snow removal and for working through the night Wednesday to clear the campus. We have lots of interesting research news, as well as accomplishments, to celebrate this week, but it is important that I—we—step back for a moment and look at the big picture. We have been fortunate to be in, physically or virtually, our Lamont campus bubble for many months now. We have our Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, December 18, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, December 11, 2020 Hello Friends, Welcome to another Friday, COVID-19 Edition. We are all deep into the American Geophysical Union more-than-two-weeks-long meeting now. Globally time-zone friendly, it runs from early in the morning to late at night and if you are feeling a bit overwhelmed by it all, you are not alone. I have that straight from the Lamont grapevine, parents especially. However, please hold the date December 16th, Wednesday evening at 7 pm, for yet another can’t-miss-event, the annual Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, December 11, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, December 4, 2020 Hello Friends, I am prefacing this week’s newsletter with an acknowledgment of the unfathomable suffering happening in our nation this week, as record-setting numbers of citizens are succumbing to COVID. Indeed, it is hard not to become numb to the scale of the daily deaths. Please reach out if you need help, or even an ear…to CU resources, to Lamont colleagues, or the Directorate directly. Our community has escaped relatively unscathed, an outcome I attribute directly to science—to the strong regulations and advice based on scientific data, and to the Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, December 4, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, November 20, 2020 Hello Friends, I’m sorry I have to start with the gloomy stuff—the pandemic is worsening in the region and we must continue to be vigilant, in the labs and especially in the café and other common spaces. We’ve all seen how things can go south quickly. The NYC schools have closed down again making life even harder for those with children. Please go here to find many university resources for parents, including daycare. Hopefully we can bend the curve down quickly.& Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, November 20, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, November 13, 2020 Hello Friends, Happy Friday the 13th. It’s a gloomy day and the news about Covid-19 around the nation is gloomier still. Please all be attuned to the rapidly evolving guidance on inter-state travel and meet-ups as Thanksgiving approaches. Positivity rates are going up all around us and Columbia has transitioned from green to yellow alert levels. Early next week the University will be sponsoring two forums for faculty, researchers, and staff addressing the latest information about public health and university planning. You can regi Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, November 13, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, November 6, 2020 Hello Friends, I hope everyone is enjoying this lovely late warm weather. I’ve made it onto campus a few times this week, with the highlight being the morning a fox walked right by my office, behind Monell. I also enjoyed multiple walks with colleagues around campus this week. It seems like more people are coming to campus more often—if this is you, please feel free to request placement on the Group A List if you are not already there. But given the observations across the nation, this is no time to relax our guard with COVID. Yes Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, November 6, 2020 Lamont Weekly Report, October 30, 2020 Hello Friends, And welcome to the end of another busy, rainy week as the dregs of Hurricane Zeta pass through the region. Reports of snow from the north, but here on the Palisades Sill it is just rain. At the start of the week I was happy to join Alex Halliday and SEAS Professor George Deodatis for a live, and lively, panel discussion: “Under Water: Coastal Fragility and Our Rising Seas”. Read more about Lamont Weekly Report, October 30, 2020 Pages « first ‹ previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Research Core Repository Biology & Paleo Environment Geochemistry Marine Geology & Geophysics Ocean & Climate Physics Office of Marine Operations Seismology, Geology, & Tectonophysics Publications Database Publications Procedures Media Inquiries Education Hudson River Field Station Public Events K-12 Students Educators Undergraduate & Graduate Students Academic Calendar LDEO Alumni Diversity at Lamont Lamont Code of Conduct SUPPORT Ways to Give Development Staff Directory Tweets by @LamontEarth The Earth Institute Campus Services Campus Life Video Archive Login Annual Report Strategic Plan Copyright © 2020 by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, Lamont -Doherty Earth Observatory. All rights reserved. Support Lamont Research