Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES JACKSON SCHOOL INTERNATIONAL STUDIES JSIS CORE AND GATEWAY COURSES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 JSIS 100 The Indigenous Pacific Northwest (5) I&S, DIV Dian Million, Charlotte Cote Introduction to the cultures and governing structures of indigenous peoples of American Indian and First Nations tribal communities in the North, coastal British Columbia, and Pacific Northwest region as self-determining political actors in a contemporary multicultural and global region. Offered: jointly with AIS 103; W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 100 JSIS 187 Study Abroad: Global (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 187 JSIS 188 Study Abroad: Canadian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 188 JSIS 189 Study Abroad: African Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 189 JSIS 190 Study Abroad: Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 190 JSIS 191 Study Abroad: East Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 191 JSIS 192 Study Abroad: South Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 192 JSIS 193 Study Abroad: Southeast Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 193 JSIS 194 Study Abroad: European Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 194 JSIS 196 Study Abroad: Latin American and Caribbean Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 196 JSIS 197 Study Abroad: Middle Eastern Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 197 JSIS 200 States and Capitalism: The Origins of the Modern Global System (5) I&S Kasaba, Migdal, Yang Origins of the modern world system in the sixteenth century and its history until World War I. Interacting forces of politics and economics around the globe, with particular attention to key periods of expansion and crisis. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 200 JSIS 201 The Making of the 21st Century (5) I&S Bachman, Callahan, Migdal, Radnitz Provides a historical understanding of the twentieth century and major global issues today. Focuses on interdisciplinary social science theories, methods, and information relating to global processes and on developing analytical and writing skills to engage complex questions of causation and effects of global events and forces. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 201 JSIS 202 Cultural Interactions in an Interdependent World (5) I&S Introduces a critical approach to governance, violence, and development. Students will learn key concepts of cultural theory to understand how the world is socially constructed. Learning how to use interpretive methods, students will acquire new understandings of the varied approaches through which social scientists confront global challenges. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 202 JSIS 203 Rise of Asia (5) I&S Anchordoguy, Bachman, Giebel, Sorensen Key themes in the study of Asia, with focus on the present. Topics include: the notion of "Asia;" cultural and religious similarities and differences; comparison of colonial experiences under Western and Asian powers; World War II and liberation; postwar patterns of economic and political development; social patterns and issues. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 203 JSIS 222 Global Markets, Local Economies (5) I&S J. BEGUN Introduces basic economic concepts and tools to analyze the growing economic impact of economic globalization on local economies around the world, in areas such as local and foreign investment, supply chains, international trade, financial markets, and economic growth. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 222 JSIS 278 Global Connections: From Global Challenges to Creative Solutions (5) I&S Focuses on the identification and understanding of current global challenges from a variety of analytical perspectives. Students from the U.S and from abroad explore creative ways to address these challenges and to effect positive change based on international collaboration. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 278 JSIS 300 Claims and Evidence in International Studies Research (5) I&S Covers the methodology of international and global studies social science research. Introduces different methods of research including quantitative, qualitative, historical, and ethnographic. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 300 JSIS 310 Data Ethnography and Qualitative Methods (5) I&S Adapts ethnographic approaches to address problems of replicability, transparency, equity, bias, and ethics in work involving the generation, analysis, and use of big data. Students build skills to interrogate the social context of big data through qualitative methods and techniques, such as participant observation, focus groups, interviewing, case studies, discourse analysis, document analysis, process tracing, and fieldwork. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 310 JSIS 384 Special Topics in East Asian Studies (5) I&S View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 384 JSIS 385 Junior Honors Seminar (5) I&S Porter Designed to facilitate writing of honors thesis through methodological and bibliographical research. Required of honors candidates. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 385 JSIS 387 Study Abroad - International Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 387 JSIS 388 Study Abroad: Canadian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 388 JSIS 389 Study Abroad: African Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 389 JSIS 390 Study Abroad: Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 390 JSIS 391 Study Abroad: East Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 391 JSIS 392 Study Abroad: South Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 392 JSIS 393 Study Abroad: Southeast Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 393 JSIS 394 Study Abroad: European Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in Study Abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 394 JSIS 396 Study Abroad: Latin American Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 396 JSIS 397 Study Abroad: Middle Eastern Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S For participants in study abroad program. Specific course content varies. Courses do not automatically apply to major/minor requirements. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 397 JSIS 478 Special Topics in International and Global Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies from quarter to quarter. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 478 JSIS 480 Special Topics in Latin American Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 480 JSIS 481 Special Topics in African Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 481 JSIS 482 Special Topics in Canadian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 482 JSIS 483 Special Topics in Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 483 JSIS 484 Special Topics in East Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 484 JSIS 485 Special Topics in South Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 485 JSIS 486 Special Topics in Southeast Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 486 JSIS 487 Special Topics in Middle Eastern Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 487 JSIS 488 Special Topics in European Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 488 JSIS 489 Special Topics in Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asian Studies (1-5, max. 15) I&S Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 489 JSIS 491 Senior Honors Seminar (5-) I&S Porter Study of issues related to students' thesis topics. Develops thesis-writing skills. Open only to Jackson School honors students. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 491 JSIS 492 Senior Honors Seminar (-5) I&S Students write a senior thesis working with their individual writing advisers. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 492 JSIS 493 Senior Research (2) Independent research and writing under supervision of a faculty member. Open only to International Studies majors. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 493 JSIS 494 Journal Workshop for Editors (1/2) Prepares students to be peer reviewers and editors for academic journals. Introduces the format and management processes of scholarly, peer-reviewed publications, as well as training in practical editing skills. Includes opportunities to work for the Jackson School Journal of International Studies. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 494 JSIS 495 Task Force (5) I&S Small-group seminars address current problems in international affairs, each focusing on one specific policy question and producing a joint task force report. Restricted to senior majors in International Studies. Prerequisite: JSIS 200; JSIS 201; JSIS 202. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 495 JSIS 497 Internship (1-5, max. 15) Credit for the completion of an approved internship in international studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 497 JSIS 498 Readings in International Studies (5) I&S Reading and discussion of selected works of major importance in interdisciplinary international studies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 498 JSIS 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 499 JSIS 500 Origins of the Modern World (5) Kasaba, Migdal Explores the development of global interdependence from the fifteenth century to World War II; the interrelationship of politics and economics; and international political economy from contextual, institutional, and historical perspectives. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 500 JSIS 501 Seminar: Comparative International Studies (5) Focuses on comparison across geographical areas including comparative political economy, comparative cultures, and comparative institutions. Provides familiarity with the comparative method of inquiry, an understanding of the interplay between area studies and cross-regional theories, and skills in conducting comparative research and writing. Prerequisite: ECON 200; ECON 201. Instructors: Bachman, Kasaba, Poznanski Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 501 JSIS 511 Research Design and Methods for International Studies (5) Chirot, Curran Review of the approaches to posing and answering research questions in the disciplines affiliated with international studies. Explores epistemological approaches and associated methodologies to prepare students to effectively read across the literature of international studies, develop their own research design based on a research question, and write a research proposal. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 511 JSIS 512 Qualitative Data Analysis (5) Provides training in data analysis for students who have selected qualitative methodological approaches for their research. Students develop skills for systematic analyses, including memo writing, coding, logging evidence, sampling, case development, vignette composition, thematic analyses, and writing of methods sections and research results. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 512 JSIS 513 Teaching International Studies (2, max. 4) Migdal For current and prospective teaching assistants. Includes teaching writing, leading effective discussions, the art of evaluation, and teaching critical reading skills; videotaping of actual teaching sessions of participants in class. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 513 JSIS 530 Foundations of the World Order (5) Covers the economic, political, military, social, and cultural forces that have shaped the foundations of the contemporary world order. Selective examination of major historical events and contemporary issues explains the role of both state and non-state actors in determining the trajectory of the international system. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 530 JSIS 531 Asia in the Contemporary World (5) T. Mallory Examines regional dynamics within Asia as well as Asia's role in the global context. It looks at the evolution of longstanding issues on the Asian agenda, including the Taiwan question, the division of the Korean peninsula, the military role of Japan, the Kashmir dispute, and regionalism and regionalization. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 531 JSIS 532 Global Challenges (5) Frames the world through a multi-disciplinary lens, exposing students to the growing community of stakeholders within the modern international affairs arena. Examines how government, business, philanthropy, and civil society engage, individually and collectively, in tackling critical global challenges. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 532 JSIS 533 Frameworks for Health Development (5) Examines the history and economic and development determinants and impacts of global health problems. Health problems and unequal access to affordable health services contribute to global poverty and inequality. Explores the important relationships between global trade, access to essential medicines, nutrition, the environment, and health. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 533 JSIS 534 Legal Foundations of World Order (5) Examines the legal foundations for the use of military force in a time of dynamic change in international relations, to include just-war theory and international humanitarian law. Topics include humanitarian intervention, the UN "responsibility to protect", terrorism, suicide bombers, "unprivileged belligerents", targeted killing, and robotic warfare. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 534 JSIS 535 Technology, Society, and the Future (5) Provides understanding of how technology is changing society. Enables students to articulate the risks and opportunities associated with rapid technological change. Students formulate and evaluate the motivations, agendas, and stakeholders shaping technological change, including corporations, civil liberties groups, advocacy groups, NGOs, donors, and government leaders. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 535 JSIS 536 Global Economic Trends (5) Examines the global economic system, including trade trends and movement of international financial markets, with emphasis on Asia and Europe through survey of transformative processes associated with the development of global capitalism; presents challenges to world order and economic development. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 536 JSIS 537 Trends in International Migration (5) Explores the causes, mechanisms, and consequences of contemporary global population movements, with a focus on migration to the United States and Europe from the top sending world regions. Topics include the relationship of persecution, conflict, and poor economic prospects to migration; the extent to which state policies can control migration. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 537 JSIS 538 Governance, Transparency, and Anti-Corruption (5) Examines the structural components of responsible governance in public and private arenas and the causes of implications of corruption on institutions and society. Covers legal frameworks governing corrupt practices, private sector ethics and anti-corruption measures, corruption in development aid, and international transparency initiatives. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 538 JSIS 539 U.S. Foreign Policy and Diplomatic Engagement (5) Explores how the U.S. Executive Branch develops and implements foreign and security policy. Examines the actual conduct of foreign affairs, from defining national interest to day-to-day foreign engagement, based on case studies on how the U.S. advances its policy agenda using military, diplomatic and other means. Students refine analytical and presentation skills with short briefings on current topics and concise policy memos. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 539 JSIS 540 Economics and Poliics of International Development (5) J. BEGUN Examines the political economy of development in less-developed nations in particular, post-World War II development in Africa and East Asia. Covers basic economic theory and surveys the roles and tools of domestic and foreign governments, international organizations, aid agencies, and businesses in affecting development outcomes. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 540 JSIS 541 Religion and Conflict in International Politics (5) J. WELLMAN Covers global issues of religion, politics and internationals conflicts as they relate to question of fundamentalism, nationalism and terror. Investigates fundamentalism as a response to globalization and modernization. Reviews connections between religious violence and international relations, human security and global security. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 541 JSIS 542 Dimensions of Security (5) Examines the evolution of global security agendas in response to security challenges that are increasingly non-military and longer term in nature. Through a Middle East lens, students examine traditional security issues, and the emergence of non-conventional challenges and threats, such as environmental degradation and resource scarcity. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 542 JSIS 543 Professional Skills for Capstone Success and Beyond (1) Hones skills necessary for success in the Master of Arts in Applied International Studies capstone courses - and in later careers. Includes public speaking and presentation, project management, effective communication, developing actionable recommendations, and sessions focused on the characteristics and practices of highly effective teams. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 543 JSIS 544 Applied Research Client Project - Part I (5) MAAIS capstone experience. Students work in teams to tackle an international affairs challenge presented by an external client. Students arrange a client briefing, define the scope of the challenge, analyze the underlying issues, and begin to flesh out actionable policy and programmatic recommendations. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 544 JSIS 545 Applied Research Client Project - Part II (3) Students work with an external client to address a challenging international issue and provide actionable recommendations. Teams create a written project report and present their findings to the client. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 545 JSIS 546 Modernity after Empire: View from the Global South (5) S. Kale, J. Lucero Interrogates the making of the modern world from the perspective of the global South. Thinking about global post-imperialism political and economic and economic projects in Africa, Latin America, Asia, and the Middle East, provides a critical introduction to debates over nation, development, and globalization. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 546 JSIS 547 Changing Nature of States and Societies (5) Explores global stability and instability, focusing in on four principal domains of transformation in contemporary nation states: poverty, religion, migration, and energy. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 547 JSIS 548 Geopolitical Issues and Challenges (5) Examines interconnected challenges affecting global geopolitics, using South Asia as a frame of reference and drawing linkages to the boarder global context. Issues covered include international security decision-making, civil-military relations, state-federal relations, and regional-global dynamics. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 548 JSIS 549 Crisis Negotiation (4) Guides students in applying their knowledge to realistic analyses of current problems in international studies through an intensive simulation experience that emphasizes leadership, negotiation, and real-tie crisis management and decision-making. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 549 JSIS 578 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15) Course content varies. Offered occasionally by visiting or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 578 JSIS 582 Special Topics (2-5, max. 10) Course content varies. Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 582 JSIS 583 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Special topics in Asian Studies. Course content varies by instructor. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 583 JSIS 584 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15) Course content varies. Offered occasionally by visiting or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 584 JSIS 585 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15) Course content varies. Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 585 JSIS 586 Special Topics (1-5, max. 15) Sears Course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 586 JSIS 587 Special Topics (3-5, max. 15) Course content varies. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 587 JSIS 589 Special Topics (2-5, max. 15) Course content varies. Offered occasionally by visitors or resident faculty. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 589 JSIS 591 Colloquium in International Studies (1-, max. 2) Migdal, Kasaba Required colloquium for first-year Master in International Studies (MAIS) students. Informal introduction to the faculty and major avenues of research in international studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 591 JSIS 592 Colloquium in International Studies (-1-, max. 2) Migdal, Kasaba Required colloquium for first-year Master in International Studies (MAIS) students. Informal introduction to the faculty and major avenues of research in international studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 592 JSIS 593 Colloquium in International Studies (-1, max. 2) Migdal, Kasaba Required colloquium for first-year Master in International Studies (MAIS) students. Informal introduction to the faculty and major avenues of research in international studies. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 593 JSIS 594 International and Area Studies (2) Hamilton, Kasaba, S. Pekkanen Exposes students to the four-fold thematic intellectual rubric of the school, and to the wide range of teaching and research agendas represented in the Jackson School. Required common course for all first-year graduate and doctoral students. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 594 JSIS 595 Research Tutorial ([1-15]-, max. 15) Introduces students to social science research methods that may be applicable to their research agenda. Focuses on reading, discussion, commentary, writing, and especially rewriting under close and targeted supervision by the professor. Offered: jointly with LAW B 554. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 595 JSIS 596 Field Seminar in Religions, Cultures, and Civilizations (5) Robinson, Wellman Exposes students to the diversity of cultural and religious life through world area studies; histories; cultural and political movements; and religious institutions and practices. Topics include religions, cultures, power, colonialism, empire, communities, nations, states, identities, alterities, civilizations, social movements, resistance, development, and security. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 596 JSIS 597 Field Seminar in States, Markets, and Societies (5) Exposes students to theoretical and empirical debates about engagement of states with their societies and with transnational actors in their historical, political, and social settings. Topics include state formation, social change, development, state-market relations, globalization, identities, ethnicities, gender, revolutions, democratization, corruption, clientalism, civil societies, NGOs, and social movements. Offered: jointly with SOC 597. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 597 JSIS 598 Field Seminar in Peace, Violence, and Security (5) Chirot, S. Pekkanen Exposes students to theoretical and foreign policy debates about global security challenges, conflicts, and violence, and issues of their prevention. Topics include balance of power, nationalism, ethnic conflict, genocide, offense-defense balance, weaponry, intelligence, invasions, interventions, peacekeeping, arms control, and national security. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 598 JSIS 599 Field Seminar in Law, Rights, and Governance (3-5) Saadia M. Pekkanen, Angelina Snodgrass Godoy, Kathie Friedman Exposes students to theoretical and policy debates about the causes and consequences of legal evolution, rule of law, and a broad range of world governance concerns. Topics include human rights, markets, commerce, climate, environment, migration, institutions, justice, order, and rule of law. Offered: jointly with LAW B 568. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 599 JSIS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 600 JSIS 602 International Studies Practicum (2-3, max. 6) Professional practicum for student in International Studies graduate programs. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 602 JSIS 700 Master's Thesis (*) View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 700 JSIS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*) View course details in MyPlan: JSIS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022