Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Physics and Materials Science About Undergraduate Graduate People Research Resources News SPS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Seminars Alumni Spotlight Current Seminars Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture Newsletter Seminar Archives Fall 2021Spring 2021Fall 2014Fall 2013 Take Action Apply Now Contact Us Alumni Spotlights and Newsletters Seminars and Endowed Lecture Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Physics and Materials Science Seminars Seminar Schedule Spring 2022 During the fall and spring semesters, the Department of Physics and Materials Science is pleased to present weekly seminars. The seminars will be held in person in Manning 201 on Friday afternoons from 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. Note that some events may be held at different times or locations. Please see the details for each week below. For further details, please contact Dr. Chenhui Peng (cpeng@memphis.edu) or Dr. Shawn Pollard (Shawn.Pollard@memphis.edu). Date Speaker Affiliation January 18, 2022 First day of class (Tuesday) January 21, 2022 Warm-up week - no seminar January 28, 2022 Memorial For Dr. Donald Franceschetti, Professor Emeritus Shelby Room of the University Center (UC Room 342) Register and Attend via Zoom Physics and Materials Science The University of Memphis February 4, 2022 Dr. Bradley Yale Canceled; University Closure due to Inclement Weather. Physics and Materials Science The University of Memphis February 11, 2022 Dr. Daniel Nascimento Chemistry The University of Memphis February 18, 2022 Dr. Nina Hernitschek Data Science Institute & Department of Physics and Astronomy Vanderbilt University February 25, 2022 Dr. Alexandre David-Uraz Howard University and NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. March 4, 2022 Dr. Charlotte Welker Physics and Astronomy Johns Hokpins University March 11, 2022 Spring Break No Seminar March 18, 2022 Dr. Benjamin Keller Center for Astronomy Heidelberg University, Germany March 25, 2022 6:00 p.m. Dr. Kelly Holley-Bockelmann "Bringing Gravity to Light" Lois McGlothlin Donaldson Endowed Lecture in Physics Physics and Astronomy Vanderbilt University April 1, 2022 Dr. Michael Tremmel Department of Astronomy Yale University April 8, 2022 Dr. Omar Skalli Integrated Microscopy Center and Life Sciences The University of Memphis April 15, 2022 Dr. Tammy L. Haut Donahue Biomedical Engineering The University of Memphis April 22, 2022 Memorial For Dr. Narahari Achar, Professor Emeritus Register here to attend via Zoom. Physics and Materials Science The University of Memphis April 28, 2022 Last day of class (Thursday) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.