Skip to main content Search About From the Directors Mission & History Advisory Council Faculty Fellows Staff Newsletters & Brochure Contact Programs News & Events News Events Videos Seminars & Conferences Newsletters & Brochure Subscribe Annual Robert Glauber Lecture Publications Working Papers and Reports Books GrowthPolicy Newsletters & Brochure Students B&G PIC Funding & Prizes Study Groups Other Opportunities Search About From the Directors Mission & History Advisory Council Faculty Fellows Staff Newsletters & Brochure Contact Programs News & Events News Events Videos Seminars & Conferences Newsletters & Brochure Subscribe Annual Robert Glauber Lecture Publications Working Papers and Reports Books GrowthPolicy Newsletters & Brochure Students B&G PIC Funding & Prizes Study Groups Other Opportunities Search Search Trade and Negotiations Program In This Section Centers & Initiatives Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government About Programs News & Events Publications Students Search In This Section You are here Home Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Programs Trade and Negotiations Program Five reasons why the focus on trade deficits is misleading What’s wrong with our system of global trade and finance A trade war is no reason to ease monetary policy The Trade and Negotiations Program seeks to improve trade policymaking through research, dissemination of ideas, and teaching. It has a particular focus on the dynamics of international trade negotiations in multilateral, regional, and bilateral forums; on problems of global governance; and on international dispute settlement procedures at the World Trade Organization. The program conducts an executive program on The Practice of Trade Policy, and writes case studies covering major trade negotiations and disputes. Faculty leadership Robert Lawrence Appointment Albert L. Williams Professor of International Trade and Investment 617-495-1118 Mailing Address 1 Harvard Kennedy School Mailing Address 2 79 John F. Kennedy Street Mailbox 61 City Cambridge State MA Zip 02138 Resources HKS Course: The Political Economy of Trade This course for enrolled students focuses on the political economy of trade in goods and services across borders. Beyond the traditional subject matter of tariffs, quotas, and other border barriers, it covers newer issues that the system has incorporated in recent decades (e.g., services, capital, and intellectual property rights), still more topics that are politically linked to trade (e.g., labor rights and the environment), and the use of trade as a tool of foreign policy. The inter-disciplinary course involves considerable work with economic data, but places greater stress on pending issues and practical problems than on economic theory. Learn more. Executive Education: Mastering Trade Policy Globalization has made trade policy a more prominent and complex sphere of public policy. Policymakers, analysts, business people and activists must deal simultaneously with initiatives at the national, bilateral, regional and multilateral levels. This Executive Education course is designed for all trade practitioners. It teaches how to analyze, formulate, negotiate and implement effective policies and practices. It offers a practical approach that emphasizes the core competencies of successful practitioners as well as the latest political and policy developments in the field. Learn more. Trade policy research featured in M-RCBG's GrowthPolicy M-RCBG's GrowthPolicy project features thousands of articles, papers, book chapters, interviews and videos on growth, including more than 400 posts that reference Trade Policy. Lean more. Atlas of Economic Complexity: A tool for exploring trade The Atlas of Economic Complexity, developed at Harvard’s Center for International Development, is a powerful data visualization tool that allows people to explore global trade flows across markets, track these dynamics over time and discover new growth opportunities for every country. The Atlas places the industrial capabilities and knowhow of a country at the heart of its growth prospects, where the diversity and complexity of existing capabilities heavily influence how growth happens. Learn more. Featured Publications China, Like the US, Faces Challenges in Achieving Inclusive Growth Through Manufacturing. Robert Lawrence, Peterson Institute for International Economics, August 2019 The Trilemma: Dani Rodrik’s views on trade, development, and democracy enter the mainstream. Marina Bolotnikova, Harvard Magazine, July-August 2019 The sparring over trade. Robert Lawrence, Harvard Gazette, June 7, 2019 China tariffs may not be a negotiating ploy; they could be the goal. Q&A with Robert Lawrence, Sep 27, 2018 How To Avoid a Trade War. Dani Rodri, Project Syndicate, July 10, 2018 Donald Trump’s trade policy violates every rule of strategy. Lawrence H. Summers, June 5, 2018 What Do Trade Agreements Really Do? Dani Rodrik, Journal of Economic Perspectives. 2018 Straight Talk on Trade: Ideas for a Sane World Economy. Dani Rodrik, Princeton University Press, 2017 China's Rise and America's Welfare. Robert Z. Lawrence, Paper in PIIE Briefing 15-3 China's Economic Transformation: Lessons, Impact and the Path Forward, October 2015 Rising Tide: Is Growth in Emerging Markets Good for the United States? Robert Z. Lawrence with Lawrence Edwards Washington DC: The Peterson Institute for International Economics, March 2013 Additional Research and Op-Eds No trade deal can dictate our relationship with China. Lawrence H. Summers, Washington Post, February 4, 2019 One Fewer Reason to Be Nervous About the G-20 This Weekend. Meghan O'Sullivan, Bloomberg Opinion, November 29, 2018 Donald Trump trade threats lack credibility. Lawrence H. Summers, April 8, 2018 Misconceptions on the Campaign Trail: American Workers Can’t Compete with Low-Wage Workers Abroad. Robert Z. Lawrence. Trade and Investment Policy Watch, The Peterson Institute for International Economics April 21st, 2016 Trump's Outrage over Outsourcing Doesn't Apply to His Own Merchandise. Robert Z. Lawrence, PBS Newshour March 2016 TPP benefits for workers far outweigh costs. Robert Z. Lawrence. Trade and Investment Policy Watch, The Peterson Institute for International Economics March 2016 Studies of TPP: Which Is Credible? Robert Z. Lawrence. Trade and Investment Policy Watch, The Peterson Institute for International Economics Jan 29 2016 Adjustment and Income Distribution Impacts of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Robert Z. Lawrence and Tyler Moran, Working Paper 16-5 Peterson Institute for International Economics, March 2016 Silk-Road Type Projects: Lessons from Some Historical Examples. Robert Z. Lawrence and Fredrick Toohey in PIIE Briefing 16-2 China's Belt and Road Initiative: Motives, Scope, and Challenges Recent Declines in Labor's Share in US Income: A Preliminary NeoClassical Account. Robert Z. Lawrence, Peterson Institute for International Economics Working Paper WP15-10, June 2015 Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business & Government Harvard Kennedy School Weil Hall 79 JFK Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Programs News Events Faculty Fellows Students Working Papers Subscribe Contact Us Privacy Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/MRCBG https://twitter.com/HKS_BizGov https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBIKMs_Ed3XMtDnhcDOdrSw https://soundcloud.com/harvardkennedyschool/sets/m-rcbg