Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Lyle Home Academics Academics Departments Advising Multidisciplinary Programs Distance Education Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Studies Research Research Research Opportunities Contact Us Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes Hart Center Caruth Institute Hunt Institute Darwin Deason Institute Apply Now Apply Now Visit Lyle Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Resources FAQ's Connect with Us Alumni Alumni Lifelong Learning Alumni Program Support Lyle Industry Mentor Program Recruiting at Lyle Cox & Lyle Red Zone Tailgate on the Boulevard About Lyle About Lyle Our Namesake: Bobby B. Lyle Mission Statement Message from the Dean Dean's Office Faculty Directory 9 Things Every Lyle Student Should Know Job Opportunities Support Lyle Get in Touch ☰ Research with Impact SMU Lyle Home Research Research The impact of the research we conduct ripples through our fields of study, our community, our economy, our country and throughout the world. It has a significant impact on the quality of students and faculty we attract to our school. We choose to focus our efforts on topics in which our faculty have the expertise to be truly excellent. We support innovative new research through seed funding that helps bridge the gap between ideas and first external funding. We strive to combine our collective expertise and seek out collaborators to enable novel and important research, which we are uniquely situated to jointly accomplish. We train Ph.D. students to be outstanding academics, as well as respected industry leaders. We partner with colleagues in other institutions to explore how our ideas may impact the world outside the boundaries of the University. Through vigilant focus we will impact: the state-of-the-art in our chosen fields of research, the known best practices in engineering education, the bottom line in organizations in which our students and faculty are engaged, the global poor, the schools at which our students become professors, the pipeline of STEM-interested students, innovative new products, Dallas, healthcare policy, the security of our nation… the list goes on and on. Lyle Research News Overwhelming numbers of uninsured dialysis patients may have a systemic solution Screening protocols to determine who qualifies for “compassionate dialysis” in hospitals with high numbers of uninsured patients are driving an unintended consequence, an SMU analysis has found. Learn More Lyle prof Jianhui Wang listed among most "Highly Cited Researchers" for 2021 The annual list identifies researchers who demonstrated significant influence in their chosen field or fields through the publication of multiple highly cited papers during the last decade. Learn More We can prepare better for Hurricanes. Here's how. OREM professor Halit Üster has received a three-year, $315,000 grant from the National Science Foundation that will allow him to explore ways to help move millions safely out of harm's way in the event of a catastrophe — with enough supplies available to meet their needs. Learn More More News Research by Department CEE Civil and Environmental Engineering CS Computer Science ECE Electrical and Computer Engineering ME Mechanical Engineering OREM Operations Research and Engineering Management Centers & Institutes Caruth Institute for Engineering Education Empowering U.S. high school graduates with enthusiasm and knowledge to pursue the engineering careers required to compete in a global economy. Learn More Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security Advancing the science, policy, application and education of cyber security through basic and problem-driven, interdisciplinary research. Learn More Hunt Institute for Engineering & Humanity A national and international hub partnering with business leaders, academia, NGOs and government to develop solutions for local and global challenges. Learn More Hart Center for Engineering Leadership At the Hart Center, we pair an elite technical education with exceptional leadership and professional development skills to produce world-changing engineers. Learn More Research Opportunities Contact Us School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus