Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Ph.D. Funding External Funding Graduate School Skip to Navigation External Funding External awards are prestigious and a valuable acknowledgement of intellectual pursuit and promise. In addition, writing a fellowship proposal can clarify your thinking about your research and improve your ability to communicate its essence and potential impact. The competition also can expose you to valuable feedback. Receiving a competitive external fellowship is an honor that stays with you throughout your career and can improve your professional prospects. The Graduate School also offers financial incentives to students who apply for and are awarded external funding. The Graduate School collaborates with the University Library and other University partners to maintain a Grant Finding Guide with links to a variety of external funding opportunities across all divisions and stages of graduate study. This Guide also includes a section with tips and suggestions specifically for international students. The listings include access to subscription services, such as SPIN, a database of opportunities from federal, governmental, international, private and corporate funders. This Guide should be one of your first stops in looking for funding opportunities. Master’s and Doctoral students are encouraged to work with their programs and advisors in preparing their applications. These offices offer some support for students applying to external fellowships, particularly for fellowships which only allow a limited number of applicants from Brown in each application cycle: Social Science Research Institute (SSRI) The Division of Biology and Medicine’s Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies The Graduate School also works directly with students who are pursuing external fellowships which require institutional endorsement. These include The U.S. Student Fulbright fellowship programs including applications for both Research/Study and English Teaching Assistantships as well as Critical Language Enhancements. The DAAD scholarship program for research in Germany. The Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund Fellowships for research in the Humanities and Social and Natural Sciences. Look at the Graduate School's newsletter and Twitter account, where we post notices of fellowship opportunities. External Funding Links SPIN Funding Database SPIN+ (via InfoEd) is a database of opportunities from federal, governmental, international, private and corporate funders. Office of Sponsored Projects OSP assists in the identification of funding sources, the preparation of proposals, and the negotiation of agreements. Incentive Policy Winning an outside grant: What's in it for students? The Graduate School provides incentive supplements for external fellowship awards received by eligible doctoral students in good standing. @BrownGradSchool Follow Brown Graduate School on Twitter for announcements about fellowships and other external funding opportunites. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Initiatives in Doctoral Education and Student Support Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Office of Sponsored Projects Writing Center Graduate Recognition Ceremony Program External Funding Workshop Video Deadlines for Major External Fellowships Incentives Policy Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants