Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search SMU Meadows School of the Arts The Movement The Movement The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Ask questions. Find answers. Get outside your comfort zone. At the Meadows School of the Arts, we encourage students to challenge themselves and take risks, travel across the world, enroll in classes beyond their majors, test ideas, question culture and values, and attend performances and events from other disciplines. You’ll find many opportunities to learn, explore and broaden your perspective – and to "Start a Movement." "Start a Movement" isn't just a slogan. It is what we expect from our students. Do it locally, globally, for yourself, for profit or for humanity, but whatever it is, we want you to move, innovate, begin, explore and create. If you become famous, congratulations. We'll be excited and even put your picture on the website. But making people famous is not our aim: It is much more important for you to become a satisfied and fulfilled working artist or professional for the rest of your life. We will contribute to your career by helping you hone the fundamentals of your craft, provoking you to think in new ways, and increasing your resources to explore how the world is changing or, more importantly, how you can change the world. Whatever you've heard about the road to success, forget it. There is no guaranteed path to success, and there are many different ways to define it. At the Meadows School at SMU, we leave the definition up to you. We will give you a range of extraordinary creative experiences, individual attention, rich opportunities to intersect with various ideas about what is great, and encouragement to follow in the footsteps of our alumni by creating your own success. Bring your passion. We will expand your idea of what is possible and give you techniques that will prepare you to engage your world. We will even give you some start-up money through our Exploration Awards. Answer our call: START A MOVEMENT. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search