COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Residency Section Menu Residency Home Residency Application and Forms Residency Definition Residency FAQ Residency Statutes Kansas Residency for Tuition Purposes The determination of residency for tuition purposes affects whether a student pays resident or non-resident tuition. Nonresident tuition is a higher hourly tuition rate. Classification as a resident of Kansas for tuition purposes is governed by Kansas state law and regulations, not university policy. Residency for other purposes, or at a Kansas community college, is governed by different laws and regulations. A person can be a resident for any other purpose and NOT be a resident for tuition purposes at a state university. The information below provides a general overview and key issues related to residency. It does NOT replace or supersede the residency statutes or regulations which contain the detailed requirements that must be met in order to prove resident status. You must have continuous physical residency in Kansas for at least 365 days prior to the first day of classes for which you are applying for residency. You must also be a permanent resident or U.S. citizen. During those 365 days, your sources of financial support to meet your living expenses must come from Kansas sources. Living expenses include tuition and books if you are student. Sources of income that are from full-time, non-student jobs are more beneficial. Maintaining ties to other states will hinder your residency. You must show intent to remain in Kansas indefinitely. This intent is exhibited by actions taken, not simply by a statement of intent. Many factors are evaluated in a residency review and can strengthen an application. These factors may include, but are not limited to: Kansas driver's license, voter registration in Kansas, car registration in Kansas, owning a home in Kansas, etc. No factor shall be considered in support of a claim for resident status unless the factor has existed for at least one year before enrollment or reenrollment. Please note: these factors do not make you a resident by themselves. You must prove that you are residing in Kansas for reasons other than educational purposes. If you have been enrolled full-time since coming to Kansas, this can be very difficult to prove because we will presume that you are here for educational purposes. Eligible Veterans and Active Duty Military Please email residency@wichita.edu or call (316) 978-3672 to confirm if you are currently classified at WSU as a Resident for tuition purposes. Students who have had a military household often need to submit a military residency application. Please email residency@wichita.edu for more information regarding this form. Kansas Board of Regents Residency Rules and Regulations regarding military Personnel and Veterans can be viewed at: 88-3-8a Military personnel and veterans - Page 14 (kansasregents.org) Helpful Links: Residency Definition Application Procedures and Forms Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Residency Regulations- Kansas Administrative Regulations (K.A.R.) - Kansas Board of Regents Residency Statutes - Kansas Statutes Annotated (K.S.A.) - Kansas State Legislature Questions? (316) 978-3672 residency@wichita.edu or visit the 102 Jardine Hall counter 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©