Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Hilltop Sports Camp Campus Recreation Programs Youth What is Hilltop Sports Camp? Each summer, Southern Methodist University's Department of Recreational Sports offers Hilltop Sports Camp for children entering 1st through 6th grade during the month of June. Hilltop is a day camp with weekly sessions beginning in June. The main focus of our camp is to provide a variety of opportunities, both conventional and non-conventional, for kids to maintain healthy and active lifestyles during the summer. Camp activities will utilize the state of the art facilities available at the fully air conditioned Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports on SMU's Dallas campus. Our primary goal at Hilltop Sports Camp is to have fun and be active! Counselor Application Hilltop Sports Camp Counselor Application Summer 2022 Welcome to the application process to become a Hilltop Sport Camp Counselor. We invite you to review the responsibilities below, and then submit the requested items to complete your application. Work Schedule: Training: June 1 - 3, times tbd Camp Dates: June 6 – July 1, Monday through Friday, hours vary between 7:45 a.m. – 5 p.m. Pay rate: $12/hour Job Responsibilities: Model good-sportsmanship in sport-related activities through enthusiastic, non-competitive participation and support. Help out other instructors and counselors to maintain guidance during each activity. Model all skills in all activities through participation or working with small groups in the case a Specialty Counselor is present. Lead group from one activity to another in an orderly matter inside and outside the facility. Keep accurate attendance records, incident and accident reports. Report them immediately to the Hilltop Camp Director. Supervise lunch as well as snacks and activities to ensure cleanliness of the area. Interact and discuss camper's participation, performance, and behavior with parents in a professional manner. Attend mandatory staff training on June 1 - 3, 2022. Be available for all camp sessions from June 6, 2022, through July 1, 2022. Attend weekly staff meetings during camp sessions. Maintain the cleanliness and organization of the camp activity and storage area. Keep the campers you are responsible for under constant supervision. Perform head counts. Ensure safety during recreational activities and respond as trained in the case of an emergency. Be aware of general expectations for participation in all SMU Campus Recreation program areas including Fitness, Outdoor Adventure, Intramurals, and Aquatics. Other duties as assigned Required Application Materials: Submit a Cover Letter that includes the following items: Why you would like to be a Hilltop Camp Counselor What qualities you possess that will make you a successful counselor Leadership experience and what you have gained from a specific leadership experience. What experience you have in working with children Resume to include experience in the following categories: Employment Leadership Certifications Education List of 3 references and their contact information Email your documents to hilltopsportscamp@smu.edu Interviews will be scheduled upon receipt of application. For questions, please email hilltopsportscamp@smu.edu Registration Hilltop Sports Camp Registration Camp registration is online (Click on Registration above). Payment is due at the time of registration through the online credit card payment system. Wait lists will be available for filled sessions. Email hilltopsportscamp@smu.edu to add to the waitlist. Cancellation Policy: Cancellations will be accepted until May 1, 2022. An email with your cancellation request must be sent to hilltopsportscamp@smu.eduby May 1, 2022. A full refund will be granted, less a $75 administrative fee. NO refunds will be granted beyond May 2, 2022. Go to Camp Sessions for session dates and cost. Please take note that ALL CAMPERS MUST BE ENTERING 1st GRADE for the 2022-2023 school year in order to register for our camps. Payment Payment must be made at the time of registration by completing the credit card payment online. Payment cannot be accepted in any other form. Release of Liability Form Please print and complete one release of liability form per camper. Waivers must be mailed to the address listed below or submitted in person at drop off. Mailing Address for Release of Liability Form Hilltop Sports Camp PO Box 750161 Dallas, TX 75275 For additional information, please email hilltopsportscamp@smu.edu or call 214-768-3367. General Information SAFETY Hilltop Sports Camp is under the supervision of SMU Department of Campus Recreation’s professional staff. Staff members will be available throughout the day to campers as well as counselors, to render aid and ensure fluidity. Trained camp counselors will be a constant presence to conduct the daily operations of camp during and between all activities. All counselors are American Red Cross First Aid and CPR certified and have completed rigorous trainings focused on dealing with issues involving child supervision and safety as well as emergency preparation. Each staff member must submit a background check before they are offered employment. PICK-UP & DROP-OFF PROCEDURES Campers, accompanied by a parent/guardian or responsible party, will check in each morning at 9 a.m. Campers will be picked up at 3 p.m. each day by the responsible party. Responsible parties must be registered with camp staff prior to pick up date. PHOTO ID REQUIRED. WHAT TO BRING (PLEASE SEND ITEMS IN A BACKPACK) Please include: Athletic Shoes are REQUIRED Swimsuit (to be worn to camp each morning) Towel Refillable Water Bottle Extra clothing Lunch AM Snack Please do NOT include: iPods/Portable Gaming Systems Personal toys Money Cell Phones will be ALLOWED but must remain with campers' items and will not be permitted during camp activities SMU, the Department of Campus Recreation, and Hilltop Sports Camp is not responsible for lost or stolen items. WHAT TO WEAR Hilltop campers will be assigned two swim days and shall come to camp on those days ready to swim. Comfortable athletic wear appropriate for physical activity should be worn over swim clothes. ATHLETIC SHOES ARE ABSOLUTELY REQUIRED. BEFORE & AFTER CARE Hilltop Sports Camp's regular day runs from 9 a.m. - 3 p.m. Hilltop strives to accommodate more schedules by offering Before Care and After Care options, Monday through Friday, at an additional fee. This gives parents the opportunity to have some flexibility in dropping off and picking up their child from the Dedman Center facility. Before Care: Drop-Off Times: 8 - 9 a.m. ($20/session/camper) After Care: Pick-Up Times: 3 - 5 p.m. ($40/session/camper) Payment must be made in advance for campers participating in Before Care or After Care. Campers dropped off before 8:50 a.m. more than one day per week may be charged the weekly fee for Before Care. Campers remaining after the 3 p.m. pick-up time more than one day per week may be charged the After Care fee until 5:00 p.m. Campers remaining after the 5 p.m. pick-up time will be charged a $10 flat fee for the first five minutes and a $1 per minute after the first five minutes. Additional care charged must be paid by check or credit card the following morning before the camper is permitted to return to camp. Camp Sessions June 6 - 10 June 13 - 17 June 20 - 24 June 27 - July 1 Registration Fee: $250 per week Activities and Facilities The goal of Hilltop Sports Camp is to have fun and be active. We strive to introduce unique methods for creating and maintaining a healthy and active lifestyle. Each session, campers will have the opportunity to participate in a wide range of activities including but not limited to areas such as aquatics, intramural recreation, health, and fitness. Activities will utilize many of the facilities listed below. Aerobic/Dance Rooms Basketball Courts Indoor Track Multipurpose Courts Outdoor Water Recreation Area Indoor Recreation Pool Sand Volleyball Courts REGISTERED CAMPERS Parent Handbook Release of Liability Form *Release of Liability required for each camper Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share