Skip to main content Faculty Research Clusters Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Skip to Section About the Cluster News Projects and Publications Degree Programs Faculty Cluster Leads: Talat Rahman, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Physics [email protected] Patrick Schelling, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Physics [email protected] UCF’s Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation Cluster, or REACT, is developing new, alternative materials for catalysis to power our technology and chemical processes to do so that are safe for people and the environment. The production of electricity from renewable sources, like solar, is a cost-competitive alternative to fossil-fuel-generated electricity, and alternatively powered forms of transportation are rapidly gaining acceptance. Essential to harnessing these forms of alternative energy is research into the materials needed to produce and store them. Energy research is critical in slowing growth in carbon emissions without slowing economic growth. Within the past few years, increases in carbon emissions are now less than the rate of economic growth, due in large part to new renewable energy sources coming online. Valuable Partnerships UCF and Florida already have large investments in energy and propulsion technologies (Siemens, Mitsubishi, Lockheed Martin, GE/Alstom, Pratt & Whitney, Aerojet Rocketdyne, Space-X and ATK), and more recently with the Florida Advanced Manufacturing Research Center. These local investments benefit from closer connections to ongoing research at UCF, enabled by existing links to UCF’s Florida Solar Energy Center and Center for Advanced Turbines and Energy Research. History of High Impact UCF has a history of implementing high-impact, entrepreneurially focused curricula. Most recently, the university worked closely with the DoE on implementing two cleantech-focused efforts – an annual cleantech accelerator, which was designed to identify and support promising cleantech technologies throughout the Southeast, and the Florida Cleantech Acceleration Network, which created a statewide support network and “proof of concept” center for cleantech entrepreneurs. These programs served more than 200 ventures that went on to raise more than $5 million in follow-on funding on their paths to commercialization. Overcoming Obstacles Increased awareness of the potential societal and economic impacts of climate change are driving clean energy research, and UCF’s Florida Solar Energy Center is playing an important role in this effort. National investments are starting to yield important advances, and clean energy is becoming economically competitive. In fact, utility solar and rooftop solar power are actually cheaper than electricity-generated fossil fuels. However, there are still critical obstacles that require investment, especially in areas related to energy conversion and storage – all of which this cluster helps to address. Congratulations – Dr. Talat Rahman: UCF REACT Co-Lead, Talat Rahman, was invited to become the 2021 Mercator Fellow with RUHR-UNIVERSITÄT BOCHUM. As part of the fellowship Dr. Rahman was invited to give virtual lectures introducing the basics of her field of research and underlying methodology. Those lectures can be viewed here. UCF Colleges Involved with Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Research: College of Engineering and Computer Science College of Sciences Florida Solar Energy Center NanoScience Technology Center Advanced Materials Processing and Analysis Center In The News UCF Researchers’ Ethanol Fuel Cells Offer New Alternative to Power Cars, Technology An ethanol fuel cell produces less emissions and uses less fuel than combustion engines, doesn’t require recharging like battery-powered technology,… UCF Awarded $800,000 Grant to Establish Center on Materials Research and Education Materials research is of national interest because it promises to address many challenges from quantum communications to energy generation. UCF Researchers Develop New Nanomaterial to Derive Clean Fuel from the Sea The material offers the high performance and stability needed for industrial-scale electrolysis, which could produce a clean energy fuel from… Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Research Projects Ultrafast electron and molecular dynamics investigations on 2D nanostructured photocatalytic materials for the generation of fuels from renewable sources Understanding and tuning the electrohydrogenation mechanisms for ambient nitrogen fixation Ambient electrocatalytic activation of methane towards C2 Oxygenates Property tuning of metal oxides to achieve high NOx removal efficiency in NH3-SCR Reaction for diesel emission control Understanding and predicting reactivity and selectivity of single atom catalyst Commercialization of Renewable Natural Gas in Florida Publications “Improving the passivation of molybdenum oxide hole‐selective contacts with 1 nm hydrogenated aluminum oxide films for silicon solar cells”, Parag Banerjee, Ph.D., Titel Jurca, Ph.D., Kris Davis, Ph.D., physica status solidi (a): May, 2020 “Catalytic C2H2 synthesis via low temperature CO hydrogenation on defect-rich 2D-MoS2 and 2D-MoS2 decorated with Mo clusters”, Mihai Vaida, Ph.D., Duy Le, Ph.D., Talat Rahman, Ph.D., Journal of Chemical Physics 152(7), 074706: Feb, 2020 “Self-catalyzed, low-temperature atomic layer deposition of ruthenium metal using zero-valent Ru(DMBD)(CO)(3) and water”, Duy Le, Ph.D., William Kaden, Ph.D., Talat Rahman, Ph.D., Parag Banerjee, Ph.D., Chemistry of Materials 31, 1304-1317: Jan, 2019 “Boosting alkaline hydrogen evolution: Dominating role of interior modification in surface electrocatalysis”, Yang Yang, Ph.D., Abdelkader Kara, Ph.D., Energy & Environmental Science: Jul, 2020 “Stabilizing atomic Pt with trapped interstitial F in alloyed PtCo nanosheets for high-performance zinc-air batteries”, Yang Yang, Ph.D., Abdelkader Kara, Ph.D., Energy & Environmental Science 13(3), 884-895: Nov, 2019 “Exploring thiophene desulfurization: The adsorption of thiophene on transition metal surfaces”, Abdelkader Kara, Ph.D., William Kaden, Ph.D., Surface Science 686, 30-38: Aug, 2019 “Using DFT models of thiophene adsorption at transition metal interfaces to interpret periodic trends in thiophene hydrodesulfurization on transition metal sulfides”, Abdelkader Kara, Ph.D., William Kaden, Ph.D., Catalysis Letters 149(11), 2953-2960: Jul, 2019 “Using a nitrophenol cocktail screen to improve catalyst down-selection”, Xiaofeng Feng, Ph.D., Titel Jurca, Ph.D., ChemPhysChem 21, 1627-1631: Jul, 2019 “A combined mechanochemical and calcination route to mixed cobalt oxides for the selective catalytic reduction of nitrophenols”, Titel Jurca, Ph.D., Fernando Uribe-Romo, Ph.D., Molecules 25(1), 89: Dec, 2019 “A broader-scope analysis of the catalytic reduction of nitrophenols and azo dyes with noble-metal nanoparticles”, Xiaofeng Feng, Ph.D., Titel Jurca, Ph.D., ChemCatChem 11(11), 2590-2595: Apr, 2019 Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Degree Programs UCF offers a degree program track for students interested in renewable energy and power. For more programs, search UCF programs below. Search Programs Electrical Engineering (BSEE) – Power and Renewable Energy Track Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Faculty Parag Banerjee, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Email [email protected] Xiaofeng Feng, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Physics Email [email protected] James Fenton, Ph.D. Director, Florida Solar Energy Center Email [email protected] Titel Jurca, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Chemistry Email [email protected] William Kaden, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Abdelkader Kara, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Duy Le, Ph.D. Assistant Scientist of Physics Email [email protected] Fudong Liu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Civil, Environmental and Construction Engineering Email [email protected] Nazim Muradov, Ph.D. Research Professor of the Florida Solar Energy Center (FSEC) Email [email protected] Nina Orlovskaya, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Mechanical, Material and Aerospace Engineeing Email [email protected] Talat Rahman, Ph.D. Pegasus Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Patrick Schelling, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Sergey Stolbov, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Fernando Uribe-Romo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Chemistry Email [email protected] Volodymyr Turkowski, Ph.D. Research Assistant Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Mihai Vaida, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Physics Email [email protected] Yang Yang, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering Email [email protected] UCF Research Clusters Faculty Clusters Home Biionix Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology (DAT) Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy and Chemical Transformation (REACT) Resilient, Intelligent and Sustainable Energy Systems (RISES) Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women (VAW) Additional Research Links World-class Faculty Research Technology Transfer Ethics and Compliance Research Development Areas of Excellence 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816