Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the President Menu Search TTU Administration Office of the President Office of the President Staff President's Office Leadership Grace Hernandez Chief of Staff and Vice President for Administration As Chief of Staff and Vice President for Administration, Grace Hernandez reports directly to the President and serves as the liaison between the President and other members of his senior staff. In addition, Human Resources, the Office of Communications & Marketing, the Title IX office, and the President's Performance Series report to Grace. She has a long history working in higher education and previously served as Chief of Staff to the President and Affirmative Action Director at The University of Missouri-Kansas City (UMKC). Prior to UMKC, she served as the Director of Diversity & EEO Office at The University of Texas at San Antonio (UTSA). Grace earned her B.A. in English from UTSA and received a M.A. in Human Resources Development from Webster University. She is also an active member in the Lubbock community and has served on the board of the Lubbock Chamber of Commerce, the Science Spectrum, United Way and CASA of the South Plains. Mikki Ross Executive Assistant to the President Mikki began her career at the university in 1996 and serves as the Executive Assistant to the President. In 2012, she joined the Office of the President and has supported Presidents and, previously, Vice Presidents in four divisions. She earned her B.A. degree from TTU in 1999. Mikki cherishes time with her husband and two daughters and pursuing their many interests. Lori Ann Garcia Executive Associate Lori supports the Chief of Staff and Vice President for Administration. She has an integral role in the management and function of the office. Lori also supports many administrative functions: human resource processes, the university's preparations for Board of Regents meetings, executive position searches, special committees and other administrative duties. She has previously assisted other administrative leaders in the President's Office. Prior to arriving in the office, Lori supported the Director of Athletics and the Associate Vice President for Operations as well as the office of Quality Service & Professional Development where she began her Texas Tech career in 2008. Her passion is to serve in many capacities related to her faith and other extra-curricular activities. The loves of Lori's life are her husband, two beloved and beautiful daughters, one amazing bonus daughter, her grandson and grand-triplets, and extended family and all her cherished friends. Rachel Guel Anthony Senior Administrative Assistant Rachel Guel Anthony is a Senior Administrative Assistant and will be the first person one encounters when entering the suite. In her multi-faceted role, she supports Dr. Kimberly Simón, Title IX Administrator; Dóri Bosnyák, Lead Administrator to the Presidential Lecture & Performance Series; and Dr. Stephen Balch, Director of The Institute for the Study of Western Civilization. Rachel also supports the suite staff by welcoming all guests into the suite, answering the main phone line, purchasing material for the office, and an array of other administrative duties. She previously worked as a Business Administrative Assistant for the Office of Student Conduct where she directly supported the Managing Director and other professional staff. In her role, Rachel prepared Cognos financial reports, assisted in budget prep, budget revisions, and quarterly budget reports on all departmental FOPs among other duties. She has been with Texas Tech University since November 1, 2012. In her free time, Rachel enjoys spending time with her family and also plays in a women's tennis league for fun. Anne Ogas Senior Administrative Assistant Anne Ogas is a Senior Administrative Assistant and plays an important role in the daily operations of the President's suite. She is one of the first staff members guests will encounter when entering the President's Suite. In her multi-faceted role, she supports Lori Garcia, Executive Administrative Associate; Mikki Ross, Executive Assistant to the President; Carla Lovelace, Senior Event Coordinator and Isabel Torres, Event Coordinator. Anne also supports the suite staff by welcoming all guests into the suite, answering the President's main phone line, office procurement, reconciling business transactions, and an array of other administrative duties. Prior to joining The Office of the President at Texas Tech University, Anne served as an Internal Auditor, Accountant, Executive Administrative Assistant, and many other roles for Red Raider Outfitter; a local and alumni owned retail store for Texas Tech merchandise. She also has extensive banking experience as a Lead Teller with Wells Fargo, along with general customer service experience in the food and beverage industry as well. Anne's passion is to serve in as many capacities related to her faith and core values when the opportunity arises. In her free time outside of those events, she enjoys spending time with her family and friends. She remains active by chasing around her 5-year-old son who is big into dinosaurs, trains, and outdoor playtime. Title IX Office Kimberly Simón Assistant Vice President — Title IX Kimberly Simón serves as the Title IX Administrator at Texas Tech, working to ensure a safe environment for the campus community. The office collaborates with various stakeholders across the institution to provide resources and remedies, campus-wide education on policies and procedures, and crucially, a fair and equitable process for all parties involved in a Title IX matter. Having been at the university for over a decade, Kimberly has had the opportunity to serve in several roles, including as an instructor in the College of Human Sciences, and working with the Student Activities Board. In 2015, Kimberly became the first director of the Risk Intervention & Safety Education (RISE) Office, laying the groundwork for the prevention and wellness education and outreach for Tech students. Kimberly earned her M.S. and Ph.D. in marriage and family therapy from Texas Tech, and holds a B.S. in human development from Virginia Tech. Kimberly was proudly recognized as a 2017 Top Techsan and awarded the 2017 Paul Michael Rogers Activist Award for service to the Lubbock LGBTQ community. President's Office Events Carla E. Lovelace Senior Event Coordinator Carla Lovelace is the Senior Event Coordinator in the Office of the President. Carla plans, coordinates, publicizes and implements special events hosted by the President. Carla also represents the President's Office by serving on committees such as the Lubbock Lights committee, the Official Texas Tech University Ornament committee and the Presidential Scholarship committee. Prior to arriving in the President's Office, Carla was Senior Administrative Assistant to the CEO of Texas Tech Physicians at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, where she assisted with all operational functions related to the School of Medicine Administration. A former Tech student and a proud Tech parent, she supports functions related to athletic activities, academic enhancement, and direct student involvement in the President's office and personally enjoys both athletics and the academic environment at Texas Tech. Prior to coming to Texas Tech, she had extensive administrative experience in the banking and legal professions. Carla enjoys spending time with family, including her three delightful grandchildren. Isabel Torres Event Coordinator Isabel Torres is an event coordinator in the Office of the President. Isabel plans, coordinates, and implements student-focused events sponsored by the Office of the President. Isabel also represents the Office of the President by serving as the Advisor to President's Select Ambassadors. In this role, Isabel advises and assists the President's Select Officers in recruitment for the University, scheduling visits on behalf of the Office of the President, and coordinating presidential events with ambassadors. Isabel is a proud Texas Tech University alumna. She graduated in 2019 with a Bachelor in Business Administration in Information Technology. She also has her Masters in Business Administration from Sul Ross University. Prior to arriving in the President's Office, Isabel was an IT support Specialist at IT Help Central at Texas Tech. Isabel comes from a large family and enjoys spending time with them, but especially enjoys time spent with her husband and three children. She loves getting to know people and learning about different cultures. Presidential Lecture and Performance Series Dóri Bosnyák Lead Administrator to the Presidential Lecture & Performance Series Dóri Bosnyák is the Lead Administrator to the Presidential Lecture & Performance Series and is thrilled to serve as an arts presenter, offering vibrant and relevant lectures, concerts, dance performances and theatrical experiences by world class artists to the greater West Texas community. She hails from Budapest, Hungary, which Hungarians consider the “Heart of Europe”. Growing up in such a distinctive cultural & historical hub, she gained an appreciation for the visual and performing arts early on. She made her way to the U.S. in 2011 where she received her two BA degrees in Film, Theatre and Performance Studies and International Studies at Graceland University (Lamoni, IA). After entering the performing arts field in Kansas City, MO, she made her way to TTU after thorough research for the best arts management degree. She is now a proud alumna of TTU's MFA Arts Administration program in the School of Theatre & Dance, which enabled her for success with PLPS through myriad hands-on opportunities and Lubbock connections. She feels incredibly fortunate to have found a home and a growing & inspiring arts community in Lubbock and she is giddy to build upon the PLPS vision. In her free time, Dóri continues to further develop her long-time passion: solving all the mysteries of arguably the most important Hungarian creation, the Rubik's cube. She is an active member in the Lubbock art community and is currently serving as President to the Board of Directors for the Outside In Theatre Festival & is as of recent, co-chair to the Kennedy Center American College Theater Festival Region VI ASPIRE/Arts Administration track. Centennial Coordination Blayne Beal Director of Centennial Coordination Blayne Beal serves as Director of Centennial Coordination and in that role, he is responsible for the planning and execution of Texas Tech's Centennial Celebration in 2023. He will be charged with implementing a comprehensive marketing and communications strategy, event management and carrying out the day-to-day charges of the Centennial Planning Committee that is being co-chaired by Chief of Staff and Associate V.P. Grace Hernandez and Honors College Associate Dean/Professor Aliza Wong. He has spent 20 years on the Texas Tech University campus, including 15 years in athletics where he served as Associate Athletics Director for Communications. Prior to joining the Office of the President, he served as Director of Marketing & Communications for the College of Arts & Sciences. Over the course of his career, he has been honored to receive numerous professional accolades from entities such as the American Advertising Federation, the Football Writers Association of America, The Telly Awards, Texas Tech University and PRSA (Public Relations Society of America). An active member of PRSA, Blayne currently serves the organization on the National Nominating Committee, holds the position of secretary of the District Council and is past chair of the Southwest District. Blayne holds a Bachelor of Arts in Public Relations from Texas Tech University and a Master of Science in Sports Management from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. He earned his APR (Accreditation in Public Relations) from the Universal Accreditation Board in November 2019. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the President Address 115 Administration Building, Box 42005, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2005 Phone 806-742-2121 Fax 806-742-2138 Email pres.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 7, 2022 10:02 AM Office of the President About the Office Office of the President About the Office Back Councils Office of the President About the Office Back Executive Council Advisory Council Athletic Council Gender Equity Programs Office of the President About the Office Back Congressional Internships Official Texas Tech Ornament President's Select Presidential Leadership and Globally Engaged Scholarships Presidential Excellence Awards Title IX Communications Office of the President Communications Back Presentations President's Perspective Letters / Memos 2020 President's Report Events Office of the President Back Presidential Lecture & Performance Series Lubbock Lights Top Scholars Red Raider Orientation Texas Tech Alumni Association REDRaider Talks Administration Office of the President Back Administration Office of the President Administration Back Leadership Organizational Chart Staff Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index