Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Giving to Baylor Menu About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Baylor>Giving to Baylor>Ways to Give>Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Transferring securities, either stocks or bonds, allows you to make a gift to the university and receive a charitable deduction equal to the full fair market value. You also may avoid paying a capital gains tax on your charitable contribution. Appreciated Securities Minimize tax and maximize gift Benefits Giving appreciated securities—stocks and bonds—can be tax efficient for the donor. If you make a gift of securities directly to Baylor, you will receive an income tax deduction—and gift credit with Baylor—for the full market value, without paying any capital gains tax. If you were to sell these securities before making the gift, you would have to pay tax on any capital gains. How to If you own securities in a brokerage account, these shares can easily be electronically transferred to Baylor. Complete and return Baylor’s Stock Transfer Form. Please contact us for assistance if you own stock in certificate form. Closely held stock and other securities that are not publicly traded work best when there is a mechanism for Baylor to sell the gifted interest to other shareholders or the corporation itself. For these gifts, the donor must usually obtain an appraisal to claim a tax deduction. Contact us for assistance. Gifts of Real Estate We support all types of gifts Gifts of real estate can have special benefits for both the donor and the recipient. You may give real estate as a current gift and receive a charitable deduction for the full fair market value of the gift. Gifts must meet certain criteria in order to be accepted by the university. Outright Gifts Benefits Receive a charitable income tax deduction for the full fair market value of the property. Avoid capital gains tax on any appreciation. Transfer to Baylor the burden and expense of managing and selling your property. Create a lasting legacy at Baylor with your gift. Did you know? Property subject to a mortgage may not be suitable as a gift to Baylor due to tax and other considerations. Before accepting a gift of real estate, Baylor must conduct due diligence on the property, including assessment of marketability and environmental concerns. How to Baylor’s Office of Gift Planning with the support of Baylor’s Office of Real Estate Services has all the resources and expertise needed to facilitate most real estate gifts. Please contact us for assistance. Retained Life Estate Benefits Transfer title to your personal residence now, while retaining the right to live in or use it for the rest of your life or another’s life. Upon the death(s) of the life tenant(s), title to the property vests in Baylor and any subsequent sale proceeds will be applied to the purpose you designate. You receive an immediate income tax deduction based on the fair market value less the present value of the retained life estate. Did you know? If you move out of the donated property, you can still rent it and collect the rental income. While they are living, life tenants are responsible for property taxes, insurance, maintenance and upkeep, although they do not pay any rent to Baylor. Properties subject to a mortgage may not be appropriate for this type of gift. Before accepting a gift of real estate, Baylor must conduct due diligence on the property, including assessment of marketability and environmental concerns. How to Please contact us for assistance. Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds In Memory of Jim Bargainer In Memory of Jane Meyer In Memory of Steve Hunter In Memory of Kathy Tinius Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Office of University Advancement Clifton Robinson Tower, Ste. 800 One Bear Place #97026 Waco, TX 76798-7026 (254) 710-2561 (800) 229-5678, option 4 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Give Light Campaign Give Online Memorials and Tributes General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Leadership Directory News Stories of Giving Give Light Ways to Give Gifts of Cash Gifts of Securities, Real Estate and Personal Property Matching Gifts Memorials and Tributes Memorial and Tribute Funds Bricks and Pavers Gift and Estate Planning Corporate Gifts Priorities Academic Units College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering and Computer Science School of Music University Libraries Athletics Athletics Excellence Fund Baylor Spirit Squad Bear Foundation Dutch Schroeder Letterwinners' Legacy Endowment Fund Parents Baylor Parent Fund Library Excellence Fund Parents Endowed Scholarship Student Emergency Fund Student Life Excellence Fund Special Interests Baylor in Washington Excellence Fund Baylor/Waco Foundation Museums Senior Class Gift Student Life Baylor Line Camp Student Emergency Fund Student Foundation Student Life Excellence Fund Student Missions Student Scholarships General Scholarship Fund Establishing an Endowed Scholarship The Torch (crowdfunding) Giving Societies 1845 Society 1845 Society Impact Report 2021 Old Main Society Make a Gift