Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Biotechnology (BS) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Medicine Department(s) Biomedical Sciences In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Biotechnology B.S. produces highly trained workers that will meet the workforce needs of the biotechnology industry. Students seeking admission to professional schools (medical, dental, optometry, veterinary, podiatry, and pharmacy) will meet most of the admission requirements for those programs while obtaining a Biotechnology B.S. degree. Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, they must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once per semester. Courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Agricultural Research Director Anatomy Professor Bacteriology Professor Biochemistry Professor Biologist Botany Professor Bryologist Embryologist Embryology Professor Geochemical Manager Geophysical Manager Microbiology Professor Ocean Program Administrator Osteologist Paleobotanist Phytopathologist Plant Etiologist Zoology Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Medicine programs Bachelors Biotechnology (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Biotechnology B.S. produces highly trained workers that will meet the workforce needs of the biotechnology industry. Students seeking admission to professional schools (medical, dental, optometry, veterinary, podiatry, and pharmacy) will meet most of the admission requirements for those programs while obtaining a Biotechnology B.S. degree. Admission Requirements Students who declare this major come in on a "Pending" status. In order for students to transition out of "Pending" status, they must earn a "C" or better in each of the following courses or their equivalents: BSC 2010C, CHM 2045C, CHM 2046, CHM 2210. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog Students should complete the General Education Program before transferring within the Florida College System or State University System. Students should consult with a BSBS academic advisor at least once per semester. Courses designated in section 1 below may be taken at a Florida College System institution, and should usually be completed in the first 60 hours Grades below "C" in Common Program Prerequisites, Core Requirements and Restricted Electives are not accepted. Students in undergraduate majors within the College of Medicine are expected to consistently make good progress towards their degrees. Therefore, the COM/BSBS Progress Policy mandates that undergraduate students meet the requirements of the policy. Below are the specific requirements of the Progress Policy: Students with 3 withdrawal (W) grades will be placed in a probationary status. Students with 5 withdrawal (W) grades will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Medical withdrawals are not included in this withdrawal component. Students who earned 5 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U) will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students who earn more than 8 low grades (C-, D, F, W, NC, U), will meet with an advisor from Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. Students with 2 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will be placed on a probationary status and will meet with a peer mentor for major advising. Students with 3 unsuccessful attempts of the same UCF course will meet with an advisor from the Knights Major Exploration and Transition Center for selection of a different major. While many students discover that they have interests in varied disciplines at the University of Central Florida, they are not permitted to pursue two majors within the College of Medicine. College of Medicine students may declare a major and a minor within the college, or pursue a second major or minor in another academic college at UCF. Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor to discuss these opportunities. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 0 Total Credits None Core Requirements: Advanced Level (52 Credit Hours) 51 - 52 Total Credits 52 Credit Hours Life Sciences 28 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: MCB3020C - General Microbiology (5) PCB3522 - Molecular Biology I (3) PCB4524 - Molecular Biology II (3) MCB4720 - Industrial Perspectives Seminar (3) MCB4312 - Molecular Biotechnology (3) PCB4135 - Applied Molecular Cell Biology (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: BSC3403C - Quantitative Biological Methods (4) MCB4721C - Methods in Biotechnology (4) Select one of the following sequences of courses: Complete 1 of the following Complete the following: PCB4280 - Molecular Immunology (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) Or Complete the following: PCB3233 - Immunology (3) PCB3233L - Immunology Laboratory (1) Chemistry 6 Total Credits Complete the following: BCH4053 - Biochemistry I (3) CHM2046L - Chemistry Fundamentals Laboratory (1) CHM2211L - Organic Laboratory Techniques I (2) Physics 8 Total Credits Select one of the following sequences of courses: Complete 1 of the following Complete the following: PHY2053C - College Physics I Studio (4) PHY2054C - College Physics II Studio (4) Or Complete the following: PHY2048C - General Physics Using Calculus I Studio (4) PHY2049C - General Physics Using Calculus II Studio (4) Math 3 - 4 Total Credits Complete at least 1 of the following: MAC2311C - Calculus with Analytic Geometry I (4) MAC2253 - Applied Calculus (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Two courses minimum, no more than one may be taken outside the Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences. Each graduate must complete 3 credits of MCB 4912 or MCB 4970H or serve an internship. Only three hours of Honors thesis or undergraduate research will count toward the restrictive elective requirement. Those students who do not qualify for MCB 4970H may elect MCB 4912 Undergraduate Research as a substitute course, but a research report must be submitted to instructor after completion of research project. Additional restricted electives can be taken as approved by the associate director. Earn at least 6 credits from the following: BCH4054 - Biochemistry II (3) BCH4103L - Biochemical Methods (2) MCB3203 - Pathogenic Microbiology (3) MCB4404 - Bacterial Genetics and Physiology (3) MCB4204 - Cellular Microbiology: Host-Pathogen Interactions (3) PCB4284 - Immunobiology (3) MCB4503C - Virology (3) MCB4603 - Environmental Microbiology (3) PCB3063 - Genetics (3) PCB3703C - Human Physiology (4) PCB4234 - Cancer Biology (3) PCB4521 - Tissue Engineering (3) PCB4805 - Endocrinology (3) MCB4414 - Microbial Metabolism (3) MCB 4912 - Directed Independent Research Credit Hours: 3 MCB 4970H - Honors Undergraduate Thesis II Credit Hours: 3 MCB 5225 - Molecular Biology of Disease Credit Hours: 3 MCB 5505 - Molecular Virology Credit Hours: 3 MCB 5654C - Applied Industrial Microbiology Credit Hours: 3 MCB 5932 - Current Topics in Molecular Biology Credit Hours: 3 PCB 5275 - Signal Transduction Mechanics Credit Hours: 3 Grand Total Credits: 51 - 52 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida