Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Ethics Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Ethics Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Ethics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Ethics Certificate Study the central issues, concepts, history and methodologies of ethical reasoning with the Ethics Undergraduate Certificate in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 12-credit certificate is offered by the Department of Philosophy and available to Temple undergraduate students in all majors. You’ll develop an intellectual and practical framework for understanding ethical problems in your everyday life, as well as within specific fields such as business, environmental policy and medicine, among others. In your coursework, you’ll learn to critically examine arguments, express yourself articulately, and reason and resolve ethical dilemmas. The Ethics Certificate program prepares students for professional life by teaching them how to define and follow ethical guidelines and codes of conduct. In your professional pursuits, you’ll demonstrate the ability to understand ethics in the workplace and public life, and be committed to ethical leadership. Classes & Curriculum Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded either as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. All Ethics Certificate coursework begins with the required Introduction to Ethical Theory course. Students select two of the following applied/professional ethics course options, some of which are offered at the honors level. Business Society and Ethics Environmental Ethics Ethics in Medicine To complete the certificate, students choose one of the following. Classics in Moral Philosophy Contemporary Ethical Theory Good & Bad, Right & Wrong Learn more about Undergraduate Ethics Certificate coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Philosophy MA Philosophy PhD Careers The skills gained from a liberal arts degree are highly relevant in today’s rapidly evolving world. Apply the experience and knowledge acquired in the Ethics Certificate (Undergraduate) program to your professional pursuits across many organizations and industries, including academics, cultural institutions, government agencies or the social sciences. The program can serve as a pathway for graduate study, including professional studies in business, law and medicine. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Paul Crowe is the undergraduate advisor in the Department of Philosophy. Phone: 215-204-8591 Email: pcrowe@temple.edu Program Contact For questions regarding the Undergraduate Ethics Certificate, contact the following staff member. Belinda Wilson is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: bwilson@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Philosophy Department. Kristin Gjesdal is the chair in the Department of Philosophy. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: kgjesdal@temple.edu Sonia Lawson is the coordinator. Phone: 215-204-1742 Email: slawson@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ETHC-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Ethics Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info