Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Peace and Presence: Trauma Informed Poetry-Writing Events Past Event Peace and Presence: Trauma Informed Poetry-Writing Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo October 13, 2021 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Working within trauma-informed prompts, this poetry workshop creates a safe space that starts with grounding and connecting to participants with a brief discussion of poetic possibility and is followed by prompts that are put in a specified amount of time for participants to write. Music is provided during writing phases and affirming connections to participants are provided throughout. A brief poetry reading would complete the workshop. The session will be facilitated by Dr. Juanita Kirton. Dr. Juanita Kirton earned an MFA from Goddard College & her poems are published in several anthologies. Her new chapbook titled “Letters To My Father” released in 2020 published by Finishing Line Press. She has new work in progress.  Juanita has been a Teaching Artist with Crossing Point Arts for many years, working with poetry to inspire healing. Peace & Presence is a Columbia SVR initiative that introduces diverse holistic wellness tools and techniques for survivors of sexual trauma to experience and adapt to their own wellness needs. The program envisions a space where survivors feel held, understood without having to explain themselves, and given space to breathe and connect with one another in profoundly spiritual and experiential ways. Through its multi-faceted approach to mindfulness, movement, and nurturing of one’s body, this program hopes to aid survivors to recognize and cherish their innate capacity to transcend trauma while being connected to a caring community of allies. Register in advance for this webinar: https://columbiahealth.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_jFCwvGS9RYemmzIHgMSGGg If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 in advance of the event. Contact Information Sexual Violence Response 212-854-3500 [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close