Skip to main content Search: Go Search Filters: This Site Cornell Menu Search Cornell Home About Us Education Hospitals Health Topics Diagnostic Center Departments Research Impact Alumni Directions Contact Us Emergency Phone Numbers Routine and Emergency Care Companion Animal Hospital in Ithaca, NY for cats, dogs, exotics, and wildlife 607.253.3060 Directions Equine and Nemo Farm Animal Hospitals in Ithaca, NY for horses and farm animals 607.253.3100 Directions Cornell Ruffian Equine Specialists, on Long Island for every horse 516.488.4510 Directions Ambulatory and Production Medicine for service on farms within 30 miles of Ithaca, NY 607.253.3140 Directions Animal Health Diagnostic Center New York State Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory 607.253.3900 Directions General Information Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Ithaca, New York 14853-6401 607.253.3000 Directions Questions? Email Us People Giving Emergencies Department of Clinical Sciences In this section: Departments Biomedical Sciences Clinical Sciences Faculty Alphabetically Faculty by Specialty Committee on Promotion, Tenure, and Mentoring Committee on Research and Graduate Education Committee on Teaching and Clinical Service DCS Research and Grant Planning About Us Contact Us Employment Opportunities Innovation Lab Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Medicine Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciences Public and Ecosystem Health CVM Departments, Centers and Institutes The Department of Clinical Sciences in Cornell University's College of Veterinary Medicine is largely composed of residency trained veterinarians who are board certified in a clinical specialty. The department endeavors to balance its threefold missions of teaching, service and research. Faculty are dedicated to excellence in teaching and contribute to classroom and laboratory teaching throughout the curriculum. Substantial effort is provided towards clinical training of DVM professional students, interns and residents through faculty's professional service in the Cornell University Hospital for Animals (CUHA). Both clinical and basic research are highly valued and faculty strive to enhance the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of animal disease, promote animal health and productivity, and take advantage of our unique access to naturally-occurring clinical disease in order to explore mechanisms of fundamental importance to biomedical science. Clinical TrialsVolunteer for Clinical Trials today! Faculty employmentClinical Track and Tenure Track opportunities in the Department of Clinical Sciences Cornell veterinary biobank Genetically Advancing Medical Research ResearchFaculty Research Planning Resources Synthetic canine cadaversHands-On Education Through Medical Simulation Congratulations Tom DiversInducted into the University of Kentucky Gluck Equine Research Hall of Fame Congratulations To: Dr. Heidi Reesink, promoted to Associate Professor with tenure, Section of Large Animal Surgery Dr. Ian Porter, reappointed as Assistant Clinical Professor, Section of Diagnostic Imaging Dr. John Loftus, reappointed as Assistant Professor, Section of Small Animal Medicine Dr. Michelle Delco, recipient of the Harry M. Zweig Assistant Research Professorship in Equine Health Dr. Noha Abou-Madi, reappointed as Associate Clinical Professor, Section of Zoological Medicine Dr. Robert Goggs, promoted to Associate Professor with tenure, Section of Emergency and Critical Care The following faculty members were approved for a change in title: Joaquin Araos, Assistant Clinical Professor Cheryl Balkman, Full Clinical Professor Jordyn Boesch, Associate Clinical Professor Marta Castelhano, Associate Research Professor Jorge Colon, Associate Professor of Practice Ricardo de Matos, Associate Clinical Professor Ed Earley, Associate Clinical Professor Jethro Forbes, Assistant Clinical Professor Assaf Lerer, Assistant Clinical Professor Carolyn McDaniel, Full Professor of Practice Meredith Miller, Associate Clinical Professor Jamie Morrisey, Full Clinical Professor Michelle Moyal, Assistant Clinical Professor Gillian Perkins, Full Clinical Professor Nathan Peterson, Associate Clinical Professor Robin Radcliffe, Associate Professor of Practice Rolfe Radcliffe, Associate Clinical Professor Sarah Robbins, Assistant Clinical Professor Gretchen Schoeffler, Full Clinical Professor Dr. Heidi Reesink, recipient of the 2021 Zoetis Award for Veterinary Research Excellence Dr. Alexander de Lahunta, recipient of the ACVIM Specialty Lifetime Achievement Award Dr. Julia Miller, recipient of the Zoetis Distinguished Teaching Award Welcome New Faculty: Dr. Yael Merbl, Assistant Professor, Section of Neurology Dr. Emma Houck, Assistant Clinical Professor, Section of Zoological Medicine Dr. Kelly Knickelbein, Assistant Clinical Professor, Section of Ophthalmology Dr. Peter Early, Visiting Clinical Professor, Section of Neurology Dr. Tim Hackett, Department Chair, Professor, Section of Emergency and Critical Care Dr. Christopher Tollefson, Assistant Clinical Professor, Section of Diagnostic Imaging Dr. Stephanie Hon, Assistant Professor, Section of Anesthesiology Dr. Katharyn Mitchell, Assistant Professor, Section of Large Animal Internal Medicine Dr. Robin D. Gleed, Senior Associate Chair, Department of Clinical Sciences Dr. Eileen Hackett, Professor, Section of Large Animal Surgery In Memoriam: Gil Ben Shlomo, DVM, PhD 1970 - 2020 Recent News More News Futile veterinary care is widespread, study finds New faculty profile: Dr. Sarah Robbins College community members win SUNY Chancellor's Awards Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine Contact College Careers Follow us on: Privacy Site Feedback Accessibility Land Acknowledgement Site Map Intranet Cornell University ©2016