Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Research Menu About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Baylor>Research>About>Find A Researcher>White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease When Bryan Shaw’s son, Noah, was diagnosed with retinoblastoma at four months of age, it began a family’s long journey towards healing—and a Baylor professor’s quest to help families like his own. Learn how Bryan Shaw, associate professor of chemistry, and Greg Hamerly, associate professor of computer science, collaborated to build the White Eye Detector app, a Science Advances gold-standard tool enabling parents to screen for pediatric eye disease. Learn More about Bryan Shaw and Greg Hamerly Feb 12 2020 WATCH: White Eye App on CBS This Morning The White Eye App, developed by Baylor professors Bryan Shaw and Greg Hamerly, is a Science Advances gold standard tool which enables parents to screen photos of their children for pediatric eye disease. CBS This Morning reports on the app, and shares how one family used the app for early detection of Coates Disease to avoid further eye damage for their six-year old son. Dec 9 2019 LISTEN: Baylor Connections with Bryan Shaw and Greg Hamerly When Bryan Shaw’s son, Noah, was diagnosed with pediatric eye cancer at four months old, it sparked in Shaw a mission to help other families avoid the challenges his faced. On this Baylor Connections, Dr. Bryan Shaw, associate professor of chemistry, and Dr. Greg Hamerly, associate professor of computer science, share the moving story behind the White Eye Detector app. Oct 3 2019 Prototype Smartphone App Can Help Parents Detect Early Signs of Eye Disorders in Children, Study Finds WACO, Texas (Oct. 3, 2019) — A Baylor University researcher’s prototype smartphone app — designed to help parents detect early signs of various eye diseases in their children such as retinoblastoma, an aggressive pediatric eye cancer — has passed its first big test. Oct 2 2019 Science Advances: Autonomous early detection of eye disease in childhood photographs Here, a free smartphone application (CRADLE: ComputeR-Assisted Detector of LEukocoria) was engineered to detect photographic leukocoria and is available for download under the name “White Eye Detector.” Oct 3 2018 Baylor NSF CAREER Award-Winning Researchers Exemplify Diverse Range of Disciplines WACO, Texas (Oct. 3, 2018) – The National Science Foundation (NSF) supports researchers at every level of experience, but the agency also places a high priority on cultivating the work of promising scientists, technologists, engineers and mathematicians through Early Career Development Grants, known collectively as CAREER grants. Five Baylor University faculty members have received these grants that dramatically develop their research paths early in their academic careers. Sep 15 2016 8 ways Baylor researchers are battling cancer Baylor professors and their students throughout the College of Arts and Science are engaged in high-level research focused on the fight against cancer. Each professor brings his or her own unique insight to the fight, but all seek to better understand how the disease behaves and grows in different ways, which could lead to breakthroughs in how the disease is treated. Mar 16 2016 Baylor Profs’ Eye Cancer App Literally Saving Kids’ Lives Learn how an app created by two Baylor professors has been used around the world to detect eye cancer and save the lives of young children. Jan 5 2014 Family photos help detect cancer Baylor professor turns son's diagnosis into motivation to explore new ways to identify retinoblastoma Dec 3 2013 WATCH: Retinoblastoma Research Identifies Tool for Early Detection in Infants Baylor University (Texas) and Harvard Medical School (Mass.) researchers are helping make pediatric eye cancer easier to detect. Bryan F. Shaw, Ph.D., assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Baylor, discovered, through the use of amateur digital photography, evidence of leukocoria or "white eye," the cardinal symptom of retinoblastoma, can be seen in photographs during the earliest stages of the disease. About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Download White Eye Detector (App Store) Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Our Research Commitment Research Contacts Find A Researcher White Eye Detector: How Baylor Research Fights Pediatric Eye Disease Meals-to-You Baylor University Celebrates Four 2020 CAREER Grant Winners Baylor Celebrates National STEM Day Highlights Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership & Ethics Baylor in Latin America Other Research Initiatives Facilities, Centers & Institutes FAQ Priorities Industry Professionals Baylor Researchers R1 Impact