Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University GSAS Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded I am a... Degree Programs Student Guide Graduate Life Our Community Blog Prospective Student Current Student Faculty & Staff Alumna / Alumnus Admissions MA Programs PhD Programs Coronavirus Information for GSAS Students Financing Your Education New Student Guide Policy Handbook Research Teaching The Dissertation Career Development Convocation Diversity and Inclusion GSAS Writing Studio Graduate Student Center Student Life & Well-Being Alumni Network Dean’s Welcome GSAS at a Glance History Publications Staff Contact Us GSAS You are here: Home Graduate Life Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion At the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, diversity is an academic value — one that is a marker of institutional excellence as well as a benchmark of innovation for our research and scholarship, programming, and student experience. The Office of Academic Diversity and Inclusion is the space within GSAS in which we enact daily and intentionally our commitment to create an intellectual collective that is reflective of the disparate experiences of its constituents. Many of OADI's programs and resources are targeted to the unique needs of students from groups that historically have been underrepresented in higher education settings within the United States, such as our Decentering Academia workshop series. We also offer programs and resources that are relevant for all students as we consider issues related to diversity and inclusion together, such as our Diversity Film Series with Scholars on Scene. OADI's objectives are to: • Reduce institutional barriers to high-quality graduate education and training for students from underrepresented and otherwise marginalized backgrounds; • Enhance the graduate-student experience to promote intellectual growth and excellence; • Prepare graduate students from all backgrounds in the principles of diversity, inclusion, and educational equity. Our office works in close alignment with the Students of Color Alliance (SoCA), and with Initiative for Diversity in Engineering and the Sciences (IDEaS) and Women in Science at Columbia (WISC) as well as other student groups and campus partners to promote community-building and provide opportunities for professional development. If you have ideas for programming, wish to get involved in any of our upcoming events, or are interested in learning more about the Graduate School’s efforts in the area of diversity, equity, and student inclusion, we welcome you to reach out to us at [email protected]. To view the Graduate School's full statement on diversity and inclusion, please click here. Key Contacts Office of Academic Diversity and Inclusion 107 Low Library, MC 4304 535 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 [email protected] Celina Chatman Nelson Associate Dean for Academic Diversity and Inclusion [email protected] (212) 851-9851 Afiya Wilson Assistant Director of Academic Diversity and Inclusion [email protected] (212) 854-2866 Barbara Nesmith Operations Assistant [email protected] (212) 854-8903 Anti-Racism Resources President Bollinger's statement on anti-racism University Life's anti-racism resource page OADI Calendar Click here to view upcoming programs and events. OADI Newsletter Click here to sign up for the OADI newsletter. Connect with Our Community Programs OADI Research Collective The OADI Research Collective is an interdisciplinary group of PhD students who are researching topics of particular interest to underrepresented groups. Pedagogies of Race and Oppression Learning Community The Learning Community collectively engages focused topics in pedagogy and practice as they relate to race and marginalization. OADI Student Delegation The OADI Student Delegation comprises GSAS students who are interested in supporting efforts to enhance academic diversity, inclusion, and equity within the Graduate School and across its many departments. Diversity Film Series with Scholars On Scene The GSAS Office of Academic Diversity and Inclusion hosts monthly film screenings at the Graduate Student Center. Graduate Student Mentors Each year OADI hires 4-6 Graduate Student Mentors to co-teach weekly seminars and workshops and provide one-on-one mentoring to visiting undergraduate students. Summer Research Program The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences hosts the eight- to ten-week Summer Research Program (SRP) for undergraduates with a demonstrated commitment to diversity and inclusion. Fellows in Academic Administration: Graduate Diversity and Inclusion Every fall semester, OADI appoints two doctoral students to serve as Fellows in Academic Administration for Graduate Diversity and Inclusion. Decentering Academia OADI’s monthly seminar series centers the experiences of students from backgrounds that historically have been underrepresented in academic settings Resources Diversity Project Grants Program This grant allows students to apply for funding to support events, projects, or programming that will enhance diversity and promote student inclusion efforts in GSAS. Application Fee Waivers The Graduate School will waive the application fee for US citizens or permanent residents currently enrolled in a US college or university who demonstrate financial need. Provost Diversity Fellowship GSAS is proud to participate in the Provost’s Diversity Fellowship initiative, established in 2012 to enhance the diversity of Columbia’s PhD programs. Student Affinity Groups The GSAS Office of Academic Diversity advises various affinity groups at the Graduate School. LADO job postings View a list of available faculty positions listed on the LADO (Liberal Arts Diversity Officers) website. Academic Jobs and Fellowships: Application Documents Consultation Meet with Associate Dean Celina Chatman Nelson to discuss job application materials. C3 New Scholar Series The New Scholar Series is a mechanism to introduce graduate students from underrepresented groups to liberal arts colleges. C3 Pathways to Academia: Visits and Experiences (PAVE) Program C3 PAVE visits enable graduate students and postdoctoral fellows from C3 partner universities to visit liberal arts college campuses for a two-day event to inspire undergraduates to apply for C3 summer fellowships and consider graduate school. Partners Creating Connections Consortium (C3) Columbia is one of the founding institutions of the C3 initiative. Center for Teaching and Learning The CTL partners with faculty, students, and colleagues across the university to support excellence and innovation in teaching and learning. Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion The Office of the Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity and Inclusion facilitates faculty development, diversity, and planning initiatives with an emphasis on creating a welcoming and inclusive climate at the university. Office of University Life The Office of University Life is a hub for University-wide student life information and initiatives. Graduate School of Arts and Sciences109 Low Memorial Library, MC 4306, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-8903 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close