Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Apply News Archive Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Archive Student Research: Different tracks, same dinosaurs: Brown researchers dig deeper into dinosaur movements Using X-ray-based technology developed at Brown University, researchers, including lead author Morgan Turner, a Ph.D. candidate in ecology and evolutionary biology, uncover shared subsurface movement patterns between birds and dinosaurs, adding a new dimension of fossil track diversity. “This is the first study that’s really shown how the bird foot is moving below ground, showing the patterns of this subsurface foot motion and allowing us to break down the patterns that we're seeing in a living animal that has feet similar to those of a dinosaur,” said Turner. Read more. Student Research: Researchers develop ultra-sensitive device for detecting magnetic fields A team of Brown University physicists, including doctoral Physics student Yiou Zhang, has developed a new type of compact, ultra-sensitive magnetometer. The new device could be useful in a variety of applications involving weak magnetic fields, the researchers say. “Nearly everything around us generates a magnetic field — from our electronic devices to our beating hearts — and we can use those fields to gain information about all these systems,” said Gang Xiao, chair of the Brown Department of Physics. The new device is detailed in a paper published in Applied Physics Letters. Read more. 2020 Commencement Speakers Mira Nikolova '20 PhD and Abdullah Shihipar '20 MPH will address graduating doctoral and master's students during the Graduate School’s Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony on Sunday, May 24. Learn more about Mira and Abdullah. Leaders in Their Fields, Four Students Selected for the 2020 Joukowsky Prizes The 2020 Joukowsky Family Foundation Outstanding Dissertation Awards will be awarded to Madeline Bourque Kearin, Lu Lu, Erika Valdivieso and Hyeyoung Shin. This prize recognizes the superior research achievements of four doctoral students. The soon to be alums covered a breadth of topics from nineteenth-century asylum life and sickle cell disease research to the influence of Roman poetry in colonial Latin America poetry and neurons that act as metronomes to keep time in the brain. Read more. Master’s Students Receive Accolades for Academic, Professional and Community Service Accomplishments Lucas Baisch will receive the Master’s Award for professional excellence, Aakash Jhaveri will be recognized for his academic accomplishments, and Manuel Jiménez is honored for engaged citizenship and community service. Baisch, ’20 MFA was nominated for his incredible accomplishments as a playwright and visual artist; Jhaveri ’20 ScM for his novel research on treatments for pancreatic and other cancers; and Jiménez ’20, executive master in business administration, for his creation of two new diversity and inclusion focused workforce programs through his position at Banco Santander in Spain. Read more. Four Doctoral Students Receive Teaching Excellence Awards One of the many ways graduate students connect to the broader Brown community is through teaching. The Excellence in Teaching Award acknowledges graduate students whose passion for teaching is recognized by their peers. This year, four students, Muntazir Ali (Religious Studies), Christina Bailey-Hytholt (Biomedical Engineering), Alyssa Pascuzzo (Earth, Environmental and Planetary Science), and Les Robinson (History), will be awarded for their extraordinary devotion to teaching. Read more. Clayton and Delaney Honored for Advising and Mentoring Advising and mentoring has never been more important, as the Graduate School honors two Brown faculty for their inspiring work. Michelle Clayton, Associate Professor of Hispanic Studies and Comparative Literature and Director of Graduate Studies, and Sarah Delaney, Associate Professor of Chemistry and Director of Graduate Studies, were selected for the 2020 Graduate School Faculty Awards for Advising and Mentoring. Clayton is lauded by students for the sage advice she provides for their academic and professional endeavors. Delaney was nominated by the entire Chemistry Graduate Student Leadership Committee, as well as additional faculty, students, and alums. Read more. Duncan and Nordlund Recognized for Contributions to Graduate Education Each year the Graduate Student Council selects recipients for the Wilson-DeBlois and Bates-Clapp awards as a way to honor and thank staff members who have made outstanding contributions to graduate education at Brown. Marlina Duncan, Associate Dean of Diversity Initiatives and Assistant Vice President for Academic Diversity, receives the Wilson-DeBlois award. Carrie Nordlund, Associate Director of the Master of Public Affairs Program at the Watson Institute receives the Bates-Clapp award. Read more. Student Research: Arctic ‘shorefast' sea ice threatened by climate change, study finds For people who live in the Arctic, sea ice that forms along shorelines is a vital resource that connects isolated communities and provides access to hunting and fishing grounds. A new study by Brown University researchers, including doctoral candidate Sarah Cooley, found that climate change could significantly reduce this “shorefast ice” in communities across Northern Canada and Western Greenland. Read more. Conversations on COVID: How to persuade loved ones to stay at home Rob Grace, a Ph.D. student in Political Science, drew from his research on humanitarian negotiation to offer advice on how to convince skeptical friends and family to protect themselves from COVID-19 via social distancing. Read more. « first ‹ previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants