Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Community Learning Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula Public Lectures and Events Prozdor Teen Learning Community Learning JTS’s community learning programs extend our sophisticated scholarship and meaningful insights into Torah beyond the classroom to Jewish learners around the world. Our online and in-person programs are highly varied and flexible, allowing Jewish leaders across North America to bring customized JTS learning to their communities, while offering regular opportunities to join us for educational programs on our New York campus. Our rich trove of online resources provides 24/7 access to Jewish learning for anyone who seeks it. And our programs for high school students give teens a chance to learn with top scholars about the relevance of Jewish texts to their lives as global citizens today. Online Live Online Classes Learn in real time with JTS’s outstanding faculty alongside your fellow community members. We invite organizational leaders to work with us in developing customized online learning programs that suit your group’s interests and needs. Learn More JTS Torah Online JTS Torah Online is an invaluable resource for Jewish educational content, produced and curated by JTS scholars and teachers, with new content added every week. Access Torah commentaries, video recordings of major public programs, holiday resources, and more. Learn More At JTS Adult Learning on Campus Community courses give adult learners the opportunity to come to campus to explore topics like Jewish history, philosophy, arts, and literature with our world-renowned faculty. Learn More Learning Events Public Lectures and Events JTS’s public lectures and events articulate a vision of what Judaism in North America is and might become. Learn More For 8th-12th Graders Prozdor Teen Learning Prozdor is JTS’s innovative program in Judaic and Hebrew studies for students in grades eight through twelve attending public or private school in the New York area. Meeting on Sundays, Prozdor offers Hebrew language, traditional beit midrash learning, and experiential programming. Learn More Beyond the Campus Courses and Curricula JTS comes to Jewish communities across North America with prepared courses and learning content that rabbis and educators can flexibly incorporate into existing adult education frameworks, without needing in-person JTS faculty facilitation. Learn More JTS Learning in Your Community Through a wide range of program models, JTS brings our outstanding faculty and fellows to communities across the continent for highly customized programs, including intensive days of study, single lectures and lecture series, weekend Shabbatonim, and more. We will work with you to design a program with the format and content that fit your community’s interests and needs. Learn More SHARE THIS PAGE Keep me posted about events and classes for the public We’ll let you know about lectures and courses on campus, online learning opportunities, and events throughout North America. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message