Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Anthropology About Undergraduate Graduate People Our Work Resources News & Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Resources Current Students Future Students Take Action Undergraduates Join the Graduate Program Support the Department Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home Department of Anthropology Graduate Majors Prospective Graduate Students Prospective Students Welcome and thank you for your interest in Anthropology at the University of Memphis! The Department of Anthropology offers one of the nation's leading M.A. programs in applied anthropology. Graduate students in our program receive training in core areas of theory, research methods, data analysis and application. With award-winning faculty and significant funding and research opportunities, our department focuses on training students to apply the theoretical and methodological foundations of practicing and applying engaged and collaborative anthropology. Our students successfully pursue careers in government, nonprofit, and private sectors in healthcare, community development, health administration, cultural heritage preservation, and environmental management. Our program also prepares students to move on to doctoral study in anthropology and other fields. Submission deadlines Fall Semester: Deadline: April 1 Applications submitted by January 31st will receive greater consideration for funding. Applications after the deadline will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Spring Semester: November 1 Graduate School Application Requirements: GRE Test Scores Test score requirements will be waived through Fall 2021 applications. In lieu of test scores, the department will conduct a holistic review of other application materials. Transcripts from previous schools and universities Additional requirements for international students Visit the Graduate School Webpage for more information on how to start an application. Department of Anthropology Application Requirements: Department Application Three letters of recommendation (at least 2 of 3 must be from academic references) Letter of intent Writing sample (5 pages minimum). Recommended for all, required if seeking a Graduate Assistantship. All documents should be uploaded to the online application system. Prospective Student Resources Anthropology Program Requirements and Course Descriptions Anthropology Department Master's Practicum Anthropology Department Comprehensive Written and Oral Exams Anthropology Department Graduate Student Handbook (Updated 2020) Anthropology Department Learning Goals and Objectives The Graduate School The Graduate School Application Checklist Financial Aid Department Hints for Finding a Graduate Assistantship Mailing Addresses Graduate School Office of Graduate Admissions 201 FedEx Institute of Technology The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678-3685 Fax: 901678.5023 Department of Anthropology Dr. Ted Maclin, Graduate Coordinator Department of Anthropology 302B Manning Hall The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.3936 Fax: 901.678.2069 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/16/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.