Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Division of Research and Innovation About Vision, Mission, & Values Researchers Business & Partners News Facilities Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Innovation For Business For Partners Tech Transfer FedEx Institute of Technology UMRF Research Park Take Action For Researchers For Business Strategic Goals & Tactical Plan Contact Us @UofMemphis FacebooktwitterLinkedn Home Division of Research and Innovation Innovation Office of Technology Transfer As Peter Drucker once said, "The best way to predict the future is to create it." In Memphis, there is deep-rooted passion for creation. That's why commercialization and patents are a big component of what we offer at the Division of Research and Innovation. We license valuable intellectual property to local companies, allowing them an exclusive opportunity to bring their technologies to the marketplace and change the world. Since opening in 2008, the OTT office has grown to include 170 invention disclosures, 35 issued U.S. patents, 8 copyrights and 15 licenses to industry. Additionally, 156 U.S. provisional, utility and foreign patent applications have been filed. For Researchers: We invest in and protect promising innovations and huge breakthroughs by University researchers. We want to hear about your invention and help drive success on your project. To get started, contact Hai Trieu at hhtrieu@memphis.edu or 901.678.1712. Or download and fill out our invention disclosure here. FAQs For Researchers For Industry: We license valuable intellectual property (patented and copyrighted inventions) to local and national companies. Reach out to us by contacting Hai Trieu at hhtrieu@memphis.edu 901.678.1712. Or browse our technologies available for licensing. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.