Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home About University Policies University Policies Reservation of University Rights These policies are intended for the guidance of persons applying for or considering application for admission to Columbia University and for the guidance of Columbia students and faculty. The policies set forth generally the manner in which the University intends to proceed with respect to the matters set forth herein, but the University reserves the right to depart without notice from the terms of these policies. These policies are not intended to be and should not be regarded as a contract between the University and any student or other person. Expand all Collapse all Essential Policies for the Columbia Community Valuable information to help students, faculty, and staff understand some of the policies and regulations of the University can now be found in Essential Policies for the Columbia Community, including information on the following: Policy on Access to Student Records under the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974, as Amended University Regulations (including Rules of University Conduct) Policies on Alcohol and Drugs Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination Policies, and Procedures on Discrimination, Discriminatory Harassment, and Sexual Harassment Gender-Based Misconduct Policies for Students Campus Safety and Security Leave of Absence Policies: Voluntary, Involuntary, and Military Student Conduct & Community Standards GS Academic Policies GS Health and Wellness Sexual Respect Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) Immunization Requirements New York State public health law requires documentation of immunization for measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) and meningococcal meningitis. New students must provide documentation of these two immunization requirements 30 days before they plan to register for classes. The Columbia Health office will place a hold on a student's account if they do not receive the required documentation from the student. Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) New York State public health law requires that all students points provide documentation of their immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) before their first term of study. There are several ways to document immunity. In all cases, the Columbia University MMR form must be completed and submitted to the Immunization Office in John Jay Hall. Please note that the MMR form requires a physician's signature. Meningococcal Meningitis Decision New York State public health law requires that students receive information from their institutions about meningococcal meningitis and the vaccine that protects against most strains of the disease that can occur on university campuses. Columbia students must make an informed decision about being vaccinated and certify their decision online. Students must formally indicate their decision about being vaccinated before they will be permitted to register for classes. Immunization Recommendations In addition, Health Services at Columbia recommends that all students be properly immunized against or have immunity to the following: hepatitis B (three-dose series), varicella (chicken pox), tetanus, diphtheria, and all routine childhood diseases. These immunizations are available at Primary Care Medical Services. Students who have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee are eligible to receive several vaccinations free of charge. Vaccinations are also available for a minimal cost to students who have not paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Student Policies and Procedures on Non-Discrimination, Discrimination & Harassment, Gender-Based & Sexual Misconduct, and Consensual Romantic & Sexual Relationships Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from discrimination, harassment, and gender-based and sexual misconduct. Consistent with this commitment and with applicable laws, the University does not tolerate discrimination, harassment, or gender-based or sexual misconduct in any form and it provides students who believe that they have been subjected to conduct or behavior of this kind with mechanisms for seeking redress. All members of the University community are expected to adhere to the applicable policies, to cooperate with the procedures for responding to complaints of discrimination, harassment, and gender-based and sexual misconduct, and to report conduct or behavior they believe to be in violation of these policies to the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action or the Gender-Based Misconduct Policy. For information on these policies and resources, please visit the Sexual Respect website. Complaints Against Students Gender-Based and Sexual Misconduct Complaints against students for gender-based misconduct are processed in accord with the Gender-Based Misconduct Policies for Students. Students who attend Barnard College, Teachers College, or Columbia University are covered by these policies. The use of the term "gender-based misconduct" includes sexual assault, sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, stalking, and intimate partner violence. Other Forms of Discrimination and Harassment Complaints against students for other forms of discrimination and harassment should be filed with the Dean of Students Office of the school in which the accused student is enrolled. Complaints Against Employees and Third Parties Complaints against employees and third parties affiliated with the University for discrimination and harassment are processed in accord with the Policies and Procedures on Discrimination and Harassment. The use of the term "discrimination and harassment" includes discrimination, harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking. Consensual Romantic and Sexual Relationships Columbia University maintains policies regarding consensual romantic and sexual relationships between faculty and students as well as and staff and students. The Faculty-Student Relationship Policy states that no faculty member shall have a consensual romantic or sexual relationship with a student over whom he or she exercises academic or professional authority. It is also the University’s policy that no faculty member shall exercise academic or professional authority over any student with whom he or she has or previously has had a consensual romantic or sexual relationship. The Staff-Student Relationship Policy states that no staff member at Columbia should participate in supervision, employment actions, evaluation, advising, or mentoring of any Columbia University student with whom that staff member has or has had a consensual romantic or sexual relationship, except in unusual circumstances. In the event that a personal relationship of this kind does exist in a supervisory, advisory, or mentoring context, the supervisor must disclose the relationship and initiate arrangements to address any issues of conflict of interest. Non-Discrimination Statement and Policy Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and to fostering a nurturing and vibrant community founded upon the fundamental dignity and worth of all of its members. Consistent with this commitment, and with all applicable laws, it is the policy of the University not to tolerate unlawful discrimination or harassment in any form and to provide those who feel that they are victims of discrimination with mechanisms for seeking redress. Also consistent with this commitment, Columbia University prohibits any form of discrimination against any person on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, pregnancy, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, status as a victim of domestic violence, citizenship or immigration status, creed, genetic predisposition or carrier status, unemployment status, partnership status, military status, or any other applicable legally protected status in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, employment, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other University-administered programs and functions. Nothing in this policy shall abridge academic freedom or the University's educational mission. Prohibitions against discrimination and discriminatory harassment do not extend to actions, statements or written materials that are relevant and appropriately related to course subject matter or academic debate. This policy governs the conduct of all Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that occurs on the University’s campuses or in connection with University-sponsored programs. This policy also governs conduct by Columbia University students, faculty, staff and visitors that creates, contributes to, or continues a hostile work, educational, or living environment for a member or members of the University community. Inquiries or complaints regarding any form of discrimination or harassment may be directed to: Marjory D. Fisher Title IX Coordinator Associate Vice President 202A Philosophy Hall (212) 854-1276 [email protected] Heather Parlier Associate Provost, Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Section 504 Compliance Officer 103 Low Library (212) 854-5918 [email protected] Department of Education Office for Civil Rights (New York Office) (646) 428-3800 [email protected] Confidential Resources Columbia offers a number of confidential resources to students who believe they were subjected to discrimination, harassment, or gender-based or sexual misconduct and who do not wish to report to the University: Counseling Services Morningside Campus: (212) 854-2878 CUMC: (212) 496-8491 Sexual Violence Response (SVR) & Rape Crisis/Anti-Violence Support Center Helpline: (212) 854-HELP (open 24 hours/day, 365 days/year) CUMC: (212) 305-1721 Office of the University Chaplain (212) 854-6242 Health Services* Morningside Campus: (212) 854-2284 Morningside Campus Clinician-On-Call: (212) 854-9797 CUMC: (212) 305-3400 CUMC Clinician-On-Call: (212) 305-3400 *Medical providers are considered confidential resources in the context of providing medical treatment to a patient. Responding to Harassment, Discrimination, and Gender-Based Misconduct Columbia University is committed to providing a learning, living, and working environment free from discrimination, harassment, and gender-based and sexual misconduct. Recognizing that no campus community is removed from the larger systemic issues that give rise to incidents of discrimination, the Dean of Students Office in the School of General Studies works to proactively promote awareness of, and respect for, difference. We have also worked with students and with other University stakeholders to develop a protocol for responding to acts of hate, bias, and discrimination in our community. Students who have been impacted by harassment, discrimination, or gender-based misconduct are encouraged to file a report. Reports alert the University to the incident and allow the University to investigate and respond. The following reporting channels are available. Public Safety The Office of Public Safety works to ensure the University campus and its surrounding environs are safe and secure. Students who witness, hear of, or are victim to acts of bias and hate should immediately contact Public Safety at 212-854-5555. Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards / Gender-Based Misconduct Office Students who experience or have knowledge of incidents of discrimination, harassment, or gender-based misconduct also have the option to file a report directly with the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards (SCCS), which enforces the Community Standards for University students broadly and includes the Gender-Based Misconduct Office. SCCS reviews all reports to determine whether or not a Dean’s Discipline Process is appropriate, and refers reports to other offices as appropriate. The reporter does not participate in the hearing process, but may be contacted for additional information. To file a report, visit the Student Conduct and Community Standards website and choose “Report” from the main menu. Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action The Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action (EOAA) has overall responsibility for the management of the University’s Employee Policies and Procedures on Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking. Students who experience or have knowledge of incidents of discrimination, harassment, or gender-based misconduct concerning faculty or staff at the University can file a report directly with EOAA. To file a report, visit the Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action website and choose “Report an Incident.” Additional Resources In addition to filing a report, Columbia University has available a number of confidential support resources. GS Dean of Students Office Response Team The GS Dean of Students Office Bias Response Team works to address the effects of discrimination, harassment, and/or gender-based misconduct in the GS community. This includes: Creating dedicated programs and resources to support students from underrepresented communities, focusing especially on those that have experienced institutionalized and/or historical marginalization and/or vulnerability Working with campus partners to streamline reporting processes and access to support Tracking incidents and incorporating student feedback into strategic priorities for the Dean of Students Office, and more broadly, the School of General Studies Developing community outreach and educational programming In addition to these efforts, the Bias Response Team works directly with students who have been impacted by discrimination, harassment, or gender-based misconduct on campus to provide support and guidance. Team members can also work with individual students and/or student groups upon request to facilitate conversations and support community outreach and advocacy efforts. Note: All staff in the Dean of Students Office are mandatory reporters, which includes staff members in the GS Academic Resource Center and GS Student Life. Team Members Marlyn Delva, Dean of Students Sean Trulby, Associate Dean of Student Life Amber Griffiths, Associate Dean of Student Affairs and Wellbeing Sara Remedios, Associate Dean of Students & Director of Academic and Learning Initiatives Ashley Johnson, Senior Assistant Director of Student Engagement Contact [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close