COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Dance, Minor MinorDance All Programs College of Fine Arts Dance A minor in dance from Wichita State will expose you to the basic techniques of modern dance, ballet and jazz. It's a great asset for many majors and careers—from the performing arts to education. Learn how dance is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student performance takes a collaborative approach Students pursuing a degree in dance have the opportunity to work alongside fellow fine arts students to express their creativity. In a gala concert, students from all three fine arts schools performed together to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Wiedemann Hall and the Marcussen Organ. Alongside ceramics and music students, six dancers performed "Trois Danses: Joies, Deuils and Luttes." Curriculum The 21-credit-hour dance minor includes: Basic dance technique: 9 credit hours Dance technique (further study): 6 credit hours Dance history: 3 credit hours Elective: Choose at least 3 credit hours View the curriculum Careers From local productions to Broadway, a degree in dance from Wichita State's College of Fine Arts equips students with the skills, connections and confidence for careers as performers, choreographers and educators. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Dance Anthropology Communication - Strategic Communication Exercise Science 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©