Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Apply First Year First Year First Year Dates and Deadlines Early Decision Testing Admission Requirements Class Profile International Students Homeschool Students Request Information Self-Reported Test Scores Additional applicant types Step 1: Decide which application deadline is right for you. Learn about the application deadlines here. November 1 Early Action (non-binding) Early Decision I (binding) January 15 Regular Decision (non-binding) Early Decision II (binding) Step 2: Decide which application method is right for you then complete and submit your application. The Common Application ApplyTexas The MyCoalition Application Step 3: Review and complete the application checklist. Completed application Completed Early Decision Agreement Form (if applying Early Decision) $60 nonrefundable application fee* Official high school transcript Official or self-reported SAT or ACT scores. Students who graduate abroad, as well as Music, Theatre, Dance, Studio Art, and Film-BFA applicants are not required to submit test scores. Visual and performing arts applicants can learn more here. SMU superscores the SAT and ACT. Please note that SMU has extended our Temporary Test Optional policy to cover fall 2023 and spring 2024 applicants. Learn more here. Official TOEFL, IELTS, OR Duolingo English Test (DET) results are required for students whose language of instruction is bilingual or not solely in English. Counselor recommendation (PDF) Teacher recommendation (optional) (PDF) Extracurricular résumé** Home School Supplement (if applicable) (PDF) Review audition and portfolio requirements (students applying for Art, Film (BFA), Dance, Music, or Theatre) Step 4: Submit your application materials. Please submit your application online. Supporting documents for your application (e.g. letters of recommendation, transcripts etc) should be sent from an official at your school. If you or your school counselor has any challenges submitting your application or supporting documents, they can be scanned and emailed to ugadmission@smu.edu or physically mailed to the address below. Online submission is encouraged: Email: ugadmission@smu.edu Mailing Address SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275 Please be sure all materials clearly indicate your first, middle and last name, and your date of birth. If you physically mail your documents, we recommend that you make and keep a copy of all application forms for your records. We look forward to reviewing your application and getting to know you better. If you have questions, please contact the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission, where any of our admission counselors are ready to help. Physical Address (for FedEx, UPS, and DHL shipments): Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Road Dallas, TX 75205 Phone: 214-768-2058 Fax: 214-768-1083 Office Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Central Standard Time * You may pay online at the time you submit your online application through the SMU Online Application, the National Common Application or Apply Texas. If you are going to pay by check, make the check payable to SMU to the address below. SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275 ** The SMU Admission Committee wants to learn more about your interests, hobbies, and how you spend your time. Please include the following information in your personal résumé: Extracurricular, volunteer, and summer activities. List in order of importance and indicate the amount of weekly time involved in your participation. Work experience. Include position, company/employer, dates of employment, and weekly time involved. Honors, awards, and leadership positions. List honors and awards and indicate grade level in which they were received. List leadership positions and include details on the responsibilities the position required. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search