Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Memphis Athletics Development Office Ways to Give Meet the Staff FAQs GoTigersGo.com Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Give Now M Club Tiger Scholarship Fund True Blue Society Take Action New Donors Returning Donors Support Tiger Athletics Give Now Follow Tiger Scholarship Fund Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Athletics Development Give Now M Club M Club An Elite Letter Winner Association, the M Club supports Tiger Athletics by uniting past, present and future student-athletes through service, programs and events. Membership is $50 annually and is open to anyone who has lettered in a sport at the University of Memphis. In addition, the M Club offers mentoring opportunities for current student-athletes and scholarships for former letter winners who are interested in returning to school and finishing their degrees. Membership eligibility is based on any person having lettered in a varsity sport or support activity (equipment manager or trainer) at the University of Memphis. There are three types of membership: Lettering in a varsity sport Lettering in a varsity sport and paying yearly dues which brings privileges to the individuals not available to non-dues playing members Honorary membership Honorary membership may be bestowed upon an individual who has coached, been an athletic administrator, or has had national prominence in a sport not sponsored by the Athletic Department and must be nominated and voted on by the Board of Directors. Connect With Us: 'Like' M Club on Facebook | Follow M Club on Twitter - @memphismclub Frequently Asked Questions: What is the M Club? The M Club is the athletic alumni of the University of Memphis. It was started in 1973 by several former football players with Percy Roberts (current board member) acting as the first president. Currently, the M Club currently has a database of over 2,500 members with an all-time high of about 450 active members. What is the mission of the M Club? The M Club is dedicated to establishing an elite letter-winners' association by supporting Tiger Athletics and building a lasting tradition for all letter-winners by uniting past, present, and future student-athletes through service, programs and camaraderie. How do you become a member of the M Club? As soon as any athlete letters in a sport (determined by his/her coaching staff), they are automatically a member of the M Club. There are three types of membership in the M Club, which include: Member – Lettering in a varsity sport automatically entitles membership Active member – Lettering in a varsity sport and paying yearly dues. Active membership guarantees privileges to the individuals not available to non-paying members Honorary member – May be bestowed upon an individual who has coached, has been an athletic administrator, or has had national prominence in a sport not sponsored by the Athletic Department. These persons must be nominated and voted on by the Board of Directors, receiving a majority vote with a quorum of 2/3 the active board present. Who is eligible to be a member of the M Club? Every letter winner from any of the 19 varsity sports, managers, trainers, cheerleaders, and the dance team (pom pon) are members of the M Club. What are the benefits of membership? Game Day Perks: Complimentary admission to a catered pre-game hospitality tent at all home Football games and selected Men's Basketball games. Complimentary tickets to select Football games Complimentary admission to all Olympic and Women's sports (excludes Men's and Women's Basketball) Preferred parking for home Football games Additional benefits: Preferred seating for Men's Basketball and Football season ticket holders Per-seat donation discount for Men's basketball season tickets Discounts on books and merchandise at Tiger Book Store Discounts on merchandise at Tiger Gift Shop Hall of Fame voting privileges Opportunity to purchase exclusive M Club Apparel and Merchandise Complimentary membership (2-years) for student-athletes upon completing eligibility Mentorship for current and former student-athletes Is there a governing body of the M Club? Yes, the governing body of the M Club is the volunteer Board of Directors. However, the Executive Director is a full-time employee of the University of Memphis' Athletic Department and is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the M Club. How do you become a member of the Board of Directors? Annually, prior to executive officer rotations, a nominating committee existing of the Executive Officers and Executive Director will present names of prospective board members for the board's approval. According to the current language of the M Club Constitution and Bylaws, the Board of Directors must consist of a minimum of 30 and a maximum of 35 members. If anyone is interested in becoming a board member, he/she can tell a current board member or contact the M Club Director. What are some of the other events the M Club has besides football hospitality? M Club Hall of Fame Banquet – annual celebration where the M Club inducts former letter winners and athletic supporters into its Hall of Fame Clash of the Tigers Golf Classic – annual golf tournament that is filled with fun, food and prizes - prior to first home football game M Club All-Sport Reunion – Event that will reunite all former letter winners for a weekend of camaraderie, information, food and fun! What happens to the money raised by the M Club including dues and event revenue? Currently the dues and all event revenue go to support the general athletic department budget. However, any donation to the M Club goes directly to the M Club restricted account, which can only be utilized by the M Club with approval of the board of directors. How can I become an active member of the M Club today? You can become an active M Club member by contacting the M Club Executive Director, Bob Winn at 901.678.4878 or email bwinn@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/7/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.