Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Biology Undergraduate Education Maria L. Caleel ’87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Maria L. Caleel ’87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Maria L. Caleel ’87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Caleel Fellowships are funded research opportunities for undergraduates studying in Brown’s Biology Program. Fellowships offer awardees a competitive stipend, plus additional funds for project related expenses and opportunities. Applications are open to seniors and rising seniors in any of the Program in Biology concentrations who intend to pursue a summer research experience that will become the framework for an honors thesis. Students must be mentored by a faculty member appointed in one of the academic departments in the Program in Biology: Ecology, Evolution & Organismal Biology; Molecular Biology, Cell Biology & Biochemistry; Molecular Microbiology & Immunology, Neuroscience, or Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. Maria L. Caleel graduated from Brown University in 1987. Approximately one year later, she passed tragically while studying for a career in veterinary equine medicine at the University of Illinois' College of Veterinary Medicine. She was an accomplished equestrian and was working towards becoming an equine surgeon. At that time, Maria was ranked at the top of her first-year class. Submission Site: UFunds Funding: $4,500 summer stipend $2,000 for project related expenses - (this can be used over the course of the fellowship summer through last semester) Department Summer Earnings Waiver (DSEW) awards for students who qualify Fellowship Restrictions: For 2022 - Caleel Fellowships will fund full-time commitments over at least a 10-week period during the summer between a student’s junior and senior years (Class of ‘23), or the summer prior to a December completion (Class of ‘22.5). These awards may not be combined with other funding from Brown, such as Voss Fellowships, SPRINT/UTRAs, Royce, LINK or Internship awards. Students must file an I9 with Brown HR in order to be able to receive a summer stipend. Expectations: Before the start of finals week in the last semester fellows will complete an electronic survey and request for information that includes: a copy of the final thesis and thesis presentation, any additional scholarly outputs (i.e. conference presentations, publications, etc.), photos taken during the fellowship that showcase the work in progress or at presentations, a 1 page final reflection on the value of the experience, future contact information, etc). Fellows may be contacted after graduation for long term tracking to better understand the impact of the Caleel Fellowship experience. Application Due Date: Friday March 4, 2022 @ 5pm EST Applications submitted via UFunds must include the following: A maximum two page letter written collaboratively by both the student applicant and mentor. This must be signed by both the student and mentor. From the student: What are your personal and professional goals and aspirations in the short and long term and how will this opportunity help you achieve them? From the student and mentor: A description of the question or hypothesis, approach / methods and potential implications of the planned research. Here we are looking for evidence that you will be prepared to make the most of the summer fellowship by having a feasible plan at the outset. From the student: A description of the experiences you’ve had that you believe prepared you to conduct this work. This might include courses, paid or volunteer work, or any opportunity you feel positions you for success. It can also include experiences you will have this semester that will help to prepare you for summer and your senior thesis. From the student and mentor: An agreed upon mentoring plan stating your commitment to work together in a productive and supportive mentored relationship throughout the extent of the project. Include here the length of the summer fellowship position (number of weeks) and estimated number of hours per week that you expect to work with this individual over the summer. Include how often you will meet with one another throughout the summer (i.e. weekly is recommended) and note any other individuals in the lab who might serve in a supplementary mentoring role. From the student: A list of other funding sources you’ve applied for or plan to apply for in order to finance this position. From the student and mentor: Anything more you want the committee to know that is relevant to your application. Also in Biology Undergraduate Education Site Navigation Home Concentrations Biology for First-Years Courses BIOL 0200 Replacement | AP/IB Transfer Credit Writing Requirement Research Maria L. Caleel '87 Memorial Undergraduate Biology Research Fellowship Honors Diversity and Inclusion Peer Advising Curricular Resources Senior Prizes After Brown Employment Opportunities News & Facebook Print this Page Share this Page Arnold Laboratory Brown University Box GA-124 91 Waterman St Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3133 Fax 401-863-7411 Stay Connected with Biology Undergraduate Education Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity