Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Billing & Student Accounts Eagle One Card Billing & Student Accounts Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Eagle One Card The Eagle One Card is the Official ID of Boston College, enabling community members to access facilities, residence halls, computer labs, libraries, and the Margot Connell Recreation Center. Fund an Eagle One account to be able to make purchases with your card at on-campus restaurants, vending machines, bookstores, and laundry facilities as well as at certain off-campus merchants. Apply for a Card Fees & Application Fees The initial fee for an Eagle One Card is $45 and will be automatically billed to your student account. There is no fee charged to faculty or staff. A $30 fee will be charged for each replacement card. Apply To obtain an Eagle One Card, complete the online application. Note: Those requesting an Eagle One Card will also be asked to submit a photograph suitable for identification. Lost or Stolen Card? What you need to do If your card is lost or stolen, deactivate it immediately by visiting www.bc.edu/myservices Click on "Eagle One Card Deactivate (Lost/Stolen)" This will generate a new Eagle One Card you can pick up in the Office of Student Services located in Lyons Hall. Please note that you remain responsible for card usage prior to deactivation. Need to Add Funds to Your Card? Video Tutorials Parents: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card Students: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card How to check your Eagle One Card balance Add Funds to Eagle One Card Parents Students About the Card Where it Works Declining Balance Debit Accounts Vending and Laundry Refunds FAQ About the Card The Eagle One Card is a multipurpose identification and debit account card which serves as the official ID card of Boston College. It will be accepted and function at most University-run facilities throughout your stay at Boston College. Students must keep this card available at all times in order to obtain access to residence halls, computer labs, libraries and the Connell Recreation Center. Boston College identification cards are the property of the University and must be presented to authorized University officials upon request. Failure to comply with this can result in judicial action. Please keep in mind that falsifying, altering or misusing your own or anyone else's Eagle One Card in any way is strictly prohibited and illegal. Obtaining an ID All University students, staff and faculty (and their spouses, if desired) are issued Eagle One Cards through the Office of Student Services. Proof of identification such as a driver's license or passport must be presented in order to be issued an Eagle One Card. Updating Directory Photo Individuals who wish to update their directory photo may do so by going to the online application and choosing the radio button, "Update Directory Photo." The user will then upload the new photo and select the "Request" button. Once requested, the new photo may take up to three business days to appear across all platforms. Card Fees The initial fee for an Eagle One Card is $45 and will be automatically billed to your student account. There is no fee charged to faculty or staff. A $30 fee will be charged for each replacement card. Where it Works On-Campus Dining The Loft @ Addie's Hillside Cafe Lower Live in Corcoran Commons The Bean Counter in Fulton Hall The Chocolate Bar in Stokes Hall Carney's in McElroy The Eagle's Nest in McElroy Faculty Dining Room in McElroy CoRo Cafe in McElroy Welch Dining Room in Lyons Hall Stuart Hall on Newton Campus Legal Grounds in Stuart Hall Cafe 129 on Brighton Campus The Market @ Corcoran Pop-Up Culinary Events GET Mobile ordering CSA Farm Share Farmers Market On-Campus Vending Machines Drink and snack vending machines are located in most lounges around campus. Many machines have been equipped with card readers that will accept Eagle Bucks as well as cash transactions. BC Athletics Concessions Eagle One cards are accepted at all Boston College athletic events held at Conte Forum and Alumni Stadium. BC Services & Facilities BC Bookstores All 3 BC Bookstore locations (McElroy Commons, Newton Campus, and Hillside) now accept Eagle Bucks as a valid form of payment for anything from textbooks to BC clothing. McElroy Commons Stuart House Campanella Way 1-800-978-0978 (Orders & Support) Robsham Theater The RTAC Box Office sells tickets for both students and the general public through the Boston College online ticketing system and the RTAC Box Office ticket window. Tickets can be purchased online via credit card and the RTAC Box Office ticket window also accepts cash, checks, or Eagle Bucks. For ticketing inquiries, email rtactickets@bc.edu. Eagle Print Services Eagle Print Services is on-campus to meet all of your personal and professional printing needs. Use your Eagle Bucks for printing black & white and color copies, digital photos, large format color posters, invitations, resumes, presentations and much more. Open Monday through Friday, 8:30am - 5pm. Carney Hall Room 202 617-552-3418 Residence Hall Laundry Facilities Card readers have been installed on all residence hall washers and dryers. Laundry machines will accept either cash or Eagle Bucks. 1-800-622-4729 Network Printing Students can print 500 pages per semester for free. If you print over 500 pages, you will be charged 3 cents per page to your Eagle Bucks account. Recreational Complex Memberships, Day Pass and Programs are available at the Connell Recreation Center by presenting an Eagle One ID. Purchases may be made by charging services or items to your Eagle Bucks, check or credit card. For additional information and fees, please contact Member Services. BC Libraries When taking out library books or borrowing electronic equipment, students use their BC identification cards. Additionally, Eagle Bucks can be used at the copy machines and printers. Off-Campus Food & Convenience Flatbreads Cafe Flatbreads Cafe serves gourmet rolled sandwiches, salads, and homemade pasta and pizza. Conveniently located next to the BC T station on Commonwealth Avenue. 11 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill 617-964-8484 Richdale Food Shops Richdale Food Shops is located in the shopping plaza across from St. Ignatius Church and offers everything from microwave popcorn to greeting cards. 2195 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston 617-782-2771 Declining Balance Debit Accounts Opening an Eagle-One account will turn your Eagle-One Card into a debit card that operates on a declining balance system. The cost of each purchase you make is deducted from your balance by computerized card readers in every location the Eagle-One Card is accepted. Account Cost (2019-2020) Where it's accepted How to add funds Residential Meal Plan $2,588 per semester Required of all first-year students •On-campus restaurants Students may supplement plan by purchasing Maroon Upgrade, Gold Upgrade, or Eagle Bucks. Residential Dining Bucks $175 per semester Required of all first-year students •On-campus restaurants •Vending machines •Concessions •GET Mobile ordering Students may supplement plan by purchasing Maroon Upgrade, Gold Upgrade, or Eagle Bucks. Flex Dining Plan Purchase $20-299 no bonus dollars Purchase $300-receive $15 bonus dollars Purchase $800-receive $80 bonus dollars Purchase $1,200- receive $180 bonus dollars •On-campus restaurants •Concessions •Vending •GET Mobile ordering The Flex Dining Plan is designed to meet the needs of all students living in apartment-style residence halls with kitchens and off-campus housing. Students can enroll in Flex Dining and have the cost of the plan added to their student account between June 14–July 12 for 2019-2020 academic year. Students may enroll and charge the cost of the plan to a credit card at any time. Faculty/Staff Flex Dining Plans Purchase $20-60 no bonus dollars Purchase $75-receive $5 bonus dollars Purchase $200-receive $20 bonus dollars Purchase $325-receive $50 bonus dollars •On-campus restaurants •GET Mobile ordering •Vending machines Deposits are made online through the Agora portal by charging a credit card or bank account. Eagle Bucks $20 minimum deposit •On-campus restaurants •Vending machines •BC Bookstores •Residential laundry facilities •Network printing •Library Photocopying •Off-campus restaurants •Convenience stores •Robsham Theater box office Deposits are made online through the Agora portal by charging a credit card, bank account or Student Account. (You may only charge up to a $100 balance on your student account.) Vending & Laundry Refunds All vending and laundry refunds (cash, credit card, and Eagle Bucks) are processed directly through our partnering vendors. If you would like to initiate a refund for a beverage vending transaction, please contact Coca-Cola Services directly by calling 1-844-944-0725. You will need to reference the outlet number on the front of the machine. If you would like to initiate a refund for a snack vending transaction, please contact A&B Snack Services directly by emailing service@abvending.com. You will need to reference the outlet number on the front of the machine. If you would like to initiate a refund for a laundry transaction (cash or Eagle Bucks), please contact MacGray Laundry Services directly using this form. FAQ Print Open All Close All When do I obtain an Eagle-One Card card? All University students, staff and faculty are issued Eagle One Cards through the Office of Student Services in Lyons Hall. New students have their Eagle One Card made during orientation. Once you are officially enrolled and financially cleared, your Eagle One Card is ready to use. How do I purchase the Residential Dining Program? All first-year students and anyone living in a residence hall that does not have individual cooking facilities will be automatically billed for the Residential Dining Program. Electronically sign the 'Office of Residential Life-Residency Agreement' as directed in the summer. Your Residential Dining Program will be active on your BC ID upon University registration approval. If you are not living in a residence hall that requires participation in the Residential Dining Program and would still like to purchase it rather than an optional account, please visit the Office of Student Services and they will charge the cost of the plan to your student account. Can I cancel my Residential Dining Program contract? Only if you are withdrawing from school or have been given a housing reassignment to a residence hall that does not require the plan. A rebate schedule with specific guidelines can be at www.bc.edu/refund. How do I open an optional Eagle-One account? Online! All students with a valid Eagle One Card (BC ID) have the ability to purchase a Flex Plan or Eagle Bucks online. This includes graduate and law students, undergraduate students, and BC employees (Dining Dollars and Eagle Bucks). Once you've activated your Agora account you can make deposits anytime during the year, check your balance, and view your transaction history. How can I or my parents add money to my optional accounts? As a student, you can make deposits online through your Agora Portal account. Your parents can also make deposits online, but will need your Eagle ID number and month and day of birth before proceeding. The University accepts e-checks (electronic withdrawal from your checking or savings account), Visa, or MasterCard. You may also charge up to $100 against your student account assuming that your account is paid in full. The University does not accept cash or checks for optional account deposits. All transactions must be done online. Video Tutorials Parents: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card Students: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card How to check your Eagle One Card balance How can I see transactions on my card? To view your transaction history log into your Agora Portal account and select "Eagle One Card Activity Summary." Video Tutorials Parents: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card Students: How to add funds to the Eagle One Card How to check your Eagle One Card balance Can I make a cash withdrawal from my Eagle-One Card? No, your Eagle One Card is not an ATM card. You do not have the ability to withdraw cash from it. Review information on student account refunds. What happens to money left in my optional accounts at the end of the year? At the end of the academic year, any remaining balance will be rolled over to the next academic year. Upon graduation a 100% credit on any balance over $5 will be applied to your student account. Employees may request a refund at any time during the year. What should I do if I run out of Residential Dining funds before the semester/year ends? You do not have the option to add additional funds to a Residential Dining Plan. However, you may supplement the plan by purchasing a Maroon Upgrade, Gold Upgrade, or Flex Dining Plan, which may be done at any time during the year. Upgrades, Flex Dollars, and Eagle Bucks deposits can only be made electronically through portal.bc.edu. What are the differences between Flex Dollars and Eagle Bucks? Flex Dollars are only accepted at on-campus locations. Opening an Eagle Bucks account increases your spending flexibility by allowing purchases at BC bookstores, residence hall laundry facilities and at a variety of off-campus retail and service locations. There are no discounts associated with Eagle Bucks. What if I lose, misplace or damage my ID card? If your card is lost or stolen, deactivate it immediately by visiting www.bc.edu/myservices Click on "Eagle One Card Deactivate (Lost/Stolen) This will generate a new Eagle One Card you can pick up in the Office of Student Services located in Lyons Hall. Please note that you remain responsible for card usage prior to deactivation. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College