Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs M.Eng. Program in Geological Sciences Courses Student Opportunities Research DEI Initiatives People Faculty & Research Staff Field Faculty Graduate Students Administrative Staff Advisory Council Academic Leadership Facilities Centers, Labs, and Institutes Geochemistry Facilities Heasley Museum Rock Park Snee Hall Alumni Give to EAS Get Involved EAS Magazine Resources Mental Health Support EAS Graduate Virtual Open House Experience and Employment Undergraduate Student Activities Academic Support Graduate Student Activities Open the search panel Menu Search Close B.A./B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences The earth sciences have never been more critical to society than they are today. Why major in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences This degree will prepare students to tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our time. Global warming, dwindling energy resources, inadequate water supplies, political strife over strategic minerals, and mega-disasters threatened by volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunami, and hurricanes: these are but a few of the headlines that appear with increasing frequency. The EAS program features small classes and a high ratio of faculty to students, yet its location within Cornell allows students to choose among a rich variety of elective courses and extracurricular activities. In addition, the gorgeous landscape of Upstate New York and the Cornell campus provides an incredible real-life laboratory to study the environment. Unique Approach The program is unique in that it incorporates fundamentals of earth science with the emergence of a new and more complete approach, encompassing all components of the earth system—air, life, rock, and water—to gain a comprehensive understanding of the world as we know it. Students may choose to focus on one of a number of disciplinary specialties such as geophysics or tectonics, or develop the broad expertise needed to understand the interactions between the diverse elements of earth and life in the past, present, and future. Where a degree in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences takes you Earth and atmospheric sciences graduates will be able to seek careers dealing with energy, mineral and water resources, natural hazards, weather and climate forecasting, ocean resources, and a host of environmental issues through employment in academia, government and the private sector. The major also prepares students for careers in environmental management and policy, law or medicine, science journalism and K-12 science education. For further information about this major, contact the Director of Undergraduate Studies, Professor Bruce Monger, or Sierra Henry (slh297@cornell.edu). Ready to declare the major? Visit Sierra in 2102 Snee Hall! Navigation Heading for Screen Readers Programs Undergraduate Programs B.A./B.S. in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences EAS Major Requirements Climate Science Concentration Climate Science Course Requirements Environmental Science Concentration Environmental Science Course Requirements Geological Science Concentration Geological Science Course Requirements Ocean Science Concentration Ocean Science Course Requirements Concentrations Climate Science Concentration Explore Subtopics Climate Science Course Requirements Environmental Science Concentration Explore Subtopics Environmental Science Course Requirements Geological Science Concentration Explore Subtopics Geological Science Course Requirements Ocean Science Concentration Explore Subtopics Ocean Science Course Requirements About Us News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Contact Us Intranet EAS Admissions: 607 255-3474 DEPT Address: 112 Hollister Drive Ithaca, NY 14853-1504 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Youtube Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance