Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News News News Homepage Menuexpand child menu Skip to content Featured News Student Stories HPH Magazine Press Releases In the News Multimedia Newsletters Office of Communications 5/28Graduates from 2020 and 2021 welcomed back for in-person Convocation 5/27A day of reconnecting and learning 5/25The power of global partnerships in public health 5/24Probing disease disparities 5/19Student’s journey to U.S. to save daughter sparks a career in public health More featured stories The COVID-19 Update Our researchers are on the front lines of the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sign up here to receive our weekly newsletter highlighting their efforts. Sign up for our other newsletters, including Update, Nutrition Source, and Climate Optimist. Press Releases 4/7Cancer FactFinder website launched to provide fact-based, reliable information about causes of cancer 3/9Obesity alters molecular architecture of liver cells; repairing structure reverses metabolic disease 2/18Political affiliation may have swayed prescribing of ineffective COVID drugs More press releases Student Stories A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment More student stories Popular Stories Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges ‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree In the News 5/26The latest on the coronavirus 5/28Why there’s so much gun violence in the U.S.—and what to do about it 5/27Machine learning tool can predict which COVID variants will cause case surges 5/26‘Ebola hunter’ Jean-Jacques Muyembe receives Harvard honorary degree 5/26Better data needed around deaths in police custody More In the news Multimedia We’re better off when we unstick the stereotypes around eating disorders We’re better off when we age with resilience We’re better off with health equity We’re better off when we stop pandemics before they start More multimedia Magazine Read the latest issue Browse the magazine archives Global Impact Learn more about research by topic and region Connect Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan School News on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College