Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Counseling Psychology MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Counseling Psychology MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Counseling Psychology MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Counseling Psychology MEd Prepare for a career in a variety of settings as mental health counselors or certified school counselors with Temple University’s Master of Education (MEd) in Counseling Psychology, and acquire the assessment and therapeutic skills necessary to work with diverse populations. Learn to facilitate healthy personal and interpersonal relationships across the lifespan, working with couples, families, groups and individuals. This master’s degree equips students with the tools needed to become multiculturally competent counselors in diverse settings. Skills in multicultural competence and cultural awareness are woven into every course. The Counseling Psychology MEd at Temple was also one of the first programs in the country to require students to take a multicultural counseling course in order to graduate. Small classes foster direct, collaborative relationships with instructors and classmates. Clinical courses in particular are limited to 15 students. The Counseling Psychology MEd provides ample opportunities for intensive, hands-on training, culminating in a semester practicum experience and a year-long internship experience. Experiential components are also integrated into most courses. In addition, the program strongly believes that in order to be an effective counselor it is necessary for students to know themselves—that is, to understand their own strengths and areas for potential growth. Because counseling is an interpersonal process with considerable influence and power, the program evaluates each student continuously for their development of mature, ethical and professional behavior. Concentrations You must choose one of the following concentrations. Mental Health Counseling Deepen your understanding of mental health in a wide range of settings in the community, and position yourself to become a Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Develop the assessment, therapeutic and interpersonal relationship-building skills needed for a successful career in counseling psychology. School Counseling Gain the expertise needed to practice as a school counselor and work directly with students, teachers, administrators and parents in both elementary and secondary schools. Prepare for PreK–12th grade school counselor certification in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Didactic learning and practical, field-based training provide a firm understanding of the American School Counseling Association (ASCA) National Model and hands-on experience in preparation for a professional career. Classes & Curriculum Choose to complete the MEd on a full-time or part-time basis. Studying full time, students generally complete the program in two years, while studying part time they usually finish in three years. The clinical training component of the Counseling Psychology MEd follows a unique progression. Students begin with counseling psychology experiential “labs” in their first year, progress to practicum experiences in the spring semester during their first year, and then move into an internship during their second year (or third year for part-time students). Learn more about the internship components of the curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees School Psychology EdS School Psychology PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Diana Wildermuth, associate professor of practice, is faculty coordinator of the Counseling Psychology MEd. Phone: 215-204-1586 Email: diana.wildermuth@temple.edu Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Certification The School Counseling concentration is approved as a school counselor certification program by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-CPSY-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Counseling Psychology MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info