Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF PHARMACY DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY PHARMACY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 PHRMCY 501 Foundations of Being a Pharmacist I (3) First course of a two-quarter series providing a foundation in the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to be an effective patient-centered pharmacist provider. Content is designed to facilitate the development of a student's professional identity and leadership abilities. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 501 PHRMCY 502 Foundations of Being a Pharmacist II: Teams and Systems (3) Second course of a two-quarter series providing a foundation in the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to be an effective patient-centered pharmacist provider. Content is designed to facilitate the development of a student's professional identity and leadership abilities. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 501. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 502 PHRMCY 503 Advanced Pharmacy Leadership (1) Provides a foundation in the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to be effective in creating and achieving shared goals through personal and professional leadership. Prerequisite: either PHRMCY 501 and PHRMCY 502, or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 503 PHRMCY 511 Introduction to Evidence-Based Practice (2) Introduces primary, secondary, and tertiary medical literature. Practiced skills include forming an answerable question, retrieving and summarizing credible biomedical literature, interpreting study results, and writing effectively for the public and for health professionals. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 511 PHRMCY 512 Fundamentals of US Health Care, Pharmacy Safety and Law (3) Introduction to health care and pharmacy practice designed for future healthcare practitioners. Examines the organization and financing of the U.S. healthcare system, patient safety, and pharmacy law. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 512 PHRMCY 513 Applied Patient Safety and Quality (2) Introduction to principles of patient safety and quality designed for future health care practitioners. Content is designed to facilitate the development of a student's ability to provide safe and quality care. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 511 and PHRMCY 512. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 513 PHRMCY 514 Design and Analysis of Medical Studies (2) Provides basic understanding of the fundamental concepts of biostatistics and epidemiology as they relate to study designs and evaluation of the medical literature. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 511; recommended: undergraduate course in statistics. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 514 PHRMCY 515 Population Health and Pharmacy Management (3) Examines the concept of population health and the pharmacist's role therein as well as pharmacy management for future healthcare practitioners. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 515 PHRMCY 516 Pharmacy Law and Ethics (2) Provides a review of current Washington State and Federal pharmacy law in preparation for Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences and the Multistate Pharmacy Jurisprudence Exam. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 513. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 516 PHRMCY 531 Pharmacotherapeutics I (4) First course in a 7-course series providing a foundation in knowledge for patient-centered clinical case management. Includes introduction to pharmacotherapeutics and special populations, over-the-counter medications and self-care. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 531 PHRMCY 532 Pharmacotherapeutics II (3) Second course in a 7-course series providing a foundation in knowledge for patient-centered clinical case management. Includes assessment and management of drug-related hypersensitivity and various bacterial, fungal, and viral infectious diseases. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 531. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 532 PHRMCY 533 Pharmacotherapeutics III (4) Third course in a 7-course series providing a foundation in knowledge for patient-centered clinical case management. Includes assessment and pharmacotherapeutic management of diseases affecting the cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, and endocrine systems. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 532. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 533 PHRMCY 534 Pharmacotherapeutics IV (4) Fourth in a seven-course series. Patient-centered clinical case management. Includes assessment and pharmacotherapeutic management of diseases associated with hematological, neurological, psychiatric, and gastrointestinal systems. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 533. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 534 PHRMCY 535 Pharmacotherapeutics V (3) Patient-centered clinical case management. Assessment and pharmacotherapeutic management of diseases associated with the hematological, gastrointestinal, and immune systems, as well as pharmacotherapeutics associated with cancer therapy, transplantation, and biological therapies. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 534. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 535 PHRMCY 536 Pharmacotherapeutics VI (4) Provides a foundation in knowledge for patient-centered clinical case management. Includes assessment and pharmacotherapeutic management of issues related to gender-related health and care, reproductive health, geriatrics, rheumatological diseases, and diseases affecting the urological, dermatological and ophthalmic systems. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 535. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 536 PHRMCY 537 Pharmacotherapeutics VII (4) Provides a foundation in knowledge for patient-centered clinical case management. Covers pharmacotherapeutics in special patient populations, including children, critically ill patients, obese patients, patients requiring nutrition support, and those with multiple comorbidities. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 536. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 537 PHRMCY 541 Pharmacist Provider Readiness I (2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Includes development and refinement of skills necessary for being successful in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Prerequisite: successful completion of on-boarding and compliance requirements for PharmD program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 541 PHRMCY 542 Pharmacist Provider Readiness II (2) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Includes development and refinement of skills necessary for being successful in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Prerequisite: PHRMPR 511 and PHRMCY 541. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 542 PHRMCY 543 Introductory Pharmacist Provider Readiness III (3) Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Includes development and refinement of skills necessary for being successful in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Prerequisite: PHRMCY 542 and PHRMPR 512. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 543 PHRMCY 544 Pharmacist Provider Readiness IV (3) Delivery of care to patients with increasingly complex health care needs. Prepares students for practice as a pharmacist provider. Includes development and refinement of skills necessary for success in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Prerequisite: PHRMCY 543 and PHRMPR 513. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 544 PHRMCY 545 Pharmacist Provider Readiness V (3) Development and refinement of skills necessary for success in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Emphasizes delivery of care to multiple patients with increasingly complex health care needs. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 544 and PHRMPR 514. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 545 PHRMCY 546 Pharmacist Provider Readiness VI (3) Development and refinement of skills necessary for success in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs). Emphasizes delivery of care to multiple patients with increasingly complex healthcare needs. Prerequisite: PHRMCY 545 and PHRMPR 515. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 546 PHRMCY 547 Pharmacist Provider Readiness VII (3) Development and refinement of skills necessary for success in the Pharmacist Provider Experience course series; and Introductory Pharmacy Practice Experiences (IPPEs); and Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences (APPEs). Prerequisite: PHRMCY 546 and PHRMPR 516. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 547 PHRMCY 550 Readiness for Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences (5) Capstone course preparing students for transition to Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences (APPE). Involves applying and integrating skills acquired from both the didactic courses and experiential training. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 550 PHRMCY 551 Case Conferences and Continuous Professional Development ([0/1]-, max. 1) Includes conferences and class meetings. Taken concurrently with Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences rotations during the fourth professional year. Prerequisite: fourth year professional PharmD student; completion of all pre-Advanced Pharmacy Practice Experiences requirements. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 551 PHRMCY 580 Current Trends in Pharmacy Science and Practice (1, max. 2) Current topic areas pertinent to professional pharmacy practice. Emphasizes use of applied knowledge in pharmaceutical sciences for professional development in critical thinking, data analysis, and in-depth expertise in pharmacy-related research sciences and practice areas. Prerequisite: open to undergraduates with permission of instructor; recommended: general undergraduate science background. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: PHRMCY 580 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022