Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityGraduate School Graduate School Graduate Programs Master's, Doctoral and Certificate programs Explore over 70 certificate, master's and doctoral programs offered through the Graduate School at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Business and Management Communication and Social Sciences Computer Science, Math & Statistics Counseling & Psychology Data Science & Analytics Dentistry Educational Policy and Leadership START MY APPLICATION Engineering Health Sciences Humanities Law School Natural Sciences Nursing Customize Your Ph.D. View All Programs Additional Programs Online Programs Accelerated Degrees Continuing Education (non-degree) Getting Started Application Instructions Graduate Forms Application Deadlines Future Students Researching Graduate School? We are honored you are considering us. Marquette is routinely listed among the country's top universities, renowned for academic rigor, innovation and the achievements of its community of scholars. Why Choose Marquette? Request Program Information Schedule a Campus Visit Student Success Stories Newly Admitted? Let's Get Started. Current Students Helpful Resources for Current Students Newly Admitted Students New Student Information New Student Orientation More Admitted Student resources Academic Center for Teaching and Learning Disability Services More Academic resources Additional Student Resources Diversity and Inclusion Financial Aid Guidelines and Policies Professional Development Thesis and Dissertation Student Life and Wellness Frequently Visited Academic calendar CheckMarq D2L e-learning eMarq email Graduation Marquette Central MARQCAT library catalog Financial Aid Funding Your Education Loans & Aid Federal and Alternative Loans Merit-Based Aid Assistantships Fellowships Schmitt Fellowship Leadership Additional Resources Graduate Assistant Stipends Graduate School Tuition Financial Aid Forms Payment Plan Options Student Research Travel Awards Office of Student Financial Aid Current Students Student Travel Awards Faculty Resources Tuition Credit Policy Contact How Can We Help? Request Program Information Contact the Graduate School Schedule a Campus Visit Graduate School Staff FAQ Support Graduate Research Give to the Graduate School Marquette.edu // Graduate School // Explore our certificate, master's and doctoral graduate programs Discover the 70+ graduate programs at Marquette. Our certificate, master's and doctoral programs offer opportunities and possibilities on our convenient campus that sits within the urban backdrop of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Why Choose Marquette? 3,000+ Grad/Professional Students 53% Women | 47% Men 69% Full-Time | 31% Part-Time Students come from 47 states and 32 countries Learn more about Marquette's Mission, Campus and Milwaukee REQUEST MORE INFO BOOK A TOUR START APPLICATION Certificate, Master's and Doctoral Programs View simple list with application deadlines Filter by degree Any Ph.D. Certificate Master's Accelerated Online Filter by department Any Business Communication, Education & Social Sciences Computer Science, Math & Statistics Counseling & Psychology Data Science & Analytics Engineering Health Sciences Humanities Interdisciplinary Natural Sciences Nursing Accounting Analytics Prepare to work with the wealth of available financial data to inform and guide business decisions. M.S., Accelerated Degree Accounting Gain the technical expertise to become a Certified Public Accountant and experiences to obtain a position with a professional services firm or well-recognized corporation. M.S. Applied Behavior Analysis, Psychology Receive exemplary training in both research and practice with a focus on serving individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. M.S., PhD Applied Economics For those seeking careers as economic, market or financial analysts in industry, government, or the financial sector. M.S., Accelerated Degree Applied Statistics Develop strong data analytics skills that can be applied in a variety of fields. Full and part-time options available. M.S., Accelerated Degree Athletic Training Become a hands-on health care practitioner at the sidelines, keeping athletes in and on top of their game. M.A.T., Accelerated Degree Bioinformatics This graduate program is offered jointly with the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) for an improved, more convenient curriculum. M.S. Biological Sciences Select a multi-disciplinary research area including cell and molecular biology, developmental biology and genetics, microbiology, ecology and evolutionary biology and more. Ph.D. Business and Managerial Analytics Designed for working professionals and managers wanting to understand how to leverage their organization’s data and to utilize it in business decision making and risk reduction. School of Management, Certificate Chemistry Offers a a broad spectrum of fields including analytical, biochemistry, inorganic, organic, polymer, and physical chemistry as well as chemical physics. M.S., Ph.D. Christian Doctrine Deepen your knowledge of the Christian Doctrine through this flexible, online program. Part-time learning options available. Specialization, Online Clinical Mental Health Counseling Specialize in Addictions Counseling, Child/Adolescent Counseling or Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling. M.S., On Campus M.S., Online Clinical Psychology Study scientific areas of psychology, research methods and professional practice skills including assessment, psychotherapy, consultation and supervision. This program is accredited by the APA. Ph.D. Communication Master your skills in the Communication field, working closely with faculty members who are leaders in their respective fields. M.A., Accelerated Degree Computational Mathematical and Statistical Sciences This program’s core courses provide a distinctive blend of theoretical and computational skills which form a basis for advanced data science research. M.S., Ph.D. Computer Science Prepare for successful careers in research, industry, research laboratories, and institutions of higher education. Ph.D. Computing Information Assurance & Cyber Defense and Big Data & Analytics feature course work related to trends in data management and data analysis techniques. M.S., On Campus M.S., Online Accelerated Degree Corporate Communications A unique interdisciplinary program that combines public relations fundamentals and communication theory with an advanced business education, preparing professionals for executive-level roles. M.A., Online or Blend On-Campus Counseling Psychology Our PhD program is based on a scientist-practitioner model for training professional psychologists and is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA) Ph.D. Criminal Justice Data Analytics An interdisciplinary program combining Criminology and Data Science. Be the difference in the Criminal Justice system, where data is critical for decision making. M.S., Accelerated Degree Customize Your Ph.D. Marquette offers an interdisciplinary Ph.D. which allows the student to work with faculty from multiple departments to develop their own unique program. Ph.D. Data Science Learn theory-based and hands-on data analytics that prepares you to tackle today’s problems in the ever-growing data driven world. Specialize in Big Data and Machine Learning or choose the research-based thesis option. M.S., Accelerated Degree Data Science Designed to connect data analytics and data science skills in an ethically centered manner and knowledge with the needs evident in a host of fields. Program is offered online or on-campus. Certificate Dentistry Programs View all M.S. and certificate programs including dental biomaterials, endodontics, orthodontics, periodontics, prosthodontics and certificate in advanced education in general dentistry. M.S., Certificate Educational Policy and Leadership Prepare graduate students for exceptional educational leadership roles in the areas of study through distinct specializations. Certificate, M.A., M.Ed., Ph.D. Engineering Choose from Biomedical | Civil, Construction and Environmental, | Electrical & Computer | Environmental | Mechanical Certificate, M.S., M.E., Ph.D., Accelerated Degree English Students will have the freedom to pursue their particular interests in literary studies in a way that prepares them for an array of future plans, including admission to the doctoral program. M.A., Accelerated Degree English Prepares students to teach at the college level and conduct research in literature written in English. Ph.D. Executive MBA Apply what you are learning to leadership challenges at work while earning your MBA degree. MBA Exercise and Rehabilitation Science One of only a few CTSI programs in the country specifically geared toward clinical research training in physical therapy and rehabilitation science. M.S., Ph.D., Accelerated Degree Finance Our fully online Master of Science in Finance program combines accounting, economics, and financial technology. Optional focus areas include: Corporate Finance, Investments, Commercial Banking or Real Estate. M.S., ADP Healthcare Data Analytics Advance your career in big data to help lower healthcare costs, improve patient care and help save lives. M.S., Accelerated Degree, Online Only History Choose to study three major areas including European History, United States History or Global Studies. M.A., Accelerated Degree History Deepen your knowledge of the past and the processes in United States or European History that have shaped the human experience. Ph.D. International Affairs Grow a strong foundation for further graduate or law study, as well as for careers in government or in non-governmental organizations. M.A., Accelerated Degree Law Studies Not all law schools are alike. Marquette is small, personal, and decidedly practical. It is also highly professional, with outstanding programs and experiential opportunities. J.D. Leadership in Business Designed for working professionals who are preparing themselves for leadership positions in government, corporations or not-for-profit organizations around the globe. Certificate Master in Management Our Master in Management program is delivered 100% online. Lead people with a set of skills built on data-driven, ethical, and context-based decision making. M.S., Online Math for Secondary School Teachers Although designed for teachers, it is also open to others who want to deepen their understanding of post-baccalaureate mathematics and mathematics education. M.S. MBA Gain keen insight into how to deliver the business skills that are in-demand and relevant to organizations in today’s ever-shifting business landscape. M.B.A., On Campus M.S., Online Neuroscience Designed with interdisciplinary research training and curriculum to prepare students for doctoral level interdisciplinary career opportunities in the growing arena of neuroscience research and industry. Ph.D., Accelerated Degree Nursing Build upon your nursing leadership and skill set with one of our certificate, MSN, DNP or Ph.D. programs in nursing and watch your career (and your heart) grow. Certificate, MSN, DNP, PhD Occupational Therapy Our entry-level clinical O.T.D. program offers professional course of study designed to educate future leaders of a collaborative and culturally responsive workforce. O.T.D. Philosophy Integrates a strong grounding in history with current debates in ethics, social philosophy, philosophy of mind, and aesthetics with specializations in social applied philosophy and history of philosophy. M.A., Accelerated Degree Philosophy Study diverse philosophical traditions to integrate the pursuit of enduring questions in the history of philosophy with contemporary problems and approaches. Ph.D. Psychology, Behavior Analysis Receive exemplary training in both research and practice with a focus on serving individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. M.S., Ph.D. Physical Therapy Immerse in foundational courses in the humanities and science . This highly competitive program focuses not only on the intellect, but on student character. D.P.T. Physician Assistant Dedicated to educating physician assistants for supervised practice of primary medicine in dynamic health care systems. M.P.A.S. Political Science This rigorous and flexible program provides a strong foundation for further graduate or law study, as well as for careers in government or in non-governmental organizations. M.A., Accelerated Degree, Dual Degree Public Service This interdisciplinary program in teaches students to effectively lead nonprofit organizations, and understand their key components between government and the nonprofit sector. M.A.P.S., Accelerated Degree Religious Studies Make significant contributions to theological research and writing, and college and high school teachers who can teach a broad range of courses. Ph.D. School Counseling Study human development, psychopathology, research, assessment, theories of counseling, ethical and legal issues as well as individual, group and other school counseling interventions. M.A. Speech Pathology Our speech-language pathology program offers advanced course work in the prevention, identification, evaluation and treatment of speech, language and hearing disorders in both children and adults. M.S., Accelerated Degree Sports and Exercise Data Analytics This program intersects physiology and biomechanics with data science to address specific questions regarding elite athletic, sport, exercise and human performance. M.S. Sports Leadership Designed for professionals who would like to strengthen their leadership skills and advance their career within the exciting $440 billion athletics industry. Certificate Supply Chain Management The online degree will equip you with the competencies and tools that you need to understand and lead the change in the transition from physical to digital supply chains. M.S., Online Theology Choose from four specializations including Christian Doctrine, Judaism and Christianity in Antiquity, Historical Theology or Systematic Theology/Theological Ethics. M.A. Transfusion Medicine A unique collaboration between and Versiti Blood Center of Wisconsin. Students have the opportunity to specialize in one of three areas. M.S.T.M. Location Marquette University Zilber Hall, Room 205 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7137 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©