Skip Navigation OU Confers Degrees to More Than 10,200 Students During 130th Commencement Ceremony Search: ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE SUPPORT OU VISIT APPLY NOW open my nav close my nav INFORMATION ABOUT OU ACADEMICS ADMISSIONS & AID CAMPUS LIFE NEXT STEPS APPLY NOW VISIT OU SUPPORT OU FOR YOU ALUMNI FUTURE SOONER PARENTS OU STUDENTS FACULTY & STAFF EXPLORE OU ATHLETICS NEWS & EVENTS CALENDAR RESEARCH CAMPUS SAFETY OUTREACH CONTACT OU Recent Articles OU Confers Degrees to More Than 10,200 Students During 130th Commencement Ceremony OU Board of Regents Approves Administrative Appointments, Additional Online Degree Offerings and More; Harroz Announces Plans for OU Polytechnic Institute OU to Graduate More Than 1,100 Health Care Providers and Scientists OU Receives Major Gift From McCasland Foundation to Enhance Oklahoma’s Engineering Workforce Needs United States, France Cooperation Advances International Weather Research view more OU Confers Degrees to More Than 10,200 Students During 130th Commencement Ceremony May 13, 2022 The University of Oklahoma conferred degrees to more than 10,200 students at the 130th Commencement ceremony, held this evening at the Lloyd Noble Center. The ceremony, a time-honored tradition filled with pageantry, celebrated students who completed their coursework during the spring 2022 semester, as well as summer and December 2021 graduates. OU President Joseph Harroz Jr. led the processional of distinguished guests, faculty, doctoral graduates, PE-ET Honor Society members, banner carriers selected by their colleges, and students bearing international and Native Nation flags, with music provided by the Pipes and Drums of the Highlanders and the University Commencement Choir and Band. Following the processional, attendees were invited to stand for the presentation of colors by the Kiowa Black Leggings Society. Harroz welcomed graduates and guests to the arena, noting that graduation is a rite of passage for students that celebrates the culmination of their OU experieince. During his remarks, Harroz reminded the Class of 2022 that they are the next in line to inherit the OU legacy. “You are our 130th class to celebrate graduation,” Harroz said. “Like all who came before you, your OU experience has changed, challenged and inspired you. Tonight, one chapter ends, and another begins – you move forward no longer as students, but as alumni with tremendous responsibility and boundless opportunities.” Attendees also heard from this year’s Commencement speaker, David Brooks. One of the nation’s leading critical thinkers and op-ed columnist for The New York Times, Brooks offered timely advice to graduates as they embark on the next chapter of their lives. “Some people think America is a nation in decline, and it will be your generation that determines whether that is true,” Brooks said. “The fate of America will be importantly determined by the quality of the way we see each other and treat each other in the smallest acts of daily life. Yours is a morally passionate generation. I ask you to focus part of your passion on the faces right in front of you. I ask you to show kindness, curiosity and emotional courage so you can illuminate the faces of those around you.” Brooks, along with four other individuals – James J. Mulva, Susan Stroman, J.C. Watts Jr. and R. Lynn Riggs, who was honored posthumously – were presented honorary degrees in recognition of their extraordinary achievements and generous service to the university and others. The ceremony concluded with the singing of the OU Chant and Oklahoma!, as guests and graduates displayed lights on their phones as a salute to the Class of 2022. “Your time at OU has made you stronger and has helped you see what matters,” Harroz said. “Your story and contribution to the OU legacy is just getting started.” About the University of Oklahoma Founded in 1890, the University of Oklahoma is a public research university located in Norman, Oklahoma. OU serves the educational, cultural, economic and health care needs of the state, region and nation. For more information visit www.ou.edu. The University of Oklahoma 660 Parrington Oval, Norman, OK 73019-0390 (405) 325-0311 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! facebook twitter instagram youtube OU Social Media Directory Updated 5/13/2022 by The University of Oklahoma: marcomm@ou.edu