Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content SMU Research Road to R1 Key Research Areas Research Centers and Institutes Research Administration Faculty Grants ☰ SMU SMU Research Faculty Grants Faculty Grants University Funding Opportunities University Research Council (URC) Grants Research Grants URC Research Grants fund faculty research across the disciplines to conduct preliminary studies, the results of which will be used to seek external funding, and to enable completion of scholarly works. Travel Grants URC Travel Grants fund travel to conferences held outside the continental United States, the cost of which is not normally covered by regular budgets (use research grant proposal format for non-conference travel). SMU Ford Fellowships The Office of the Provost administers these awards on the basis of recommendations from the University Research Council. Supported by a generous contribution from SMU Trustee Gerald J. Ford, these competitive research awards help the University retain and reward outstanding scholars. The Ford Research Fellowships provide stipends of $15,000 for up to four faculty members. External Funding Opportunities Access databases to search for grants, fellowships, and awards or schedule a research consultation, find your subject librarian, or request additional database resources. Search for Funding Faculty Fellowships and Awards SMU's Office of National Fellowships and Awards helps faculty to apply or be nominated for awards which are from sources external to the University and which are awarded to individuals. SMU Research Road to R1 Research Centers and Institutes Key Research Areas Research Administration Faculty Grants Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share