Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Access and Equity Services: What We Do The Office of Access and Equity coordinates the development of policy, procedures, programs and services related to equality of opportunity in employment, business access, admissions, retention, academics, advancement and general treatment for faculty, staff, students and visitors. Access and Equity monitors the University’s compliance with all federal, state and University policies related to equitable treatment and unlawful discrimination. Access and Equity accomplishes its mission through the implementation of activities in these main areas: compliance, education and training, outreach programs and research and evaluation. The research and evaluation component is done in collaboration with the Charles H. Houston Center for the Study of the Black Experience in Education. Compliance Access and Equity ensures University compliance with the following federal and state laws: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended Executive Order 11246, as amended Revised Order No. 4 Equal Pay Act of 1963 Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Higher Education Act) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 South Carolina Human Affairs Law Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Act of 1974 Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 These laws protect individuals from discrimination on the basis of protected classes. The University has developed Policies for Equitable Treatment to ensure compliance with these laws. The University has designated persons to be responsible for ensuring that policies regarding non-discrimination and equal opportunity are adhered to. The following individuals have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act. For students, contact: Margaret Camps, Director of Student Accessibility Services Class of ’56 Academic Success Center Building 836 McMillan Road, Suite 239 Clemson, South Carolina 29634-4060 864-656-6848 mmcamp@clemson.edu. For faculty and staff, contact: Priscilla Harrison, Director of ADA Services & Compliance, ADA Coordinator Clemson University Office of Access and Equity 223 Brackett Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5404 864-656-3553 priscih@clemson.edu. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies and affirmative action/equal opportunity: Jerry Knighton, Assistant Vice President for Access and Equity, Executive Director of Supplier Diversity Clemson University Office of Access and Equity 223 Brackett Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5404 864-656-3181 knightl@clemson.edu. Clemson University prohibits sexual harassment, including sexual violence.The following person has been designated to serve as the overall campus coordinator for Title IX compliance: Alesia Smith,Executive Director of Equity Compliance/ Title IX Coordinator Clemson University Office of Access and Equity 223 Holtzendorff Hall Clemson, SC 29634-5404 864.656.3181 alesias@clemson.edu. Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employment The Office of Access and Equity is responsible for the development and implementation of the affirmative action plan each year based on the University's utilization of minority resources. This plan contains goals for future utilization levels in areas where significant underutilization has been reported in the University. This information can be found in the South Carolina Human Affairs Commission (SHAC) report, The Status of Equal Employment in South Carolina State Government. "This report addresses the status of affirmative action in South Carolina state government agencies. In order to understand the report, one must understand what affirmative action is and is not, and what the Human Affairs Commission can and cannot do to implement affirmative action in state government" (according to their website). Outreach Programs The following programs are but a few of the activities supported by the Office of Access and Equity to provide increased access to groups whose participation has historically been underrepresented in Clemson’s programs and services: Clemson University’s Diversity Procurement Initiative The Office of Access and Equity has been charged with the responsibility of leading the University’s Diversity Procurement Initiative. The University endorses and adopts the state of South Carolina’s goal of ensuring that minority-owned businesses represent a minimum of 10 percent of state agency procurement contracts. Access and Equity engages in outreach efforts to women and minority-owned businesses and vendors to announce business opportunities at Clemson for procured services and capital projects on and off-campus. Education and Training Access and Equity provides a variety of training, workshops and lectures for faculty, staff and students. Training can be tailored to fit the needs of the department, division or classroom. Below are some of the offerings that may be requested: Civil Treatment® Professional Development Programs Civil Treatment® for Leaders provides a comprehensive approach to fair employment practices to help managers learn to deal constructively with employee and student issues and relationships on the job. Civil Treatment® for Employees provides a comprehensive approach to fair employment practices in the workplace. It is designed to help employees learn steps to follow should an uncomfortable situation arise and provide instructions about the University’s policies and procedures for addressing these situations. It provides an interactive, skills-based approach to learning that encourages all employees to do their share in building a professional, respectful and productive workplace environment free of harassment and retaliation. For more information, click here. Title IX Training on Sexual Harassment/Sexual Violence/Sexual Misconduct (for Student Organizations) – This three part video series provides an overview of Title IX for student organizations and discusses issues related to sexual harassment, sexual violence and sexual misconduct. The course will address university responsibilities, the compliant process, the student code of conduct, the definition of consent, and resources and support available to persons who experience sexual victimization. To view the videos, click here. Sexual Harassment – Provides an overview of sexual harassment from the perspective of the victim, the harasser and the supervisor/manager. Recognizing Workplace Harassment/Discrimination – Provides an overview of the University’s policy on harassment/discrimination. This session discusses various forms of harassment/discrimination and the University’s process for filing and resolving complaints. For persons interested in taking an online course addressing sexual harassment and other workplace harassment issues, please contact us at knightl@clemson.edu for access information. Creating and Managing Diversity in the Workplace – This two-part workshop provides strategies using affirmative action and strategic planning to create a diverse workforce. Part two of the workshop discusses culture and its impact on decision-making and problem-solving. This interactive workshop concludes with strategies for addressing difficult workplace issues. How to Conduct an Inclusive Search – Provides “best practices” and other resources to assist hiring managers, department administrators and faculty search committees in their efforts to add gender and ethnic diversity to the workforce. Understanding ADA Compliance – Explains the University’s role and responsibilities for complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and provides information on how to provide reasonable accommodations. Title IX Training Videos Title IX Training on Sexual Harassment/Sexual Violence/Sexual Misconduct (for Student Organizations) This three part video series provides an overview of Title IX for student organizations and discusses issues related to sexual harassment, sexual violence and sexual misconduct. Requires Clemson ID to view. Click here for Titile IX Training videos. Research and Evaluation Under the Division of Inclusion and Equity, The Office of Access and Equity and The Charles H. Houston Center for the Study of the Black Experience in Education pursue a collaborative research program that seeks to examine high school students’ academic achievement, college student persistence, as well as the recruitment and retention of college faculty. To advance the goals of the scholarly partnership, the Charles H. Houston Center conducts research and disseminates information regarding the factors impacting educational attainment and academic success among African American student in high school and college. Research and Evaluation Objectives: Explore the influences of school characteristics, academic experiences and family characteristics on students' educational outcomes. Investigate faculty recruitment and retention issues. Home American with Disabilities (ADA) Graduate Diversity Doctoral Fellowship Award Policies and Procedures Services SREB Conference Supplier Diversity Contact Us Related Links Title IX Inclusion and Equity Student Accessibility Services ClemsonLife Request an ASL Interpreter Request real-time or live captioning Accessibility Portal Accessibility Commission Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram