Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Office of Diversity and Inclusion Home About People Programming & Initiatives Training & Events Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Leadership Staff Diversity and Inclusion Committee Staff Advisory Committee Center and Departmental DIAP Committee contacts Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Ongoing trainings Past Events Webinar Resources during COVID-19 Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students We recognize that the COVID epidemic poses unique challenges and these resources are meant to support equitable learning as we transition to new modality for the learning community. Resources for Researchers On use of race in biomedical publications On use of race and ethnicity as study variables On using critical race praxis in health services research A New Standard For Publishing On Racial Health Inequities Resources for Instructors Digital Learning & Design ([email protected]) offers instructional design consultations for instructors who would like assistance with remote teaching. Media Services ([email protected]) is offering remote teaching A/V support (e.g., “Zoom Buddies”) for faculty who want in-class assistance. Request form. IT Service Center offers technical support. Call (401) 863-4357 or Chat or sign up for a one-to-one Zoom settings review session. The Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning ([email protected]) offers events, resources, and consultations for faculty, graduate student, and undergraduate instructors. The College offers course enhancement and development grants, and can consult on concerns related to individual undergraduates and policy matters ([email protected]). The Library can be contacted via [email protected] for assistance with access to digital materials, including DVD and VHS formats, as well as reserves. Resources for Students For technical support for students refer them to the IT Service Center, [email protected], 401-863-HELP. Please refer students to the remote learning Covid-19 site and specifically to the remote learning guide and remote learning index. Undergraduates in need of short-term academic advice or support can contact one of the academic deans in the College. Student Support Services deans can be a helpful resource to discuss personal, family or health-related concerns, as well as academic and personal plans. The University has developed dedicated resources to assist undergraduates with high demonstrated financial need who have emergent expenses related to the transition to remote learning. Graduate students can be directed to resources here. Graduate student support resources include Graduate School deans, including the Associate Dean of Student Support, or one of the Support Deans in Student Support Services. A comprehensive contact list can be found here. Also available are Graduate Student FAQs. Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Brown University School of Public Health 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top