By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity Accessible Syracuse More from this Section Report a Concern Diversity & Inclusion LGBTQ Resource Center Center for International Services Religious Groups Disability Cultural Center STOP Bias and Hate Multicultural Affairs Women in Leadership Initiative Accessible Syracuse Syracuse University is an inclusive community. We seek to provide equal opportunities for all, including individuals with disabilities. Our varied services not only accommodate individuals with disabilities, but also recognize their potential to excel in both educational and career opportunities at Syracuse. The University supports these services by committing to the accessibility of the campus environment, facilities, and digital presence, including its websites, online communications, and technology. If you have a related question or concern, please submit it using the “Report a concern” button below. Report a concern Disability Services and Resources ASL Interpreting Services/CART This Answers page provides guidance on how and when to seek ASL Interpreting Services and/or CART. Beyond Compliance Coordinating Committee A nationally prominent advocacy group at Syracuse University that focuses on creating and supporting a fully inclusive climate in all University settings. Center for Disability Resources CDR engages the University community to empower students, enhance equity, and provide a platform for innovation and inclusion. Disability Cultural Center Coordinates campus-wide social, educational, and cultural activities on disability issues for students, faculty, staff, and community members with and without disabilities. Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion, and Resolution Services The Office of Equal Opportunity, Inclusion & Resolution Services works with students, faculty, and staff, to foster a climate of inclusion, access, and opportunity. This office is responsible for making sure that the University complies with all state and federal laws pertaining to accommodations, access, sexual & relationship violence, discrimination and harassment among other things. Staff and faculty may request reasonable accommodations for a disability through this office. Information and Communication Technology Accessibility Policy This policy covers all content and technology, including websites, web-based and mobile applications, email, webconferencing, video conferencing, video streaming, instructional materials, electronic documents, blended and online courses, and all academic and administrative software applications acquired or adopted after the effective date of this policy. Libraries Access The libraries provide a range of services for individuals who may require assistance or specific tools in order to access and use those resources and services. Planning Inclusive Events The resource provides guidance and resources for planning inclusive events. Procurement of Accessible ICT Products This Answers page provides guidance on procuring ICT Products and Services as required by SU’s Information and Communication Technology Accessibility Policy Syracuse University Parent Advocacy Center (SUPAC) SUPAC promotes meaningful parent involvement in the inclusive education of their children with disabilities. SUPAC works to involve and empower parents by informing them as well as their children of their rights within the educational system. Technology Accessibility This page provides guidance on finding, creating, and acquiring accessibility technology. Getting Around Athletic Event Access Research Centers Burton Blatt Institute Center on Human Policy Institute for Veterans and Military Families Institute on Communication and Inclusion Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education More Information William Myhill Interim Director and ADA/503/504 Coordinator ada@syr.edu Melanie Domanico Accommodations for Faculty and Staff ada@syr.edu Featured Stories Using Personal Experience and Empathy to Keep Employees Working Melanie Domanico ensures employees are provided the accommodations they need to be successful. InclusiveU Encourages Student Achievement and Engagement While Distance Learning Students with intellectual and developmental disabilities are fully included with their peers at Syracuse University. Center for Disability Resources Recognizes Faculty and Staff The ceremony celebrates a successful year of support and connection between faculty and staff and disabled students. Speaking Up About Stuttering Students, families and medical professionals gather about the common but often misunderstood speech disorder. Related Pages Campus ADA Resources View contact information for ASL Interpreting Services and CART providers. Reasonable Accommodations If you require accommodations for a disability, please let us know. Diversity and Inclusion Explore programs, initiatives, services, offices, groups, and other resources available on campus. Academic Programs Disability Law and Policy Program Disability Rights Clinic Disability Studies Disability Studies Minor Inclusive Elementary and Special Education Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy