Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Cloud Computing Nonimmigrant Workers and Exchange Visitors Restricted Party Screening Export Control Compliance Policies and Forms Shipping and Transportation Technology Control Plans Travel and Export Compliance Export Control Compliance News Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Cloud Computing Nonimmigrant Workers and Exchange Visitors Restricted Party Screening Export Control Compliance Policies and Forms Shipping and Transportation Technology Control Plans Travel and Export Compliance Export Control Compliance News Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA Export Control Compliance AAA Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Cloud Computing Nonimmigrant Workers and Exchange Visitors Restricted Party Screening Export Control Compliance Policies and Forms Shipping and Transportation Technology Control Plans Travel and Export Compliance Export Control Compliance News Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Export Control Compliance The University of Miami conducts focused research to advance knowledge, enhance student learning experiences, and build its reputation in the scientific and technical communities while providing positive returns on sponsoring partners’ investments. While the University applies the principles of freedom of inquiry and open exchange of knowledge, we must also be mindful of the federal laws and regulations governing the exchange of research materials and results that are subject to export controls. Export Control Compliance Policy Export Control Compliance Forms Export Control Compliance: The Basics Open All Tabs What are Export Controls? It is the policy of the University of Miami to comply with all U.S. export control laws and regulations, and to develop and maintain an export control compliance program to enable UM employees, visiting scientists, postdoctoral fellows, students and other persons retained by or working at or for the University to conduct their University business in accordance with these laws and regulations. No University associate may engage in any activity that is prohibited by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or any other government agency with export governance. No University personnel may transfer any controlled item, including technology and technical data, without approved documentation from the appropriate governing agency. How is something exported? When we think of exporting, we tend to envision a parcel being sent overseas. However, exporting can occur through just about any means such as telephone calls, email, lab tours, meetings, computer data, social media, visual inspection, oral exchanges, screen shots, auditory, and shared drives. This is why it is important to be conscious of your environment and those who are in it. One of the biggest concerns with respect to export controls, especially at the University, is “deemed export” violations. These occur when an item, technology, or even source code is released (or exported) to a foreign person within the United States. In a university setting, it is important that items such as unpublished research findings, funds, computers, lasers, and electronics are not released to a foreign person without the proper license or authorizing documentation in place first. Who is a Foreign Person? Any natural person who is not a lawful permanent resident of the United States, citizen of the United States, or any other protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3). It also means any corporation, business association, partnership, trust, society or any other entity or group that is not incorporated in the United States or organized to do business in the United States, as well as international organizations, foreign governments and any agency or subdivision of a foreign government (e.g., diplomatic mission). “Foreign person” is synonymous with “foreign national,” as used in the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and “foreign person” as used in the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 CFR 120.16). This definition does not apply to part 760 of the EAR (Restrictive Trade Practices or Boycotts). What University activities are affected by Export Controls? Do you travel overseas on University business, whether for a conference, meeting, or to conduct field work? Do you collaborate with foreign persons, whether in the U.S. or abroad? Do you conduct tours or visits of research facilities? Do you work on sponsored research, even as a subcontractor, with people or entities from a foreign country? Have you provided consulting services internationally? All these activities are examples of some of the normal, everyday business functions that occur at the University which are also subject to export controls. There is a variety of scientific equipment at the University that is being used and developed. However, when designing such equipment, research needs to go into the components being used for these devices. If a component that is military-grade is used, the entire device as well as the project may become controlled in the strictest way. Equipment purchased from a vendor needs to be researched to ensure that there are no export controls that may require the need for a license. This information is obtained when an item is being procured through the University purchasing system; however, it is standard and acceptable to ask for the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN), or United States Monitoring List (USML) from the vendor when obtaining a quote in order to discern if there are any export control risks prior to purchasing the item. The manufacturer/vendor of the item should also provide the Schedule B/HTS number. Why are Export Controls important? Export compliance affects everyone in just about everything. Following the events of September 11, 2001, there has been a heightened level of awareness and scrutiny of all export activities with an emphasis on enforcement. Federal agencies are increasingly focused on universities and their compliance with export regulations. Non-compliance with export regulations can lead to substantial and severe criminal and monetary penalties imposed on both the individual who committed the violations as well as the institution. Not to mention spend time in jail, have licenses revoked, and an assortment of other consequences that the government deems appropriate for the crime. While information is shared on campuses, there is still an ethical and sometimes legal responsibility to protect research. With the extensive amount of primary research done at universities, many researchers hope to gain recognition for innovative research. However, if their research is published by someone else first, they may lose that distinction and credit.Research is often funded by private companies or the government who may need a first-to-market practical application from the research to make it worth their investment. Stealing from the research then could equate to stealing money from the funding organization. How do you know if something is controlled? Very simply – you will not until you do some investigative work. But, you can help mitigate the release of controlled information by remembering these few points: Know the people you are working with. Verify with your supervisor or sponsor who is authorized to receive the sensitive information you are working on. Do not assume. Understand the project and not just the objective. The PIs and others that are part of the management team need to be aware and monitor items that are considered sensitive or export controlled. This includes the equipment being used for the research.Keeping an inventory of items in your lab/work space and establishing a technology control plan will help in managing the project as well as the department. Be aware of your surroundings. Do not talk to someone about sensitive information unless it is behind closed doors or through secured resources. SharePoint, Skype, NetMeeting and Cloud computing are not secured electronic sources. Keep a record of the meetings, phone calls, emails, or other activities that take place – especially when the project or information is sensitive or controlled in any way. When in doubt – ASK! Talk with your PI, Supervisor, Manager, or the University's Director of Export Control Compliance if you have a question or concern. What are examples of controlled items? Advanced computer, microelectronics and telecommunications Advanced avionics and navigation, including space-related technologies and protoypes Applied Physics – e.g. lasers and directed energy systems Bioreactor systems Biotech and Biomed Engineering Chemicals (including academic medical center and health sciences research) Chemical Agents (e.g. Lyssa virus, Chlamydia psittaci, HT-2 toxin, Bartonella Quintana) High Performance Computers Information security and encryption Marine Technologies Nanotechnology Sensors, sensor technology, imaging Sophisticated machine tool technologies and bearings Wouldn’t the Fundamental Research Exclusion (FRE) apply? Five conditions must be met in order to apply the Fundamental Research Exclusion (FRE): No publication restrictions can be accepted as part of the research agreement, either verbally or in writing. No foreign person restrictions can be accepted as part of the research agreement, either verbally or in writing. The scope of the project must constitute either basic or applied research. The scope of the project does not constitute development. The research project must be conducted at an accredited institution of higher learning in the United States. Even if all 5 conditions are met, export controls may still apply to actual materials, items, or technologies involved in or resulting from the research. ECO News Brief UM Export Control Office News Brief —The Eye of the Hurricane Decision Trees Open All Tabs Is the project compliant with export controls? Use this decision tree to determine whether your project is in compliance with export controls, or whether further review is required by the Director of Export Control Compliance. Is the project subject to Export Administration Regulations? Use this decision tree from the Department of Commerce to determine whether you are subject to the EAR. What to do if a project is subject to Export Administration Regulations This decision tree from the Department of Commerce can assist in determining what to do if the project is subject to the EAR. How should shipping/transporting items out of the U.S. be handled? Please use this decision tree when shipping/transporting items out of the U.S. Resources Foreign Engagement & Influence Cloud Computing Nonimmigrant Workers & Exchange Visitors Restricted Party Screening Shipping & Transport Technology Control Plans Travel & Export Compliance Export Control in the News Additional Tools University Contacts University Training External Resources Director of Export Control Compliance | 305-284-9558 Research Compliance & Quality Assurance (RCQA) | 305-243-4538 General Counsel's Office | 305-284-2700 Training: ULearn – Live training sessions, including one-on-one training sessions are available to understand basics of export compliance and how they affect University activities are available for registration through ULearn. Training: Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) – CITI is currently a free subscription service providing research ethics education to all members of the research community. The CITI Export Controls course is an extensive series of modules to help the learner understand the major sets of export control regulations, key terms and concepts, and why it is important for researchers in U.S. institutions of higher education to have core knowledge of U.S. export regulations. Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) – U.S. Dept. of Commerce The Bureau of Industry and Security has several Decision Tree Tools to assist users. BIS Compliance & Enforcement Lists to Check BIS Commerce Control List (CCL) The CCL Order of Review Tool assists users in understanding the steps to follow in reviewing the Commerce Control List (CCL). This is useful in trying to determine if items appear on the CCL and identify the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN). The Specially Designed Decision Tool will assist users in determining if an item will be considered “specially designed” under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR). The STA Compliance Tool will help users determine if they are eligible to use and will be in compliance with License Exception Strategic Trade Authorization (STA). Department of Commerce/Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) FAQs Directorate of Defense Trade Controls – U.S. Dept. of State Department of Treasury/Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) FAQs OFAC Embargoes & Country Policies OFAC Sanctions Program & Country Summaries OFAC Specially Designated Nationals List The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) – Opportunities for Universities Defense Technology Security Administration (DTSA) U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Wassenaar Arrangement The White House – President Barack Obama: Executive Order 13558 – Export Coordination Enforcement Center Department of State/Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC) FAQs University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices