Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Search About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets Faculty Career Opportunities About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Home Faculty Career Opportunity AAA Faculty Career Opportunities GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Open Rank Professor in Marine or Atmospheric Science with Data Science Expertise The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science (RSMAS) and the Institute for Data Science and Computing (IDSC) at the University of Miami are soliciting applications for tenured or tenure-track faculty position in any of the five RSMAS departments: Atmospheric Science, Environmental Science and Policy, Marine Biology and Ecology, Marine Geosciences, and Ocean Sciences. Applications are sought from scientists who leverage large data sets, statistical learning techniques, machine learning, and data science to advance knowledge in the Earth System or any one of its components: oceans, atmosphere, geology, biota, and human–environment interactions. The two positions open now are part of an intended cluster hire seeking to fill five data science positions in each of the five RSMAS departments in the next three years, to infuse data science into research efforts and instructional programs. The successful applicants will hold joint appointments in one of the RSMAS departments and in IDSC. They are expected to teach courses at the graduate and undergraduate levels, mentor students, and maintain an active research program. The successful candidate for a tenured faculty position should have a record of internationally recognized scholarly accomplishments, teaching experience, and a sustained externally funded research program, while successful applicants at the assistant or associate professor level must demonstrate potential to develop an externally funded research program of international reputation. Applicants are expected to demonstrate a commitment to excellence in teaching, mentorship, service and the promotion of diversity, equity and inclusion. The candidates are expected to participate in collaborative and interdisciplinary research and to contribute to IDSC’s core mission of fostering inter-disciplinary and data-intensive research across the University of Miami. To be eligible, candidates must hold a Ph.D. or terminal degree with a focus on data science in their field by the appointment start date. Applications will be considered at all ranks. Review of applications will begin Dec 1st. Each appointment is expected to start as soon as feasible. The application material can be submitted via the UM Careers website and should include: Letter of interest that describes your anticipated contributions to scholarship, teaching, and service in the RSMAS (suggested limit of 2 pages) Current CV Research statement (2 pages) Teaching statement (2 pages) A statement of commitments and contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion (1 page) The names of three colleagues who can provide us with a reference Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science of the University of Miami is a world leader in Earth sciences. Fundamental and interdisciplinary research are focused on understanding the chemical, physical and biological processes controlling the evolution of the marine, atmospheric and terrestrial environments, and the associated human-environment interactions. The Institute for Data Science and Computing’s core mission is to catalyze data-intensive research across the University of Miami focused on the needs of the region and to enhance data science understanding among our students and the public, by leveraging state-of-the-art resources and enabling novel interdisciplinary collaborations across UM and with industry partners. The University of Miami is an Equal Opportunity Employer - Females/Minorities/Protected Veterans/Individuals with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants and employees are protected from discrimination based on certain categories protected by Federal law. Click herefor additional information. The University of Miami is an Equal Opportunity Employer - Females/Minorities/Protected Veterans/Individuals with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants and employees are protected from discrimination based on certain categories protected by Federal law. Click here for additional information. Open Rank Faculty Search Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science The Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science of the University of Miami is a world leader in Earth sciences. Fundamental research is combined with an emphasis on interdisciplinary science, natural resource management, and understanding of the impacts of natural disasters and global environmental change. The Rosenstiel School strives for academic excellence while committed to fostering a culture of belonging, where everyone feels valued and has the opportunity to add value. Through values of Diversity, Integrity, Responsibility, Excellence, Compassion, Creativity, and Teamwork (DIRECCT) the RSMAS community works together to create an environment driven by purpose, excellence, community, and service. The Rosenstiel School in Marine and Atmospheric Science at the University of Miami (UM) seeks to expand its vibrant intellectual community through inviting applications within a cluster hiring initiative to appoint up to five tenured or tenure-track faculty members, one per Department, who meet the following qualifications: Faculty who would bring visibility, renown, and additional impact to any of the five individual RSMAS Departments in Atmospheric Sciences, Ocean Sciences, Marine Geosciences, Marine Biology and Ecology, or Environmental Science and Policy; Faculty who would add to the long-standing goal of increasing diversity across our departments; Applications will be considered at the Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor ranks. Each appointment is expected to start as soon as feasible but no later than August 15, 2022. To be eligible for each appointment, candidates must hold a Ph.D. or terminal degree in their field by the appointment start date. Applications can be submitted via the UM Careers website at: https://umiami.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/UMFaculty/job/Miami-FL/Open-Rank-Faculty-Search-Rosenstiel-School-of-Marine-and-Atmospheric-Sciences_R100050400 Applications shall include: Letter of interest that describes your anticipated contributions to scholarship, teaching, and service in the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Current CV Research statement Teaching statement A statement that explains your contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion The names of three colleagues who can provide us with a reference Please know that you can upload all your application documents in a single PDF or in up to five documents (5MB per file) under the Resume/CV section of your online application. Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the positions are filled. The University of Miami is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Women, minorities, protected veterans, LGBTQIA+ people, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants and employees are protected from discrimination based on certain categories protected by Federal law. Click here for additional information. The University of Miami is an Equal Opportunity Employer - Females/Minorities/Protected Veterans/Individuals with Disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants and employees are protected from discrimination based on certain categories protected by Federal law. Click here for additional information. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 305-421-4000 305-421-4000 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map UM Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices