Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Theory MM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Theory MM Apply Request More Info Music Theory MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Music in Music Theory Study the current analytical trends in music theory and its applications with the Master of Music in Music Theory in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Graduates of the Music Theory MM are prepared to pursue further academic study at the doctoral level. Others become professional composers or performers. Housed within the Department of Music Studies, this master’s program is organized into a series of small seminars. Through discussion and research, you will build strong analytical skills and develop the tools to apply music theory in the academic environment. The program culminates in a comprehensive examination and a written project that is 30 to 40 pages in length. You will have six years to complete the 32-credit-hour master’s degree on a full- or part-time basis. To apply to this program, you should be able to read a foreign language, have a well-rounded background in music history and theory, and be proficient in writing. Learn to apply the knowledge and skills you gain through your studies to composition, performance, research, teaching or therapy. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music theory faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music therapy degree programs. Classes & Curriculum In addition to the final written project, required courses in this master’s program include Canon and Fugue, Current Topics in Musicology and Theory, Research in Music, Seminar in Theoretical Analysis (Post-Tonal Music), and Seminar in Theoretical Analysis (Schenkerian Analysis). Learn more about Music Theory MM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music History MM Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Dr. Cynthia Folio is the program coordinator in the Music Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-8316 Email: cynthia.folio@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. The Boyer College Electroacoustic Ensemble Project (BEEP) brings together students who create electroacoustic music in a collaborative environment. It functions as an electronic music band, a fusion of computers and traditional instruments, and a laptop orchestra. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MTHR-MMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Theory MM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info