Skip to content Facilities Management Submit a Work Order Alerts & Outages About Us Search Campus Life Campus Life Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC On-Campus Housing Apply for On-Campus Housing Prospective Residents Current Residents Our Residences Housing Resources About Us 50 Haven Athletic Center We are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday only. Get More Information Facilities Services Facilities Services COVID-19 Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us COVID-19 Facilities Management and Campus Services is taking additional measures around campus to support basic operations. Learn How We Are Protecting the Campus Classroom Resources Classroom Resources Space Reservations Classroom Technology and Equipment Accessibility in the Classroom Student Lockers Training Calendar Contact Us Space Reservations Room Policies and Support List of Available Rooms 25Live Event Scheduler Capital Projects Capital Projects Our Projects Haven Plaza Request a Capital Project CARE Crew For Vendors and Contractors FAQ Contact Us Our Projects We are continuously renovating, building upon, and improving CUIMC's historic campus as a center for excellence and healing. View Our Projects Fire and Life Safety Fire and Life Safety Fire Safety Regulatory Compliance Contractor Safety Accessibility Gender-Neutral Restrooms Asbestos Maintenance Emergency Management Smoke-Free CUIMC FAQ Contact Us Fire Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center's fire safety team keeps our community safe from fire. Learn About Fire Safety Earth Month 2022: Learn how we're supporting Columbia's Plan 2030 . Read more. Earth Month 2022: Learn how we're supporting Columbia's Plan 2030 . Read more. The Knowledge Center Debuts Its Expanded Wing The Knowledge Center Debuts Its Expanded Wing Public Safety Shares Commuter Safety Tips Public Safety Shares Commuter Safety Tips COVID-19: Learn the latest updates for Spring 2022 COVID-19: Learn the latest updates for Spring 2022 Our spaces and services support transformative health care, education, and research. Our spaces and services support transformative health care, education, and research. Faculty and Staff Submit and Check on Work Orders Event Support Resources for Researchers CUIMC Parking Classroom Resources Worker Safety Students On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Public Safety Accessibility in the Classroom Visitors Getting to and Around Campus Alternative Transportation and Directions Accessibility Broken light bulb? Planning a big move? We provide the services, big and small, that support your work and studies at the medical center. How to Submit and Check on Work Orders How to Submit and Check on Work Orders Alerts & Outages Haven Plaza Advisory: Roadway Repairs, May 25-June 2 Hellman Construction will be performing repair work along the roadway in Haven Plaza from May 25 to June 2 from 7 a.m. to approximately 3 p.m. on weekdays. Georgian Bldg.: Façade Inspections Begin Apr. 27 Beginning on Wednesday, April 25, façade inspections will take place daily from 10 a.m. to approximately 6 p.m. at the Georgian Residence. Black Bldg.: 5th Floor Lab Renovations Beginning in mid-April 2022, we will be renovating several research laboratories located on the 5th floor of the William Black Building. VP&S Bldg.: Amphitheater 5/7 Construction We will be renovating Amphitheater 5/7, which is located in the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Building. View all Alerts & Outages News April 2022 Safety Topic: Confined Spaces April 21, 2022 For more information or questions about Confined Spaces, please speak with your Supervisor. Topic Fire and Life Safety CUIMC Facilities Management Celebrates Earth Month 2022 April 1, 2022 In recognition of Earth Month 2022, CUIMC Facilities Management is sharing a series of articles on how it's committed to creating a more sustainable campus. Topic Campus News Recharge NY and Hydropower in Washington Heights April 4, 2022 As part of its Earth Month 2022 series, CUIMC Facilities Management shares how the medical center took a big step toward Plan 2030 by receiving a Recharge New York Hydropower Grant. Topic Campus News Student-Led Photo Exhibit Debuts at Knowledge Center March 31, 2022 A photo exhibition titled “First-Year Medical Students’ Experiences During the COVID-19 Pandemic” is currently on display at the Knowledge Center at the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library. Topic Campus News Public Safety Shares Commuter Safety Tips March 3, 2022 Columbia University's Department of Public Safety recently shared a video presentation that offers useful safety tips for traveling on MTA subways and buses. View All News Columbia University Irving Medical Center Submit a Work Order Sign Up for Alerts Campus Map How Are We Doing? Contact Us CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services 650 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top