We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Office of the President Home About About the President Memberships and Appointments President's CV From the President Messages Video Messages Presidential Orders News Strategic Planning Campus Conversations About Campus Conversations FuturePaths: Career and Professional Readiness Model Archive Leadership in the CSU Schedule the President Presidential History at CPP Honoring Excellence President's Scholars President's Honor List Emeritus Awards Whistleblower Protection Act Campus Leadership Office Directory Another Year of Transforming Lives and Communities May 13, 2022 Hello fellow Broncos! I just want to say thank you for another amazing year of impact at Cal Poly Pomona. Each of you — students, faculty, staff, alumni, and friends — keep this university moving forward. And because of your dedication, lives and communities are transformed. None of us need to be reminded of the challenges of the last two years. The trials brought on by the pandemic have been felt by us all. But through your ongoing patience and resilience, we’ve been able to endure as a campus community. I can’t begin to say how fulfilling it has been to have the hustle and bustle returning to our campus, as we engage, interact, learn from, and support one another. And while this time of year is always filled with anticipation — along with perhaps some expected trepidation about upcoming finals — the end of this semester is particularly exciting as we prepare for the return of Commencement to our campus. In just a few days — family members, friends, loved ones, and supporters will come together right here in our University Quad as we celebrate the Class of 2022. To all our graduating students, I offer my deepest congratulations. This is a tremendous achievement that represents the next milestone in a journey that started long before you came to Cal Poly Pomona, and which now launches you into the rest of your lives. Enjoy this moment. You earned it. And as you celebrate, please remember to stay in touch. If you haven’t already joined the Alumni Association, I strongly encourage you to do so. There’s no better way to stay connected to your alma mater. And again — to the entire Cal Poly Pomona community — thank you for another great year, and I wish you a happy and healthy summer. 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers