Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links University Catalog Menu Main Nav University Catalog University Catalog Back Back Close Undergraduate Programs Overview Carroll School of Management Accounting Business Analytics Business Law and Society Finance General Management Information Systems Management and Organization Marketing Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Art, Art History, and Film Biochemistry Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Eastern, Slavic, and German Studies Economics Engineering English Environmental Studies History Interdisciplinary Programs and Minors (MCAS) International Studies Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Woods College of Advancing Studies Summer Session Graduate Programs Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Connell School of Nursing Lynch School of Education and Human Development Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology School of Theology and Ministry Woods College of Advancing Studies Courses Overview Boston College Law School Boston College School of Social Work Carroll School of Management Accounting Courses Business Analytics Courses Business Law and Society Courses Business Writing and Communication Courses Finance Courses Information Systems Courses Management and Organization Courses Management Elective Courses Management Required Courses Marketing Courses Portico Courses Undergraduate Management Courses Connell School of Nursing Nursing Courses Forensics Courses Palliative Care Courses Lynch School of Education and Human Development Counseling, Developmental, and Educational Psychology Courses Educational Leadership and Higher Education Courses Experience, Reflection, Action Courses Learning Engineering Courses Measurement, Evaluation, Statistics, and Assessment Courses Teacher Education and Curriculum and Instruction Courses Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences African and African Diaspora Studies Courses Art History Courses Biology Courses Capstone Courses Chemistry Courses Classical Studies Courses Communication Courses Computer Science Courses Cornerstone Courses Earth and Environmental Sciences Courses East Asian Languages and Civilizations Courses Economics Courses Engineering Courses English Courses Environmental Studies Courses Film Courses French Courses German Studies Courses Hispanic Studies Courses History Courses Italian Courses International Studies Courses Islamic Civilization and Societies Courses Jesuit Studies Courses Journalism Courses Linguistics Courses Mathematics Courses Music Academic Courses Music Performance Courses Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Courses Philosophy Courses Physics Courses Political Science Courses Psychology and Neuroscience Courses Romance Languages and Literatures Courses Slavic Studies Courses Sociology Courses Studio Art Courses Theatre Courses Theology Courses University Courses Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society School of Theology and Ministry Christian Ethics Courses Course Area Unspecified Courses History of Christianity Courses New Testament Courses Old Testament Courses Pastoral Studies Courses Practical Theology Courses Religious Education Courses Systematic and Historical Theology Courses Woods College of Advancing Studies Accounting Courses Administrative Studies Courses Biology Courses Business Management Courses Communication Courses Corporate Systems Courses Criminal Justice Courses Cybersecurity Courses Economics Courses Education Courses English Courses Examined Life Courses Film Courses Finance Courses Fine Arts Courses Geology Courses Healthcare Administration Courses History Courses Information Technology Courses Journalism Courses Law Courses Leadership Studies Courses Marketing Courses Mathematics Courses Philosophy Courses Political Science Courses Psychology Courses Romance Languages Courses Sociology Courses Spanish Courses Sports Administration Courses Sustainability Courses Theology Courses Policies and Procedures Catalog Archive Close Directory A to Z Listing Search University Catalog Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Programs Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Philosophy Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics English History Islamic Civilization and Societies Mathematics Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology and Neuroscience Romance Languages and Literatures Sociology Theology Philosophy The Department of Philosophy offers M.A. and Ph.D. programs. These programs provide a strong emphasis on the history of philosophy (ancient, medieval, modern, and contemporary), and a special focus on Continental philosophy from Kant to the present. Faculty also teach and conduct research in metaphysics, philosophy of science, philosophy of religion, ethics, aesthetics, and social and political philosophy. Students have considerable flexibility in designing programs of study and have access to the resources of Political Science, Theology, and other departments. If a desired course is not offered, it may be possible to arrange a Readings and Research course on the desired topic (consult with the appropriate professor). The department also participates in a joint M.A. Program in Philosophy and Theology, and a Law and Philosophy Dual Degree Program (see below). Admission to the doctoral program is highly selective (about five admitted each year from over 200 applicants). Doctoral studies are funded for five years (four for students who already have an M.A. when they enter the program) in the form of tuition remission, Research Assistantship and Teaching Fellowship, and a University Fellowship in the last year for the writing of the dissertation free of any other duty. Doctoral students are expected to pursue the degree on a full-time basis and to maintain satisfactory progress toward the completion of degree requirements. The M.A. program may be taken on a full-time (two years) or part-time basis (five years maximum). Financial aid and tuition remission are not normally available for students seeking the M.A. All applicants must submit the results of the Graduate Record Examination. Students who speak a native language other than English must provide evidence of English proficiency. A score of 100 or higher on the TOEFL iBT test or 7.0 or higher on the IELTS test or 120 or higher on the Duolingo English test is required. TOEFL, IELTS scores are considered valid from exams taken a maximum of two years prior to application program deadlines. For more information on the programs, please consult our website at bc.edu/philosophy. Philosophy Courses Philosophy Faculty Philosophy Website Print Open All Close All M.A. Program Requirements M.A. Program Requirements Requirements for the M.A. are as follows: Ten courses (30 credits) Proficiency in one foreign language Qualifying research paper It is possible, though not common, for students to write an M.A. thesis in place of two courses (six credits). Ph.D. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Requirements for the Ph.D. are as follows: One year of full-time residence Sixteen courses (48 credits) Proficiency in logic (tested by course or by examination) Proficiency in two foreign languages One hour and fifteen-minute oral Preliminary comprehensive examination Doctoral comprehensive examination Dissertation Oral defense of the dissertation Students entering the program with an M.A. in philosophy may be credited with six courses (18 credits) toward the Ph.D. The Preliminary comprehensive exam is a one hour and fifteen-minute oral examination on a reading list in the history of philosophy, and it is to be taken at the end of the student’s first year. The Doctoral comprehensive exam has two components: writing and oral defense of a qualifying paper; submission and oral defense of a dissertation prospectus. They are to be taken respectively in the first and the second semester of the student’s fourth year (third year, for students entering the program with the M.A. degree in hand). Joint M.A. Program in Philosophy and Theology Joint M.A. Program in Philosophy and Theology This M.A. program is administered jointly between the Philosophy and Theology departments and is structured around distinct concentrations addressing major areas of common concern, such as faith and science, philosophy and religion, foundations in Philosophy and Theology, and Medieval Philosophy and Theology. The degree program has two directors representing each department. Students develop a program of study in discussion with an academic advisor and take courses in the standard graduate programs offered by the Philosophy and Theology departments. Law and Philosophy Dual Degree Program Law and Philosophy Dual Degree Program These programs are designed for students who have an interest in philosophy of law, legal theory and jurisprudence, and who may eventually wish to go into legal practice or teaching in those fields. Students may complete their master’s in philosophy and law degree in four years of joint study or Ph.D. and law degree in seven. Students must apply to both Boston College Law School and master’s or Ph.D. program in Boston College Philosophy Department and be admitted in both. The Lonergan Institute The Lonergan Institute Studies related to the work of Jesuit theologian and philosopher Bernard Lonergan (1904–1984) are sponsored by the Lonergan Institute at Boston College. The Institute supports the renowned Lonergan Workshop and other conferences, scholarship assistance, and operates the Lonergan Center, a center for research with an extensive collection of published and unpublished works. For more information, refer to the Research Centers in the About Boston College section of this catalog or to the website: bc.edu/lonergan. Back To Top Back To Top Managed By University Catalog Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College