Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Programs and Policies The Learning Commons provides centralized academic and skill-building supports for all University of Cincinnati students. All of our services are free and open to all students! Academic Coaching Academic Writing Center Learning Assistants Learning Communities Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Supplemental Instruction Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Observation Notice The Learning Commons observes our student-staff members to ensure that students are receiving the highest quality support within the Learning Commons. To disrupt your appointment/session as little as possible, the University records selected sessions with Learning Commons Peer Educators. This may include sessions, among others, in the Learning Commons main office, individual tutoring/coaching rooms, the MASS Center, the Academic Writing Center, or Supplemental Instruction/Supplemental Review Session classrooms. These recordings are made only by the Learning Commons professional staff, program mentors, and student staff to provide for staff evaluations or staff training and any recording will not be reproduced, edited, or viewed by individuals who do not have a direct interest in the performance of the Learning Commons employee being evaluated. BY PARTICIPATING IN THE LEARNING COMMONS SESSION OR PROGRAM, YOU CONSENT TO BEING RECORDED. SHOULD YOU NOT CONSENT TO BEING RECORDED, PLEASE NOTIFY THE LEARNING COMMONS STAFF AND YOU WILL NOT BE RECORDED. No Show Policy The Learning Commons has the following No-Show Policy: Students must cancel all appointments at least 24 hours in advance. Students who cancel within 24 hours, arrive 10 or more minutes late, or fail to attend will receive a No-Show status for their workshop or appointment. Two No-Show statuses will result in a block from appointment-based services and workshops until the student meets with a professional staff member. Scheduling rights will be reinstated once the student has met with a Learning Commons staff member. Any future appointments scheduled at the time of receiving a second No-Show will be canceled. Three No-Show statuses will result in a block from appointment-based services and workshops until the end of the semester. By scheduling an appointment for any Learning Commons service, you acknowledge that you have read and understand the Learning Commons No Show policy. Weather Policy If the University has declared inclement weather, all appointment-based programs will switch to online appointments and non-appointment programs will be canceled: Continuing as Online Appointments: Academic Coaching Academic Writing Center Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Canceled: Learning Assistants Learning Communities MASS Center Supplemental Instruction Supplemental Review Sessions If there is a shelter in-place warning, all services will be canceled. For questions about Clifton campus services, call (513) 556-3244 or email LearningCommons@uc.edu. For questions about Clermont campus services, call (513) 558-8319 or email UCCLearningCommons@uc.edu. Homework Policy The Learning Commons focuses on creating independent learners and making sure you understand the concepts necessary for you to complete your work and excel in a course. Remember – your homework is a way to prepare for your exams. By helping you to understand the concepts in your course, your Peer Educator is preparing you to complete your homework on your own. And if you’re able to complete your homework independently, then you’ll know that you’ll be prepared for your exam! If at any point you find yourself struggling with your homework and the concepts, be sure to visit us again. It is important to know that none of our services provides homework help, but you can bring in assignments that are already graded to review the problems or concepts you missed. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top