Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index International Affairs Menu Search TTU International Affairs Current J-1 International Student J-2 Dependent J-2 Dependent Status A J-1 Exchange Visitor's spouse and children may be eligible for J-2 status. Other family members are not eligible for J-2 status. Persons in J-2 status can enroll in school and are eligible to apply to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for employment authorization. J-2 dependents are issued a form DS-2019 in their name. The Office of International Affairs issues DS-2019 documents for bringing dependents of J-1's who are on the Texas Tech Exchange Visitor Program. Exchange Visitors who wish to bring dependents must provide documentation of J-1 status, documentation of financial responsibility for themselves and their dependents, and biographical information on each dependent. A J-2 Dependent Information form is available on this webpage. J-1's on other programs must consult with the Responsible Officer of their program concerning bringing dependents to the United States. With a DS-2019 issued for entry of J-2 dependents, the family members can apply for J-2 visas at a U.S. consulate. They must be prepared to provide financial evidence, documentation of the family relationship, and evidence of intent to return home after being in the U.S. Approval of J-2 visa applications is not guaranteed simply by the fact that the J-1 spouse or parent is in the United States. With the DS-2019 and J-2 visas, the family members are eligible to come to the U.S. Upon arrival in the U.S., the family members are required to report to the Office of International Affairs with their immigration documents. Current address information for J-2 dependents must be maintained with the Office of International Affairs just as it is for J-1 exchange visitors. Department of State regulations require persons in J-2 status to maintain health, repatriation and evacuation insurance. Questions should be directed to the Scholars Counselor at the OIA at (806) 742-3667. J-1 and J-2 Dependent Community and Campus Resource Page For resources and information regarding the TTU campus and community, please visit the International Scholar and Faculty Resources page J-2 Dependent Employment Persons in J-2 Dependent status are eligible to apply to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for employment authorization. The wages from the J-2's employment cannot be used to support the J-1 Exchange Visitor. Applications from J-2 dependents in Lubbock are filed with the Texas Service Center of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). When approved the J-2 will receive an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) card, INS form I-766. With this card, the J-2 can work part-time or full-time, at any job, for any employer within the dates of validity on the card. EAD cards are issued for one year or until the program end date on the J-2's form DS-2019, whichever is shorter. An EAD card can also be used to show eligibility for a Social Security Number. USCIS may take 60 to 90 days or more to process the application for employment authorization. A J-2 can only work during periods when he or she has an EAD. Although a J-2 can apply for an extension and a new card by following the same application procedures as the first time, there is no guarantee that the new card will be received before the expiration of the first card. There is no extension of employment authorization until the new card with the new validity dates is received. Application Procedures: Complete an immigration form I-765, "Application for Employment Authorization" showing "(c)(5)( )" in item 27. In Part 1 the address should be your home address. A copy of any previously issued EAD cards. Two color passport photos taken within the last thirty days, with a white background. A copy the J-2's and J-1's forms I-94. A copy of the J-1's and J-2's form DS-2019. A $410 check or money order payable to "DHS." A letter from the J-2 to the USCIS requesting employment authorization, telling why the J-2 wishes to work, and stating that money from the employment will not be used to support the J-1 spouse. Mail applications to the following address: USCIS Dallas Lockbox For U.S. Postal Service (USPS): USCIS P.O. Box 660867 Dallas, TX 75266 For FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries: USCIS Attn: NFB AOS 2501 S. State Hwy. 121 Business Suite 400 Lewisville, TX 75067 J-2 Dependent Travel The Form DS-2019 can be used by dependents to obtain J-2 visas from overseas U.S. consulates, and for entry into the United States. In using the DS-2019 the following rules should be observed. Upon entry or re-entry into the United States, copies of all immigration documents should be provided to the Office of International Affairs (OIA). OIA should be notified of any plans for future travel by a J-2 outside the United States. A Form DS-2019 that is not used must be returned to OIA within 90 days. OIA should be notified of the final departure of a J-2 from the United States including the date of departure and port of exit. Appropriate Health, Repatriation, and Evacuation Insurance must be maintained on all J-2 family members while they are in the United States. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents International Affairs Like International Affairs on FacebookLike International Affairs on Facebook Follow International Affairs on twitterFollow International Affairs on twitter Subscribe to International Affairs on YouTubeSubscribe to International Affairs on YouTube Follow International Affairs on FlickrFollow International Affairs on Flickr Follow International Affairs on InstagramFollow International Affairs on Instagram Address 601 Indiana Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409-5004 Phone 806.742.3667 Email oia.reception@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 9, 2022 8:14 AM International Affairs International Students International Affairs International Students Back Admitted international students International Affairs International Students Admitted international students Back Visa Process Housing Health Insurance Pre-Arrival Guide Post-Arrival Checklist Immigration Information International Affairs International Students Immigration Information Back Immigration and Scam Alerts Make an Appointment F1 - Health Insurance F1 - Travel F1 - Employment Your F-1 Student Counselor Other F-1 Services and Processes OPT STEM OPT CPT J1 - Health Insurance J1 - Travel J1 - Employment J1 - Dependents International Student Life International Affairs International Students International Student Life Back Our Services to Incoming Students International Orientation Life in Lubbock Lubbock housing options Events hosted by ISL Get Involved Advice from current students Financial Aid for International Students Scams Against International Student FAQ's Study Abroad International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Back J-1 Exchange Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni J-1 Exchange Visitors Back J-1 Program Information Hosting Department Information International Scholar Resources Make an Appointment/ISSS International Partnerships/Export Control Insurance Requirements Travel Dependents Help with Taxes International Alumni International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni International Alumni Back International Alumni Networks Give to Office of International Affairs Update Contact Information Contact Office of International Affairs Employing International Visitors International Affairs International Faculty, Scholars & Alumni Employing International Visitors Back H-1B Work Visa Information Permanent Residency Information Labor Certification for Non-Teaching Faculty Hosting Department Information Visitor Visas Paying International Visitors Fullbright Scholars & Students Make an Appointment International Scholar Resources J-1 Student Intern Information International Partnerships/Exports Help with Taxes Community Outreach & Events International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Back Community Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Community Outreach Back Art Exhibits Signature Events K-12 Global Education Outreach International Affairs Community Outreach & Events K-12 Global Education Outreach Back Mission Program Options Program Reservations K-12 Geo FAQ's Pre/Post Activities Give to K-12 ICC Facility Rental International Affairs Community Outreach & Events ICC Facility Rental Back Room Rental Information ICC Rules & Regulations Directions Passport Office International Affairs Community Outreach & Events Passport Office Back Passport Office Information Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Back Faculty/Staff Resources International Affairs Faculty/Staff Resources Faculty/Staff Resources Back Center for Global Communication International Research and Development International Center for Arid and Semi-Arid Land Studies International Partnerships and Export Control Global Roundup Fulbright International Travel Information International Seed Funding Hosting International Students Scholarships International Affairs Scholarships Back First Year & Transfer Students Continuing Students Study Abroad Students National and International Scholarships & Fellowships About Office International Affairs About Office Back The Office of International Affairs International Affairs About Office The Office of International Affairs Back About Us Vice Provost OIA Services and Contact Information Directory Strategic Plan Organizational Chart OIA Year in Review Visitors Guide Visitors Guide - Español News and Events International Affairs About Office News and Events Back International Digest OIA News OIA Events Recent Newsletter Newsletter Archive Media Gallery International Affairs About Office Media Gallery Back Photos Videos Give to OIA International Affairs About Office Give to OIA Back Appeal from the Vice Provost International Affairs Fund for Excellence International Affairs Student Scholarship OIA Committees International Affairs About Office OIA Committees Back Scholarships International Affairs Council Fulbright Information Special Initiatives International Affairs About Office Special Initiatives Back Global Vision Awards Leadership, Management and Governance Program Texas Tech Costa Rica Campus Texas Tech Global Bridge program Mandela Washington Fellowship Ambassadors Forum Contact Us Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index