Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Referral for Off-Campus Mental Health Treatment Referral for Off-Campus Mental Health Treatment Counseling and Psychological Services is Columbia students’ first stop for short-term individual counseling. We are also pleased to be of assistance to students not currently being seen at CPS who are seeking specialized or longer term care off campus. For assistance with a referral to an off-campus resource, you need only arrange a Social Work Consultation. Social work consultations are scheduled at your convenience and are intended to expedite access to off-campus resources. This service is available to students who have paid the Columbia Health and Related Services Fee. Students enrolled in the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan require a CPS referral before accessing benefits. That referral can be generated during a social work consultation session. We are also often able to assist students on other insurance plans to locate a provider who accepts their insurance. How to request a referral Call CPS at 212-854-2878. To expedite the process when speaking with the receptionist, please be sure to specify your interest in a “Social Work Consultation” for assistance with referral, as these appointments are scheduled differently than other CPS appointments. What to expect during a social work consultation appointment You will meet with a social worker at the scheduled appointment time. Appointments are usually 30 minutes. The social worker will discuss your treatment goals and preferences, as well as your insurance coverage, and refer you, if at all possible, to a recommended mental health provider or clinic that meets your particular needs. CPS social workers may also be able to direct you to other useful resources on- or off-campus, as needed. While our goal is to connect you to an appropriate community resource as quickly as possible, please note that it sometimes requires several meetings to do so because the availability of individual providers and clinics varies with time of year, your particular insurance coverage, and a variety of other factors. Making an off-campus appointment Once you receive a referral, please contact the provider directly to set up a meeting. Be sure to have your insurance information handy when make your first appointment. If you are on the Columbia Plan, you may click here to download your insurance card. You will need your UNI and date of birth. After your off-campus appointment We want to ensure that you get connected, so you can generally expect to receive a follow up secure message from CPS some time after you complete your Social Work consultation. If you’ve encountered any difficulties in accessing recommended resources, let us know! We remain available to help. Please consider taking an anonymous brief survey we will send by secure message some weeks after your consultation. Your feedback helps us to provide the best possible service! Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Health Unit Counseling and Psychological Services Clinical Specialty Counseling Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close