Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Academics Research Patient Care Campuses Kansas City Salina Wichita Outreach About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors School of Medicine Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Medicine Academics Academics Degree Programs Departments Residents & Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars Premedical Programs Research Research Centers and Institutes Kansas Center for Rural Health Research Cores Training Research News Patient Care Patient Care Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education Campuses Campuses Kansas City Salina Wichita Related Links: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Campus Life Outreach Outreach K-12 Programs Prospective Student Programs Current Student Programs Related Links: Diversity and Inclusion Premedical Programs Health Care Pipeline Programs Rural Medical Education About About Leadership Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Policies & Procedures Campus Life History Accreditation Maps & Directions KU Medicine Magazine Faculty Affairs & Development Make a Gift KU School of Medicine Campus Locations Kansas City, Wichita or Salina. Urban, suburban or rural. Students pursuing a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) from the KU School of Medicine have three possible campus locations. Kansas City Salina Wichita KU School of Medicine University of Kansas Medical Center School of Medicine 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-5000 KU Medical Center School of Health Professions School of Nursing Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.