skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Parent & family resources Links to campus resources to ensure you feel welcome and part of the University family Costs, tuition and fees Housing and dining rates Make a payment Financial aid, scholarships, grants and loans Undergraduate student admissions Virtual campus visit COVID-19 policies and information for students We all have part to play in keeping the Pack healthy. Each of us must take personal responsibility for things we can control: COVID-19 self-education, wearing face coverings, personal hygiene (hand washing) and following University policies and procedures and self-monitoring for COVID-19 symptoms. Get your COVID-19 vaccine Free COVID-19 vaccinations are available through the Student Health Center. Call (775) 784-6598 to schedule your appointment. The scheduling tool is a statewide platform for appointments in Nevada. Vaccine appointments can also be made using Washoe County’s portal, or with other community providers. More information on vaccinations COVID-19 testing The Student Health Center is offering free daily COVID-19 testing from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday-Friday, to students, faculty and staff. No appointment necessary. Bring your NSHE ID number and complete a registration form prior to testing. Free testing is also offered through the Washoe County Health District. More information on testing Face coverings Based upon legal guidance provided by NSHE, our University is lifting our campus mask mandate effective immediately. Pursuant to Nevada law, NSHE employees, students and members of the public are no longer required to wear face coverings while inside NSHE buildings irrespective of vaccination status. COVID-19 vaccinations, positive tests or close encounters What do students do if they experience COVID-19 symptoms, exposure or a positive test? Students must stay home or leave work immediately if COVID-19-like symptoms develop. You are encouraged to call your health care provider for an assessment and possible COVID-19 testing. Fully vaccinated individuals should still get tested if experiencing COVID-19 like symptoms. What should students do if they test positive for COVID-19 and are symptomatic? If you have a positive test, you are encouraged to fill out a COVID-19 reporting form to assist with contact tracing. Based on CDC guidelines, individuals who test positive for COVID-19, regardless of vaccination status, must self-isolate for five days. If no symptoms are present or if symptoms are resolving after five days, the individual can end self-isolation. However, a mask must be worn indoors and outdoors when around other people for five days after isolation ends regardless of vaccination status. “Resolving symptoms” means at least 24 hours has passed with no fever and without fever-reducing medicine; and other symptoms are improving. View CDC guidance on isolation, quarantine, and testing for people who are fully vaccinated or for people who are not fully vaccinated. A student is fully vaccinated and tested positive for COVID-19, but are asymptomatic. What should they do? Fully vaccinated students must quarantine whether or not they are symptomatic. View CDC guidance for people who are fully vaccinated. A student is not vaccinated and was diagnosed with COVID-19, but are aysmptomatic. What should they do? Individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 who are asymptomatic should stay home and self-isolate for five days after their positive test. Based on CDC guidelines, individuals who test positive for COVID-19, regardless of vaccination status, must self-isolate for five days. If no symptoms are present or if symptoms are resolving after five days, the individual can end self-isolation. However, a mask must be worn indoors and outdoors when around other people for five days after isolation ends regardless of vaccination status. "Resolving symptoms” means at least 24 hours has passed with no fever and without fever-reducing medicine; and other symptoms are improving. View CDC guidance for people who are not fully vaccinated. A fully vaccinated student has had close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19. Do they need to quarantine? If you have a positive test, you are encouraged to fill out a COVID-19 reporting form to assist with contact tracing. You are not required to quarantine if you: Have been boosted; OR Completed the primary series of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine within the last six months; OR Completed the primary series of J&J vaccines within the last two months. If you meet the above criteria, you are advised to: Wear a mask around others for ten days. Test on day five. For the ten days following your last contact with someone with COVID-19, watch for symptoms including fever, cough, shortness of breath, and other COVID-19 symptoms. If you develop symptoms, get tested immediately and self-isolate until after you receive your results. If positive, your new Day Zero is the date you developed symptoms. You are required to quarantine if you: Completed the primary series of Pfizer or Moderna vaccine over 6 months ago and are not boosted; OR Completed the primary series of J&J over two months ago and are not boosted; OR Are unvaccinated. Quarantine guidance: The date of your exposure is considered Day Zero. Quarantine for at least five days after your last contact with a person who has had COVID-19. For ten days after your last contact with someone with COVID-19, watch for symptoms including fever, cough, shortness of breath, and other COVID-19 symptoms and wear a mask. If you develop symptoms, get tested immediately and self-isolate until after you receive your results. If positive, stay home. View CDC guidance on when to quarantine. A non fully vaccinated student has had close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19. Must they quarantine? If you are not vaccinated, or it has been longer than six months since your COVID-19 vaccination and have not received a COVID-19 booster shot, you must self-isolate for five days if you have had close contact to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. View CDC guidance for people who are not fully vaccinated. What is the attendance policy for COVID-19 absences? For students who are required to quarantine or self-isolate due to 1) COVID 19 infection or 2) exposure while not vaccinated, instructors must provide opportunities to make-up missed course work, including assignments, quizzes or exams. In courses with mandatory attendance policies, instructors must not penalize students for missing classes while quarantined. For any absences, students should contact their instructor or faculty member directly. For more information regarding absences, review the Class Absence Policy in the University Administrative Manual. Can students attend remotely because of another student testing positive for COVID-19 in a class? Students will likely get notifications about positive cases in their classes. Classes will continue in the mode they were scheduled, unless the number of students testing positive for COVID during a period of time that surpasses a threshold in a class section, as determined by the Chief Medical Officer and Provost’s Office, that warrants a class section being temporarily taught remotely. Are non-vaccinated students who quarantine because of possible exposure allowed to be accommodated by faculty? Yes, quarantining for a close contact exposure (less than 6 feet for more than fifteen minutes) should be accommodated for unvaccinated students. However, if the only exposure is from notification about a positive case in a classroom, it is difficult to consider that a close contact unless there is a seating chart. A non-vaccinated student doesn't know if they have had close contact with another student who tested positive for COVID-19. If the non-vaccinated student does not have symptoms, can they still come to class? Since it is difficult to determine whether someone has had close contact (less than 6 feet for more than 15 minutes) in a classroom setting, unvaccinated students are advised to get a COVID-19 test. They can continue to come to class if they are asymptomatic. Who looks after the welfare of students who lives in the residence halls and tests positive for COVID-19? The University’s Residential Life team will look after students who quarantined. Each quarantine room will include furniture, a refrigerator, microwave, toilet paper, trash bags and bottled water. Nevada Dining will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner that will be delivered to their rooms. The University will also offer these students resources including counseling and emotional support, as well as outlets to connect with other students in similar circumstances. The Residential Life team will provide building safety and security, and make the stay as comfortable of an experience as possible. If I test positive for COVID-19 at a site other than the Student Health Center, should I self-report the result to the University? Yes. Self-reporting a positive test can help the University mitigate the spread of COVID-19 by ensuring that the surveillance/contact tracing process begins as soon as possible. If you test positive at a testing site other than the Student Health Center, please complete the voluntary online Reporting Form For Confirmed Cases of COVID-19 or provide consent to someone to submit it for you. Connect with us Speak to an admissions coordinator Our team of admissions coordinators are here to answer any questions you may have, from financial aid to housing, enrollment to applying. Find your admissions coordinator Follow Nevada Admissions for more information Take a tour of campus Book an in-person tour Join us for a guided, 90-minute tour of the beautiful and historic University of Nevada, Reno campus. Our staff can answer questions and take you through the University's 290-acre campus, providing details about the University. Register for your tour Take an interactive tour Get to know the University of Nevada, Reno campus, learning about points of interest -- from the Joe Crowley Student Union to the Pennington Student Achievement Center — using our self-guided, interactive tour. Start your interactive tour Academic resources Academic Advising Assists students to develop and implement an academic plan to meet their education, career and life goals. Math Center Offers a range of tutoring services, review sessions and resources (e.g., computer lab) to help students with math. University Testing Center Provides a secure, technologically advanced testing facility for University, students and staff. Tutoring Center Provides a range of tutoring services, including free one-on-one appointments, Nevada PASS sessions, walk-in labs and weekly small group sessions. Writing and Speaking Center Support students through every stage of writing, from development to completion, through online and in-person consultations. Need assistance? Contact mynevada@unr.edu for more information. Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX