Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events > CUIMC Grand Rounds Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni CUIMC Grand Rounds The four deans of the schools at Columbia University Irving Medical Center launched the CUIMC Grand Rounds in 2021 to provide a forum for formal scholarly exchanges across schools and disciplines at the medical center. The CUIMC Grand Rounds will be held quarterly to bring together students, educators, researchers, and clinicians in the spirit of intellectual curiosity and academic cooperation. The inaugural CUIMC Grand Rounds took place on March 1, 2021 and featured David D. Ho, MD. Upcoming Grand Rounds Wednesday, January 26, 2022 "Longevity Research and the Clinic: the geroscience hypothesis" Eric Verdin, MD Featuring Eric Verdin, MD President and CEO The Buck Institute for Research on Aging Biography Dr. Verdin is president and chief executive officer of the Buck Institute for Research on Aging. The Buck Institute, located in the San Francisco Bay Area, is globally recognized as the pioneer and leader in the field of research on aging, the No. 1 risk factor for chronic disease. A native of Belgium, Dr. Verdin received his MD degree from the University of Liege and completed additional clinical and research training at Harvard Medical School. He has held faculty positions at the University of Brussels, the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Gladstone Institute at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF). Dr. Verdin is currently adjunct professor of medicine at UCSF and adjunct professor at the University of Southern California (USC). Dr. Verdin studies how metabolism, diet, and small molecules impact epigenetic regulatory mechanisms and, thereby, the aging process and its associated diseases. He is a highly cited scientist and has been recognized for his research with multiple awards including a fellowship from the American Association for the Advancement of Science and election to the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Association of American Physicians, and Belgium’s Royal Academy of Medicine. Following Dr. Verdin’s presentation, he’ll be joined in conversation with Linda Fried, MD, MPH Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health Director of the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center View Biography Event Details Virtual webinar: Wednesday, January 26, 2022 4:30 p.m. EST This activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ Register to attend virtually This event is being presented with the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health in celebration of its centennial. For 100 years, it has been building a healthy and just world. For more information, please visit: https://www.publichealth.columbia.edu/centennial Previous Grand Rounds October 27, 2021 "Infection Prevention and Control in Nursing Homes" Pat W. Stone, PhD, RN, FAAN, CIC Featuring Pat W. Stone, PhD, RN, FAAN, CIC Centennial Professor of Health Policy Director of the Center for Health Policy Columbia University School of Nursing Biography Dr. Stone is the Centennial Professor of Health Policy in the Columbia University School of Nursing. She directs the School of Nursing’s Center for Health Policy and the NIH-funded Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with Multiple Chronic Conditions. For the past two decades, most of her research has focused on the prevention of infections in vulnerable adults across health care settings. Since 2010, she has led an interdisciplinary team that has conducted multiple NIH and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)-funded studies examining nursing home capacity for infection prevention. These mixed methods studies use multiple data sources including national surveys linked to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services data (i.e., Minimum Data Set and Medicare Claims) and the CDC’s National Healthcare Safety Network data. Her team also has engaged nursing home stakeholders and conducted qualitative interviews. The results of these studies have informed national regulations for nursing homes to have trained infection preventionists. Because many nursing home residents have serious illness, Dr. Stone is also interested in the integration of infection management and palliative care at the end-of-life. She is the current editor-in-chief of the American Journal of Infection Control and an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine. April 22, 2021 "Pandemic Preparedness: A Public Health Perspective" Featuring panelists Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA University Professor Dr. Mathilde Krim-amfAR Professor of Global Health (in Epidemiology) Director, ICAP at Columbia University View Biography W. Ian Lipkin, MD John Snow Professor of Epidemiology Professor of Neurology and of Pathology & Cell Biology Director, Center for Infection and Immunity View Biography Jeffrey Shaman, PhD Professor of Environmental Health Sciences (in the International Research Institute for Climate and Society/Earth Institute) Director, Climate and Health Program View Biography Moderated by Linda Fried, MD, MPH DeLamar Professor of Public Health Practice Professor of Epidemiology and of Medicine Dean, Mailman School of Public Health Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center View Biography cuimc_grand_rounds_panel_on_pandemic_preparedness_-_4.22.21 March 1, 2021 "Increased Resistance of New Circulating SARS-CoV-2 Variants to Antibody Neutralization" Featuring David D. Ho, MD Clyde ’56 and Helen Wu Professor of Medicine Director, Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center Director, Wu Family China Center View Profile Biography of David D. Ho, MD Dr. Ho is the Clyde’56 and Helen Wu Professor of Medicine, founding scientific director of the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, and director of the Wu Family China Center for Health Initiatives at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. He received degrees from California Institute of Technology and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Ho has been at the forefront of AIDS research for 39 years, publishing over 400 papers. His elegant studies unraveled the dynamic nature of HIV replication in vivo and revolutionized our basic understanding of a disease that took the lives of so many. He championed combination antiretroviral therapy that resulted in unprecedented management of HIV in patients, transforming a disease that meant almost certain death into a chronic condition for more than 25 million individuals worldwide. His research team is now devoting considerable effort to vaccine and antibody research directed at halting or slowing the spread of AIDS. After working on the SARS virus, he has turned his work now to developing drugs and antibodies to fight the new coronavirus. Dr. Ho has received 14 honorary doctorates, including one from Columbia University. He was named Time Magazine’s Man of the Year in 1996 and received a Presidential Citizen Medal in 2001. He was inducted into the California Hall of Fame, recognized by the Kingdom of Thailand with the Prince Mahidol Award in Medicine, and given the Distinguished Alumni Award by Caltech. He is a member of the National Academy of Medicine as well as the Chinese Academy of Engineering. cuimc_grand_rounds_march_1_2021 CUIMC Grand Rounds Hosts CUIMC Grand Rounds will be hosted by the deans of the four CUIMC schools: Lorraine Frazier, PhD, RN, FAAN Dean, School of Nursing Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Linda Fried, MD, MPH Dean, Mailman School of Public Health Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Anil K. Rustgi, MD Interim Executive Vice President and Dean of the Faculties of Health Sciences and Medicine Christian Stohler, DMD, DrMedDent Dean, College of Dental Medicine Senior Vice President, Columbia University Irving Medical Center Contact Us For questions regarding CUIMC Grand Rounds, please contact cumc_event_office@cumc.columbia.edu. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top