Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. Patents are arguably one of the most tangible measures of innovation. As one of U.S. News & World Report’s top-ranked schools for innovation, UCF is also No. 25 among public universities in the nation for producing patents, according to the National Academy of Inventors and the Intellectual Property Owners Association’s most recent reports. “Steady growth of UCF’s research base, inventions, patents and industry licensing partnerships feeds our economic ecosystem, which brings not only financial benefit to UCF but also solidifies our place as a top-tier research institution,” says Elizabeth Klonoff, vice president for Research and dean of the College of Graduate Studies. “Doing our part means we benefit the local community and the society at large by contributing to technological advancements that improve people’s lives and drive the economy.” With 46 patents secured in 2020, here are just a few of the inventions and technologies developed at UCF. Drug Characterization for FDA Lead researcher: Associate Professor Debashis Chanda, NanoScience Technology Center Being able to see the molecular mirror images of drugs, proteins, DNA and other molecules — left versus right twisted — at low detection levels is crucial in the Food and Drug Administration’s approval process. This is because variations in molecular twists can cause toxic or severe side effects. Through a new method developed at UCF, these molecular mirror images can be detected at lower levels than conventional systems. Combination Drug Treatment to Treat Neurological Disorders Lead researcher: Professor of Medicine Kiminobu Sugaya Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease, are difficult to treat. A combination therapy related to a UCF invention has shown increased stem cells in the brain and new neuron productions, which improved performance in memory tasks in mice. The treatment uses the drug NBI-18, which increases endogenous neural stem cells, and phenserine, which reduces the production of toxic amyloid plaques in the brain. High-power Lasers Lead researcher: Associate Professor Arkadiy Lyakh, NanoScience Technology Center From imaging to defense, lasers serve a wide range of purposes. This invention relates to new quantum cascade lasers that provide the ultrahigh output power, brightness and beam quality needed for applications such as hyperspectral imaging, infrared illumination and military countermeasures that protect aircraft against shoulder-fired heat-seeking missiles. Contamination Tracking in Wetland Environments Lead researcher: Professor Ni-Bin Chang, Department of Civil, Environmental and Construction Engineering Tracking the movement of nutrients, metals, sediments and other contamination in slow-moving water is challenging. This cost-efficient system, which is equipped with wireless communication units, relates to two velocity-measuring devices to assess low-flow velocity and direction of water more accurately in both wetland environments and wells. Eco-friendly Targeted Removal of Fire Ants Lead researcher: Associate Professor of Biology Joshua King Aiming to remove pests such as fire ants and termites without the use of pesticides, this hot-water system removes ground-dwelling insects. This system uses a wand connected to a water heating tank to apply large volumes of boiling water to a targeted area. The technology is especially useful for areas unsuitable for chemical baits or mound treatments, such as parks and wildlife preserves. By Zenaida Gonzalez Kotala Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Not Your Average Students Why I Believe in Medical City Deep Dive More from the Spring 2022 Issue Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816