Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Updates & Community Messages COVID-19 Considerations at Commencement Dear Members of the Harvard Community, I am writing with public health guidance directed in particular to those attending commencement-related events. COVID-19 transmission is rated as “high” in Boston and Cambridge. Please use this knowledge as you plan your commencement activities. Get tested every day that you have a scheduled event, even if you are not experiencing symptoms. Rapid antigen tests are widely available at area pharmacies. Harvard’s Color PCR testing is still available. We encourage those enrolled in this program to continue using it, in addition to rapid tests. If you test positive, do not attend commencement events during your isolation period. After testing positive, adhere to the 5-day home isolation guidance. For the full 10 days, follow strict masking and do not drink or dine in proximity to other people. Visit the Keep Harvard Healthy website for more information. If you have symptoms, no matter how mild, please do not attend commencement events – even if you test negative. For indoor and crowded outdoor events, wear a high-quality mask that fits securely without air gaps around your nose and mouth. See mask guidance here. If attending events that involve unmasking to eat or drink, minimize any unmasked mingling and mask up whenever you can. We know that commencement is an important milestone and celebration for all our graduates and their loved ones. However, we do ask that you are mindful of those in our community who may be at a higher risk for complications if they are exposed to COVID-19. If you do have to miss attending in person, the commencement live stream can be accessed here. Thank you all for continuing to be diligent in following public health guidelines as they evolved throughout the past two years. As always, we will continue to monitor COVID-19 and update you with any changes when necessary. Best wishes and congratulations to all of our graduates! Giang T. Nguyen Executive Director, Harvard University Health Services Published on May 23, 2022 Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Copy the link Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube