Skip to content Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Find People Events Global Health Donate Search About Us About Us Explore VP&S Message from the Dean VP&S History Celebrating the Leadership of Lee Goldman Facts & Statistics 2021 State of the School Explore VP&S Leadership and Administration Campus Resources and Facilities Events Community Programs Contact Us Education Education Academic Programs Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Student Resources Office of Innovation in Health Professions Education Academic Programs MD Program MD Dual Degrees and Special Programs Program in Genetic Counseling Programs in Human Nutrition Programs in Occupational Therapy Programs in Physical Therapy PhDs in Biomedical Sciences Additional Master's Degree Programs Additional Educational Opportunities MD Program Join our MD program to become a physician with compassion, a sense of self, and true grit in all medical pursuits. Explore Our Program Research Research Office for Research Areas of Research Research Faculty Honors and Awards For Researchers For Researchers Core and Shared Facilities Research Resources Funding Areas of Research VP&S continues to be a world leader across the entire spectrum of basic science, translational, and clinical research Learn About Our Research Patient Care Departments & Centers Departments & Centers Affiliated Hospitals and Institutions Basic Science Departments Centers and Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Faculty Initiatives Clinical Departments and Divisions Our mission is to provide world-class patient care, foster innovative research, and train the next generation of leaders in medicine. View Clinical Departments and Divisions You are here Home > Departments & Centers > Department of Radiation Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Message from the Chair Our Faculty About the Department of Radiation Oncology Education Patient Care Research Department of Radiation Oncology Welcome to the Department of Radiation Oncology at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center. We look forward to serving your needs. Cancer care is complex and creating your individualized health care plan is important to us. Along with offering cutting edge cancer care in radiation treatment, we understand that everyone's health care needs are unique and it is important to work as a team. At Columbia, we offer specialists in every field of medicine and we work with them to offer comprehensive personalized care, not only at the Medical Center, but also in our community at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, NY, and Hudson Valley Hospital in Cortland Manor, New York. At Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), we are at the forefront of cancer care and radiation treatment. CUIMC is the home of the prestigious Center for Radiological Research (CRR), our nation's largest and most experienced university-based research center for radiation biology, where world-renowned doctors and scientists strive to move cancer treatment forward through focused research into the uses and biological effects of ionizing radiation. We firmly believe that along with technological advancement, the compassionate care delivered every day by our dedicated physicians and staff is one of our greatest assets. We strive to make each patient's unique experience positive and supportive. We welcome you to our facility where we will provide the optimal treatment and care plan for you. Message from the Chair A message from Lisa A. Kachnic, MD, FASTRO, Professor and Chair of Radiation Oncology. Message from the Chair About the Department of Radiation Oncology Learn about the mission, faculty, and initiatives at the Department of Radiation Oncology at CUIMC. About the Department of Radiation Oncology Education The department trains future radiation oncologists and medical physicists in fully-accredited training programs, and is also a training site for future radiation therapists. Education Patient Care Using a highly coordinated multidisciplinary approach, our experts in radiation and oncology collaborate with renowned surgeons and medical oncologists throughout the treatment process. Patient Care Research The Department of Radiation Oncology utilizes cutting edge technology and participation in clinical trials supported by basic and translational research to enhance treatment outcomes for our patients. Research Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About VP&S Careers Education Research Administration Inside VP&S Columbia University Irving Medical Center Vagelos College of Physicians & Surgeons 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Back to top