<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Layeeka Ismail MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Houston, TX Undergrad Education Texas A&M University, BBA, 2017 Previous Experience Islamic Community of Byran-College Station, Bain & Company HBS Activities HBS Islamic Society “I strive to be honest, kind, just, and fair to everyone regardless of their beliefs and backgrounds.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? From a professional standpoint, I knew I wanted to return back to Bain Houston after finishing my MBA and it made sense to pursue an MBA after my first three years at Bain. From a personal standpoint, my husband and I have always been long distance due to our jobs and knew we would do business school long distance, so we wanted to quickly wrap up our long distance phase before settling down together in the same city. Coming to HBS is like..." ...A dream! It’s so beautiful to walk around the HBS campus, Charles River, Harvard Square, and the city of Boston. The university and city have so much rich history and I can’t help but to think about the stories of the people who are here right now, as well as those who have walked in these paths before. I’m so grateful to be here. Being part of the HBS community is like..." ...being in the most amazing melting pot with people coming from different corners of the world with different experiences and perspectives, all of whom are passionate, driven, and mission-oriented / want to change the world. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? A doctor! My family really values education and I was always enamored with the idea of saving lives. “Operation” was one of my favorite childhood games. What is your favorite childhood memory? Because both of my parents worked full-time, Sundays were the day to meal prep for the week. My parents ran an assembly line and everyone had to be in the kitchen – my brother may have chopped the veggies, mom would be stirring the pots, dad would wash the meat, I would take care of the dishes. We absolutely hated it growing up (except at the end when we got to try the final product), but cooking is now a true passion for my brother and I (along with our parents). It’s where we still make most of our memories we all love trying new recipes and cooking for others. I really credit those Sunday kitchen days! Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? Definitely my mom. My mom came from a tough background in India, and she always had a dream to come to the US. She knew an education would get her here and she ended up pursing her PhD in India. At the end of her program she was ready to move to Canada for her postdoc, but she was pregnant with my older brother and my dad still needed a bit more time to finish his degree in India. Determined, my mom moved to Canada alone with her baby bump and “$5 in her pocket” (as she often reminds us) to continue her career and follow her dream. She finished the last trimester and delivered the baby alone (my father shortly joined after), but I appreciate that story as it reminds me how my parents lived out their American dream and the strength of my mom. She is the toughest person I know and has taught me so much about independence, determination, and dreaming big. I can’t believe she is my mom and hope I can have a fraction of the strength she has! What’s the best thing about your home town? Oh goodness – I love Texas and it’s so difficult to pick just one thing! I have to give you a few: first, the food (Tex-Mex, kolaches, brisket, you name it!); second, the beautiful blue skies and sunny weather; third, the southern charm, hospitality, and diversity – Houston is a beautiful melting pot and folks are truly so nice and friendly! Home Region Houston, TX Undergrad Education Texas A&M University, BBA, 2017 Previous Experience Islamic Community of Byran-College Station, Bain & Company HBS Activities HBS Islamic Society ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College