Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Literary Arts MFA school Graduate School department Literary Arts Inquire All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Financial Aid Completion Requirements Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location The Literary Arts graduate program offers tracks in fiction, poetry and digital/cross-disciplinary. Students take eight courses, half in writing and half in elective studies, over a two–year period to ensure maximum time for writing. In general, students take workshops with two and sometimes three different faculty writers in their respective genres. (Note: The MFA in Playwriting is offered by Theatre and Performance Studies.) Students often select electives such as workshops that focus on literary translation or on special topics (e.g., narrative strategies), but may also take studio and performing arts courses, and classes from all academic fields. A creative thesis is submitted in the final semester. The program numbers approximately twenty-five students in any given academic year. Additional Resources Performance-focused seminar room/laboratory; literary arts seminar room; Clerestory magazine; Writers on Writing reading series; writers in residence program; Geri Braman Hill Lecture; C.D. Wright Lecture, Hawkes, Honig and Waldrop Prizes in Literary Arts; John Hay Library's Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays. Admission Information Inquire Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Writing Sample: Required (must be in one genre). The writing sample is the most important part of the application. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 15, 2021 Financial Aid The Graduate School provides a Financial Aid package in the first year of study covering tuition, health fee and health insurance and a full fellowship stipend. In year two, those students who are in good standing and are appropriate for the classroom are offered a two-semester teaching assistantship, which covers tuition, health fee and health insurance, and provides a stipend. Completion Requirements Three courses in creative writing workshops, four graduate–level electives, and a thesis. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Department Chair John Cayley john_cayley@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies John Cayley john_cayley@brown.edu Contact and Location Literary Arts Program Mailing Address Brown University Box 1923 writing@brown.edu 401-863-3260 Visit the Literary Arts Program Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Literary Arts Open details for Literary Arts Bookmark this Page