Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar Cantorial School Admissions Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Apply Visit Contact Admissions Student Life Meet Cantorial School Alumni Qualifications Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships Admissions Overview H. L. Miller Cantorial School provides a strong foundation in liturgy, music, and Jewish studies—complemented by innovative approaches to prayer—all preparing students to shape joyful and soulful Jewish communities. Our curriculum brings together musical creativity and spirituality, historic texts, and cutting-edge professional training, with a focus on developing cantors who can meet the evolving needs of today’s Jewish communities. Students can take advantage of JTS’s unparalleled resources, pursuing advanced training in The Davidson School, the Gershon Kekst Graduate School, the Center for Pastoral Education, and the Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts. If you’re ready to share your passion for music and love of Judaism by becoming a hazzan, you will find the training and mentoring you need at H. L. Miller Cantorial School. Application Process and Deadlines Students interested in applying to H. L. Miller Cantorial School should arrange for a preliminary discussion six months to a year before their anticipated enrollment date. Find out more about contacting our admissions staff, completing the application, interviews and auditions, and more. Qualifications Application Process Academic Programs and Professional Training Learn about our flexible three-to-five-year curriculum, the Hazzan and MA diplomas, our dual-degree option, internship placements, and more. Academic Programs Professional Training Visit JTS The best way for interested students to get a feel for our school is to come visit. Find information about open house events, attending classes, joining a chorus practice, tours, and more. Register for a Visit Meet the Admissions Staff Student Life Students of H. L. Miller Cantorial School enjoy a vibrant campus culture. Learn about visits from cantors in the field, the chorus, campus events, and more. Student Life Tuition and Financial Aid H. L. Miller Cantorial School is committed to ensuring qualified students are able to finance their JTS education. Explore financial aid details, merit fellowships, and more. Tuition & Fees Financial Aid & Fellowships SHARE THIS PAGE Request Information from H. L. Miller Cantorial School We’ll send more details about our program and the admissions process directly to your inbox. First Name(Required) Last Name(Required) Email(Required) Phone Potential Enrollment Year Please Select One202120222023202420252026 Comments or Questions RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message