Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini Opportunities On this page At Yale In New Haven Outside the School Within the Yale School of Art All current prize, residency, and fellowship opportunities for SoA students can be found online here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Poster design by Daedalus Li, Graphic Design MFA ‘24. Royal Drawing School at Dumfries House (Fellowship/Residency) About: Artists’ residencies at Dumfries House are open to alumni and faculty of the Royal Drawing School, Scottish Artists and to applicants through our partner organizations, for whom drawing is part of their practice. The residencies are delivered by the Royal Drawing School, Glasgow School of Art and Dumfries House in conjunction with the Royal Drawing School’s international partners. Funded residencies are available throughout the year, and provide a private studio and self-catering accommodation on the Dumfries House estate for up to four artists at any one time. This is a unique opportunity for painters, textile and furniture designers, illustrators, practice-based researchers and applied artists who use drawing in their practice. The emphasis is on working from observation and the development of new work. Applications are closed for alumni, artists based in Scotland and international applicants. If you have any questions regarding the residency or your application please contact residencies@royaldrawingschool.org Additional Information: Regarding the Dumfries House opportunity, the residency allows for between two(2) and four(4) Yale students to spend 4 weeks each at Dumfries House, which is an estate in Scotland (the Royal Drawing School itself is based in London where the International Summer School is based). The estate facilitates a Royal Drawing School studio space which allows alumni from the Royal Drawing School to come and take part in a residency at the studios. Each summer we also open up the opportunity to US schools, one being Yale. The Dumfries House residency provides artists with a dedicated studio space, accommodation and free daily lunches, the residency is also self-directed giving the artists time to work and think in a wonderful surrounding. Alongside the artist are 3 other artists in residence, the artists are based in the same building and share accommodation, this allows them to network. Each year we open up the opportunity to two Yale students which are selected directly by Yale, the $2000 stipend (for flights and food) is funded by Yale and the time at Dumfries House (accommodation, studio and daily lunches) is funded by the Royal Drawing School. Award Details: Up to four students selected will receive tuition, travel, and accomodation Applying: Interested students should submit 5-15 hand drawn images, an artist statement, and a statement on how the artist will benefit from the experience at the RDS to their department by the deadlines outlined below. Eligibility: 2 - 4 1st year MFA students only (preference for students who incorporate drawing into their practice. (2nd-year students eligible for the 2021-22 academic year only) Application/Inquiry Deadline: (Painting) faculty committee votes on submissions to determine two nominees for painting department, submissions should be submitted via Box which will be setup by departmental admin/Painting internal deadline Monday, March 28th (submit here). (Photo) Proposals for this grant reviewed by core faculty, submissions should be submitted to Larissa/Photo internal deadline Monday, March 28th. (Graphic Design) AKE applications are to be given to Larissa who puts them in a file for Graphic Design faculty to read/Graphic Design internal deadline Monday, March 28th (submit here). (Sculpture) Full time faculty will vote on submissions. Sculpture internal deadline Monday, March 28th (submit here). Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Blair Dickinson Memorial Prize (Award) Deadline: Tuesday, April 12, 2022 Open only to Undergraduate or Graduate Women (or person who identifies as a woman) in their final year of study who have pursued studio art courses at SoA Submit here > About: The Blair Dickinson Memorial Prize shall be awarded at Commencement by the Yale University School of Art to an undergraduate or graduate woman (or individuals who identify as a woman) who has pursued studio art courses in the School including: graphic design, drawing, painting, photography, filmmaking, printmaking, sculpture, and video. The prize of $10,000 is open to enrolled art MFA and art major BA students in their final year of study. The prize seeks to encourage the individual whose whole person demonstrates a developing consciousness, a personal vision, and a spirit of search, regardless of whether she has evolved a concrete realization of that vision; an individual who shows promise of fulfilling Blair Dickinson’s (Yale College Class of 1974) concept of an artist as suggested by this passage from her journal: “Ability to find spiritually rich occurrences in the world. Observer. Critic. Isolator. One who points to a moment and reveals its importance. Ability to cross over between areas of thought and to ascend and descend.” Award Details: $10,000 prize Applying: All applications must be submitted electronically via Dropbox. This will work best if applicants upload a folder - this way your submission is already grouped and doesn’t need to be curated manually. All an applicant needs to do is make a folder on their desktop, move their images inside, and then drag the folder onto the upload window on Dropbox. Submission Requirements: Applicants must submit by April 8th, 2022 a one-page double-spaced 12-point typed statement of no more than 500 words describing their goals, their work, and the ideas it represents; an MP3 audio file of this statement that should run no more than 2 minutes (at the start of the audio file state your name and department); no more than 15 images of their work submitted electronically via the dropbox link (files should be labeled- Last Name, First Name, image #) and a hard-copy thumbnail inventory listing date, dimensions, medium and title, if any. If possible, the images should relate to the statement as the statement will be played to the jury as they are shown. In addition to still images, if work is time-based, a single Quick Time video no longer than one minute in length may be included at the end in place of the last three images (if movie or animation includes sound, label in this fashion: SOUND Title.mov). Images beyond the 15 and/or videos exceeding the time parameters allotted will be cropped or deleted. Total presentation time should not exceed three minutes (3) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Harvey Geiger Fellowship Fund (Travel/Research Grant) Deadline: March 28, 2022 Open to First-year Photography students only Submit here > About: $2,500 travel and research grant given annually to two (2) photography MFA students for their summer projects between their first and second year of the program Award Details: $2,500 travel and research grant given annually to two (2) photography MFA students for their summer projects between their first and second year of the program Submission Requirements: Submit travel/research proposal to Larissa through dropbox link, (same proposal as Alice Kimball) detailed travel proposal and include a separate page with a complete travel budget Application/Inquiry Deadline: Same application as Alice Kimball (see below) committee votes on submissions to determine two nominees for Photo department, submissions should be submitted via Box which will be setup by departmental admin/deadline Monday, March 28th. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody NOTE TO SCHOOL OF ART STAFF & FACULTY: Please edit this page here to add open work-study jobs and other SoA-related opportunities. Opportunities and open calls outside of the School of Art that you’d like to encourage students to apply to can be added to the “Outside the School” section below. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody At Yale CCAM seeks Design Brigade summer interns Become a Design Brigade summer intern at CCAM! The six-week program, now in its third year, welcomes applications from Yale graduate and upper-level students. This summer, students will design and fabricate an exhibition for the New Haven Dance History Project, an initiative spearheaded by the Yale Dance Lab that includes a diverse cross-section of the city’s dance community. Read the full internship description here. The Design Brigade Summer internship is an six-week student job for graduate and upper level students at The Center for Collaborative Arts and Media (CCAM). Design Brigade is a structured summer project to connect a team of interdisciplinary architecture and design students to community design challenges. A team made up of five Yale undergraduate and graduate students will research larger conceptual questions of changing social and cultural rituals and work towards built results in New Haven. Each team will be mentored by practicing designers and academics. By serving and working with community clients, students will develop design skills through real-world problem solving and will deliver plans that can be implemented. In the summer of 2022, Design Brigade students will design and fabricate an exhibition for the New Haven Dance History Project, an initiative spearheaded by the Yale Dance Lab that includes a diverse cross-section of the city’s dance community. Students will be asked to build upon the project’s research to conceptualize a multi-site exhibit to be launched in 2023. Students will carry out research, community engagement, client design presentations, and the fabrication of exhibition components. This Design Brigade project will draw on the strengths of its project collaborators: The Center for Collaborative Arts and Media (CCAM) will bring expertise in interdisciplinary design and local design studio Atelier Cho Thompson will bring resources in community-based design. The internship will begin on July 12, 2022 and conclude on August 19, 2022. Student will work 20 - 30 hours per week. The internship is not remote and all work will happen at CCAM. To Apply: Log into the Yale Student Employment site. Then search for Job ID “24571” and follow the instructions. Deadline: May 22, 2022. Applicants will be notified of decision by June 1, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Center for Engineering Innovation and Design: Call for Design Fellow starting Summer 2022 The Center for Engineering Innovation and Design (CEID) is a creative facility that enables and supports learning and innovation by providing resources, cutting-edge technologies and professional mentorship to members from all corners of Yale University. Design Fellows are an integral part of the CEID team and provide support on a variety of levels. Design Fellows develop and coordinate programming and events, offer technical guidance and equipment training, provide formal and informal support of CEID projects and courses, and are responsible for various administrative duties. They also help to ensure the CEID runs smoothly by managing our undergraduate Design Aides, who help maintain the space and serve as ‘student experts’ during the evenings. The Fellowship is an immersive and dynamic experience where Fellows grow professionally while simultaneously contributing to the programmatic and educational mission of the CEID. As such, in addition to various creative, technical and managerial responsibilities, Design Fellows are encouraged to use some of their time to develop skills and pursue professional interests. Some examples of these types of activities are engaging in research, technical skill development, creating a start-up venture, or participating in a Yale course. Applicants should be comfortable with a variety of design methodologies and/or engineering technologies and tools, and they should be excited about acquiring new skills on the job. Design Fellows play an essential role in CEID communications, so effective communication skills and comfort with basic graphic design and web-tools are important. The position requires a sense of curiosity, good organizational skills, dedication to craft, and a strong work ethic. Design Fellows will occasionally need to provide support for evening and weekend events. Applicants should hold a Bachelor’s or Master’s Degree in engineering, science, art, design or related fields, and are hired for a term not exceeding two years. To apply or inquire further about the positions write to ceid@yale.edu with “Design Fellow Position” in the subject line. Applications should include a cover letter, resume, college transcripts and a portfolio if relevant. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale University Art Gallery Education Department’s Jock Reynolds Fellowship in Public Programs The Jock Reynolds Fellowship in Public Programs is a full-time, one-year fellowship, with the possibility of renewal for a second year, intended for an emerging professional with an advanced degree who is considering a career in museum education or public programs and engagement. Yale University Art Gallery programs connect curricular, cocurricular, and community initiatives and interests through a range of in- person, virtual, and hybrid engagement opportunities. Reporting to the Associate Curator of Programs and working closely with colleagues and collaborators across Yale University and New Haven, the fellow will gain broad-based experience in public programs and engagement. The fellow will participate in the Wurtele Gallery Teacher training program and learn from museum educators about art-based pedagogies and the Gallery’s global collections. The fellow will also participate in Gallery-wide and department-specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, Accessibility, and Belonging training sessions and initiatives. Deadline: March 21, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody John Walsh Fellowship in Museum Education – Yale University The John Walsh Fellowship in Museum Education is a full-time, one-year fellowship, with the possibility of renewal for a second year, intended for an emerging professional with an advanced degree who is considering a career in museum education. Reporting to the Jan and Frederick Mayer Curator of Public Education and working closely with colleagues and collaborators across Yale University and New Haven, the fellow will gain broad, hands-on experience in interactive and interdisciplinary teaching with objects; working with pre-K–adult audiences and with access programming; and executing and evaluating educational offerings for diverse audiences. The fellow will participate in the Wurtele Gallery Teacher training program and learn from museum educators about art-based pedagogies and the Yale University Art Gallery’s global collections. The focus of this fellowship is to explore teaching practices in a university museum and to help develop materials that can be used in pre-K–12 and university-level teaching and as part of the Gallery’s new website. We anticipate that work in the 2022–23 academic year will be in person, though some programs will take place online. Emerging scholars with an advanced degree in art history, visual studies, museum studies, education, or a related academic field, as well as a strong interest in interdisciplinary approaches to teaching with collections, are encouraged to apply. We welcome and encourage applications from individuals of all backgrounds, especially those from traditionally underrepresented groups in the field of museum education. At least one year of experience teaching with objects in a museum setting is required. The fellow must reside in the Greater New Haven area for the term of the fellowship. Some evening and weekend work will be required. The work will entail movement between the open office space, the galleries, and the campus and community, along with use of computer and audio/visual equipment. Other duties as assigned by supervisor. The successful candidate will have excellent communication, interpersonal, research, and writing skills; a demonstrated ability to communicate with museum staff, children, teachers, and the public in a knowledgeable and professional manner; a demonstrated ability to connect with diverse audiences; and a demonstrated ability to take initiative and anticipate actions needed. Digital content/development skills would be especially welcome. Salary range: $41,000–$53,000, commensurate with education and experience; a competitive benefits package, including health insurance; a modest professional-development stipend, and relocation expense reimbursement of up to $1,000. More details on benefits here > Interested and qualified applicants must submit a CV with the names of three references and a cover letter that addresses the candidate’s interest in the fellowship. Email applications (in PDF format) to: Jessica Sack, the Jan and Frederick Mayer Curator of Public Education, jessica.sack@yale.edu, with the subject line “John Walsh Fellowship Application.” Deadline: March 21, 2022. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Call for Submissions to Asterisk* Journal & Sketchbook Zine Yale’s Art and Art History Journal Asterisk is currently starting up a zine called Sketchbook. School of Art MFA students and undergraduate art majors are invited to submit essays, reviews, and other words; poems, short stories, and other creative writing; 2D artworks; and films. Students are also invited to submit essays and artworks to the Asterisk journal. No deadline listed; submit ASAP. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Artist Call for Yale Divinity School Yale Divinity School seeks to commission an artist for a painted portrait of an American visionary Rev. Dr. Rena Joyce Weller Karefa-Smart. Rev. Dr. Rena Karefa-Smart was an extraordinary advocate, faith leader, and scholar. Though born in Bridgeport, CT, she created an international legacy, expanding from the States to Sierra Leone, parts of Europe, and back again. Her passion and tenacity led her to achieve many firsts: the 1st black woman to graduate from Yale Divinity School (1945), to earn a doctorate in theology from Harvard Divinity School (1976), and the first woman to be granted tenure at Howard University School of Divinity (1979). Deadline: March 15, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody CORTEX Magazine, a journal of arts & sciences: Editor applications open “We are an impossibility in an impossible universe.” – Ray Bradbury The universe is as beautiful as an echo – expansive, but microscopic. Blades of wheat whispering against each other in the yellow sun, the corona radiata of white fibers fanning out like a ray in our skulls, pulsing with the careful electric puzzles of life, the parallax angles of stars that poke through the wispy blue water of night. We seek those who are fascinated by these images, but are curious about the stories they might hold – of grief, anger, loss, love, and sacrifice, of the tender lobe of a mother’s ear even as wires curve into her mind. CORTEX Magazine is a journal for the arts & sciences - publishing science fiction & critical essays about technology. Each issue, we will house collections of science-inspired fiction and poetry, illustrated by on-staff artists and scored with original soundtracks by musicians. We want to immerse our readers in your worlds. CORTEX Magazine is seeking applications for our team – as well as pitches for writing for the magazine. We invite students from all backgrounds and disciplines to apply to work as an editor, illustrator, or composer – and more – for our team. If you find yourself wondering, wanting to explore, hoping to experiment with your words, and wanting to investigate the intersection of the arts with the sciences, we hope you consider applying to join us. Applications for editors will be accepted on a rolling basis. For any questions regarding the project, reach out to sarah.feng@yale.edu or cortexmagazine@gmail.com. Full information here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Law, Ethics & Animals Program at Yale Law School reopens applications for its student grant program The grant program supports student-led projects that advance understanding of, draw attention to, and/or develop strategies to address the urgent threats facing non-human animals. All current Yale students can submit proposals for term time and summer projects. For details on how to apply, see the LEAP website. All manner of projects are eligible for funding. Beyond research and scholarship, we encourage applications for podcasts, art exhibits, software, platforms, documentaries, journalism, and other projects that seek to advance a humane and sustainable world. Funding awards can range from $250 to $2,500. Decisions will be made on or before Mid-April, 2022. Projects should be completed by December 1, 2022, though this deadline is flexible for longer-term projects. The funding can cover project-related expenses, such as purchasing access to datasets, paying for web hosting or materials, costs associated with interviews or research, etc. Funding may not be used to pay salaries for applicants. Please note that awardees will be required to submit a summary of their projects by December 1, 2022, and may also be asked to present their project at a LEAP event during the 2022-23 academic year. The project summaries and/or interviews with grant recipients may also be featured on the LEAP website. Deadline: March 31, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Connecticut Innovations x Tsai CITY Art Collaboration: Open Call Connecticut Innovations (CI) and the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale (Tsai CITY) are joining forces to combine innovation with art in a way that highlights the culture and talent living right here in New Haven. Yale students and local artists can now apply to win a scholarship in exchange for creating a custom piece that will be displayed at CI’s office headquarters located in New Haven. Right now, there are six different opportunities throughout the building for custom artwork and name to be displayed. The scholarship amount will be dependent on the project area in which artists are selected. In addition to the financial benefit, this collaboration will also offer continued support to each artist, including an awards ceremony, media promotion and connections to CI’s network of innovators throughout Connecticut. Deadline: April 4, 2022. Full information & submit > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Arts community service opportunity Volunteer at Yale New Haven Hospital and facilitate art projects with patients and their siblings through Art to Heart. In you’re interested in joining, please email alie.brusselfaria@yale.edu or linda.chen@yale.edu for more information! Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody New Haven Chamber Orchestra’s invitation to the SoA community The New Haven Chamber Orchestra is a wonderful, low-stress opportunity for students to make music with the New Haven community. An intergenerational community orchestra, the NHCO is looking for players for the following sections: • Violin • Viola • Cello • DoubleBass • Clarinet • Percussion For more information, e-mail the contacts below. We look forward to hearing from you soon! Contact: info@newhavenchamberorchestra.org + violinist.kevin@gmail.com Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody In New Haven HAVEN Free Clinic now accepting volunteer applications for the Summer 2022 HAVEN Free Clinic is now accepting volunteer applications for the Summer 2022 term, which will run from June 11th, 2022 to September 17, 2022. New volunteers can access the application at this link. Returning volunteers (anyone who has volunteered at HAVEN at any point in the past) can access the application at this link. Applications are due by 11:59 PM EST Friday, May 20th. The HAVEN Board will be hosting an info session on Tuesday May 17th, 2022 from 7-8 PM. The information session can be joined via this link > (Meeting ID: 301 766 0434 | Passcode: 7uP6Ww) HIPAA training/IT forms: If accepted, you will receive an email informing you of requirements and instructions on how to fulfill your HIPAA training requirements and IT forms. Mandatory Training Session: Please note that there is a mandatory training session through Zoom for all new volunteers on Sunday, June 5th from 10 am-2 pm EST. Returning volunteers who are accepted to a new department will also be required to attend department-specific training from 1-2 pm. More details about the volunteer training will follow your acceptance decisions. COVID-19 updates: In response to COVID-19, HAVEN will be operating as a hybrid in-person and telehealth clinic. While some shifts may be virtual, volunteers may be expected to be present in clinic for their scheduled shifts, unless noted otherwise by their department. Clinic leadership will reevaluate COVID-19 precautions monthly. Virtual volunteers may be transitioned to in-person if COVID-19 infection rates in Connecticut decrease substantially Deadline: Friday, May 20, 2022. Full information (application links above) >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Connecticut Center for Arts and Technology (ConnCAT) seeks a Youth Art Instructor The Connecticut Center for Arts and Technology (ConnCAT) is a nonprofit organization based in the Newhallville section of New Haven. Our mission is to inspire, motivate, and prepare youth and adults for educational and career advancement. We are seeking a talented, highly motivated, and responsible individual to serve as Art Instructor for a blend of tasks that involve direct instruction of students using the medium of art. Instructors will play an integral role developing and delivering excellent programming and engaging students using this craft. The Youth Art Instructor position is Part Time Hourly, and reports to ConnCAT Youth and Community Programs Director, with a salary range of $20-$25 per hour. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody BRIDGEPORT PUBLIC ART FUND announces its inaugural project for a corridor of public art along Broad St from downtown Bridgeport to Seaside Park The Bridgeport Public Art Fund announces its inaugural projects for ART on Broad St, requesting submissions for 2 art works. Artists can submit samples of work, bio, contact info and preliminary concepts for consideration here > The mission of the Bridgeport Public Art Fund, administered by Fairfield County’s Community Foundation (FCCF), is to provide financial resources, guidance, connections to the arts community, collaboration, and hands-on support to create new public art trails in Bridgeport, piloting in the downtown core and then moving to additional Bridgeport neighborhoods. ART on Broad St project will activate Broad St from the downtown to Seaside Park. BUDGETS/PROJECTS: $5,000 Mural, no larger than 10 ft x 10 ft; $10,000 Entrance way canopy installation (Canopy dimensions are 21’ 6” wide, projecting out 15’) Read important info before you apply: Mural project > Canopy Project > Deadline: Sunday, May 15, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Open Call for Nasty Women Connecticut: The Will to Change: Gathering as Praxis For the sixth iteration of Nasty Women Connecticut’s annual exhibition, we look to the writing of bell hooks to make sense of feminisms’ shortcomings to further her project of gathering as an essential activity of the feminist movement. In Feminism is for Everybody, hooks writes, “we need feminist studies that is community-based.” She continues, “Imagine a mass-based feminist movement where folks go door to door passing out literature…to explain to people what feminism is all about.” We design this year’s exhibition as a space for creative forms of gathering and hosting that celebrates openness and inclusivity, but also makes space for our contemporary ambiguity, looking globally to understand community’s role in feminist movements. If the pandemic taught us anything, it’s that space can extend beyond a host site’s walls. In the wake of hooks’ passing on December 15, 2021, we dedicate this show to her life’s work and message. She teaches us (in plain words) that no one is liberated under sexist, exploitative, oppressive systems. That, in these present-day scenarios we’re all held captive. Also that, “Healing does not take place in isolation.” Evoking bell hooks’ book, The Will to Change, Nasty Women Connecticut invites artists, designers, poets, curators, performers, community organizers, cultural producers, and thinkers of all backgrounds to submit work that wrestles with these questions from a first-person perspective; designs opportunities for gathering and idea exchange outdoors, indoors and in virtual space; addresses, builds and repairs relation and community; and dares us to honestly love the self and others. As patriarchies continue to stroke fear and fan the flames of war, we feel the ripple effects through our enmeshment in globalized capitalism. We take special care this year to explore new relationships, specifically the roles men and boys play in dismantling patriarchy within our communities. In hooks’ words, “we have yet to create a world that asks us to stand by a man when he is seeking healing when he is seeking recovery when he is working to be a creator.” Pointedly, this work “can never be done alone.” The exhibition will take place at the Lyman Allyn Art Museum in the Glassenberg Gallery, a 30 x 25-foot temperature and light controlled space, from June 18 - August 12, 2022. Submissions may include visual, performing and/or literary art. Given the dimensions of the exhibition space, the organizers suggest limiting pieces to 60 inches in any direction, but consideration will be given to all submissions. The open call form includes room for describing your submission proposal and invites ideas for new installations, responses to the Lyman Allyn Art Museum (i.e., the permanent collection, physical architecture, grounds, and/or history), and text-based contributions, performances, and public programs. Deadline: May 18, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for LEAP art teachers in New Haven Art teachers are needed to teach art classes for our evening and weekend activities at the Dixwell Q House for youth and adults. Our program hours for evening activities are Monday - Thursday from 7:00-8:30 pm and Saturday from 10:00-1:00 pm. Art classes are done in 5 week increments. Class size ranges from 10-15 participants. Each art session is 1 hour - 1.5 hours. For consistency we prefer classes to be during the same day and time each week for the duration of the program. Class Structure: Teachers must be prepared to facilitate an art lesson lasting for 1-1.5 hours per session. Teachers must come prepared with a lesson plan that is age appropriate to the specific age they will be teaching. Teachers should keep participants engaged Materials: LEAP will provide all needed materials for each lesson. A complete supply list should be provided to LEAP from the instructor prior to the start of class. Compensation: Instructors will be contracted with LEAP and will be paid in the form of a check for the work completed Compensation starting at $60 per session Covid-19 Policy: LEAP requires facilitators to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Facilitators must provide proof of vaccination. Facilitators who are unvaccinated must show proof of religious or medical exemption should there be any Facilitators must wear high quality masks at all times when teaching Background check: LEAP will conduct a background check for all individuals who are 18+ working with youth How to apply: Please send resume to Yakeita Robinson, LEAP’s Chief of Staff to yrobinson@leapforkids.org. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Intern for Painter, Sculptor, Filmmaker Local New Haven studio is seeking a part-time Intern. The ideal candidate is professional, hardworking, detail-oriented and able to prioritize tasks in a fast-paced multi-disciplinary studio. Individual must have strong writing and organizational skills. The individual must also have excellent verbal communication skills and a professional demeanor. This position requires a flexible personality and the ability to work well within a group, as well as independently. Send your resume and cover letter to kapharstudio@gmail.com to be considered. Full information here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Local Composer looking for personal assistant A New Haven-based composer is looking for a personal assistant to work about 4-5 hours a week at $20/hour. The assistant will do online research, take dictation and edit writing, catalog and organize documents on a computer and hard drives, have music scores copied and bound at a local copy shop, prepare prints (framing) for exhibition, and perhaps some other things. Most work can be done remotely, but some local travel will be involved. Careful attention to detail, good communication skills, and reliability are essential. Please send a resume and short paragraph about yourself to maryam.kashani@yale.edu. We are looking to fill this position as soon as possible. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Artspace: Call for SAP Teaching Artist Artspace New Haven seeks experienced art educators to create and teach a summer art curriculum for high school students in New Haven, CT. We are looking for several part-time instructors who are available July 5–July 29, 2022 to teach a variety of subjects, including drawing, painting, sculpture, digital, and mixed/new media. Ideal candidates are thoughtful educators who possess a proven track record of delivering compelling student-centered experiences in the classroom. Artspace will provide all materials required by the educator. About Summer Artspace Program (SAP) Every spring, Artspace launches an open call for public high school students to join SAP, a summer art education program that has served over 400 young artists and employed dozens of art educators. This year, we are thrilled to release a new program design. SAP 2022 is a four-week summer art intensive offering mentorship, portfolio development, and art career advancement to New Haven public high school students. 2022 Program Goals Provide New Haven public high school students with the opportunity to learn about contemporary art practices Create an environment for young artists to delve deeply into artistic strategies and methods Build participants’ confidence in creating, presenting, and talking about their artwork Support students in creating a portfolio of work for future opportunities Deadline EXTENDED: 5PM EST on April 4, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Open Call for TEDxNewHaven Speakers TEDxNewHaven, a local TED talk conference in New Haven, Connecticut is a program of local, self-organized events that bring people together to share a TED-like experience. TEDxNewHaven is currently accepting applications to our statewide high school, undergraduate and graduate speaker and performance competition. Three student speakers will be selected to speak at TEDxNewHaven on June 11th, 2022 at the Shubert Theatre in New Haven, CT as well as participate in three-days of networking, social, media events leading up to the conference. Winners will also receive a monetary prize, either in the form of a check, or if possible, a one-time scholarship to your university. TEDxNewHaven’s theme, “Hello World!” aims to drive student speaker discussions towards society’s profound repositioning of values, thoughts, and culture post-disruptive events such as COVID-19 and the pandemic. We believe this theme is functional, encompassing, unique, and inspiring to the speakers and audience alike. Deadline: March 7. 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Straight Up Art 2022 Mural Season Artist Call Now Open! New Haven’s Straight Up Art program is now accepting RFQ’s for the 2022 season of the Straight Up Art mural program, which follows the below process: 1st Round: RFQ (request for qualifications), requesting general information about you as an artist, including - photos of past work, links to portfolio and/or website/social media, etc. 2nd Round: RFP (request for proposal), selected artists will be provided stipends to create work specific to the mural sites 3rd Round: In mid-May final artists will be chosen based on their RFP submissions; artists will work on finalizing designs and planning to begin painting in June The Straight Up Art program aims to unite artists and communities through the collaborative process of mural-making, by creating public artwork that transforms both public spaces as well as individual lives. Throughout the application process, potential candidates are asked to reflect on their relationship to New Haven’s communities and to allow the streetscapes rich culture to influence their creative process. Public art serves to connect our past, present and future through shared space and the power of art, and candidates who can honor the deep history and vibrant diversity of the New Haven community are strongly encouraged. Download full program information here > Deadline: March 29, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Invitation to join Love Notes, a fundraiser to benefit Artspace Love Notes is a new, annual fundraiser and community event that invites artists to create one-of-a-kind works of art to be sold for the benefit of Artspace. Last year, your Love Notes became a stunning patchwork of colors, textures, and approaches—and their proceeds provided critical support for this year’s exhibitions and programs. We are so grateful to everyone who joined us last year to create and purchase artworks, and are excited to invite you to join us again for Love Notes 2022. This year, Love Notes will take place April 21–23, 2022, with a VIP reception (online and in-person) on Thursday, April 21. We will install every submission we receive in our galleries salon-style, covering as much of our wall space as possible. Last year, we covered one wall from top to bottom. This year, our goal is to fill two entire walls with artwork. Deadline: April 16, 2022. Submit here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Shared studios, community-building, and mentorship opportunity available via The Launchpad In answer to the growing needs of art school graduates, and to encourage the cross pollination of ideas, The Launchpad, a strategic partnership with Hartford Art School, University of Hartford was formed in 2016. Emerging artists who have been severed from the umbilical connection of guidance, direction, community and art facilities found in a degree program, often face an uncertain future that, for the most part, has to be negotiated independently. Often working in their parents’ basements or garages, many promising young artists find themselves isolated without intellectual and creative stimulation. The Launchpad program offers participants access to affordable shared studio spaces above Five Points Gallery, free access to the Art Center, a serious arts community, mentorship, exhibition and gallery management opportunities, as well as a biennial exhibition in Five Points Gallery. Studio Monthly Rate if accepted: $85.00. Applications accepted year-round. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Outside the School of Art Recommended lists Opportunities on Hyperalllergic Opportunities on Colossal Creative Capital’s “Artist Opportunities with Upcoming Deadlines” Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Professional development & community orgs Common Field Art World Conference Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody MASS MoCA residency: Studios applications are now open for 2023! Want to join the 800+ artists who have attended residencies at The Studios at MASS MoCA? Now is your chance to apply for a 2023 MASS MoCA residency! Apply via our General Application for Winter/Spring 2023 or our Early Application for Summer/Fall 2023. It’s free to apply, and you can opt to be considered for financial aid via the General Application. Run by MASS MoCA’s Assets for Artists Department, the Studios welcomes artists at all career stages, income levels, and disciplines, although our spaces are best suited for visual artists and writers. Selected artists receive: Private, furnished studio space at MASS MoCA, available 24/7 Housing in attractive apartments directly across the street from the museum. One communal meal per day in the company of fellow artists-in-residence. MASS MoCA member benefits for three months, including free access to MASS MoCA’s galleries, as well as discounts on performing arts events and store purchases. 1-year access to financial and business workshops through MASS MoCA’s Assets for Artists program, helping artists in all disciplines strengthen the business side of their artistic practice (with advice available on taxes, grant writing, project budgeting, etc.). Optional studio visit with a MASS MoCA curator. Questions? Join a virtual info session on TUESDAY, MAY 24, from 5:30-6:30 P.M. EDT. The Studios’ Carolyn Clayton and Carolina Porras Monroy will be available to talk you through the application, our available fellowships, and answer any questions about the residency experience or application process. Register for the info session on Zoom here > Deadline: July 8, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Factory On Willow: Call for Artists in Residence (Manchester, NH) A 12-week artist residency program designed to bring emerging artists from around the world to Manchester, NH. Experience a unique environment for creative exchange and collaboration amongst a community of creators, innovators and entrepreneurs. Photographers, painters, 3D artists, designers, animators and film makers can apply. Selected artists are invited to stay for 3 months in a studio live/work apartment and community specially designed for creators, entrepreneurs and innovators. Your live/work studio rent, utilities and access to all of The Factory’s amenities, including fitness center, green space, parking, and more (a $10,000 value covered by the program): $350 travel stipend ; $200/week food & art supplies stipend; Meetups and activities with other residents, community members and our on-site facilitator; Regular open-studio events, artist talks, and teaching opportunities. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 2022 Sprouting Spaces applications now open Clementina Arts Foundation’s studio program, Sprouting Spaces, is now accepting applications for 2022. Understanding that the most critical and limiting component in an artist’s career is being able to afford space to create, Clementina Arts Foundation started a program to help artists land studio space in commercial vacancies—for free. These spaces help the landlord through awareness of the location, involve the surrounding community with an open door policy, and provide emerging/mid-career artists with much-needed space to create. Deadline: May 9, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Photographer-in-Residence: 1906 Group LLC 1906 Group, a privately-held asset creation company in the real estate, construction, and finance industry, seeks our fourth Photographer-in-Residence. The 1906 Group Photographer-in-Residence will spend ~ 1 - 1.5 years visiting our jobsites, offices, and manufacturing facilities across the United States, capturing the “Art of Building”. We are particularly interested in the teams of men and women who build our projects. As both individuals and in groups, these men and women are responsible for the heroic efforts required to build our nation’s infrastructure. Their work deserved to be documented. The Photographer-in-Residence’s mission is to think creatively of our jobsites as a “blank canvas” and to provide a novel representation of our workforce, industry, and product. Deadline: June 1, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody School of Architecture grad seeks mural painter Looking for a painter to create a residential ceiling mural that captures the spirit of the sky… sunrises, sunsets, calm, relaxation, inspiration, infinity…The area is a ceiling above a colonnade and approximately 38ft by 6ft. Timing of work would likely be early June. Payment is negotiable. Please be in touch by email (djudelson@sbcglobal.net) or at 203-530-1624. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Skidmore College seeking three Visiting Assistant Professors The Art Department at Skidmore College are looking to hire for three one-year positions in Painting and Drawing, Drawing and Fibers. Please find the full information on how to apply via the links for each job posting below: Visiting Assistant Professor, Art (Fiber Arts) Visiting Assistant Professor, Art (Drawing and Painting) Visiting Assistant Professor, Art (Drawing) Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Equal Justice Initiative: Call for Art Curator in Residence Equal Justice Initiative is seeking an art curator for a 12-24 month residency to work at their new art gallery located in the Legacy Museum in Montgomery, Alabama. EJI is open to this being a remote position with frequent travel. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Papers: Hemisphere: Visual Cultures of the Americas, Vol. 14 (Fall 2022) For the 14th Volume of Hemisphere: Visual Cultures of the Americas: “ Women in the Americas: Makers, Patrons, and Consumers” Hemisphere: Visual Cultures of the Americas is an annual publication produced by graduate students affiliated with the Department of Art at the University of New Mexico. The editors of Hemisphere are seeking works that address the topic of women and their roles in the production, consumption, and interpretation of the arts of the Americas from the ancient, Indigenous pre-contact period through European conquest and colonization, modern national contexts, up to the present. This issue will compile essays that centralize the experience and impact of women in the visual cultures of the Western Hemisphere. Topics from any time period will be welcomed. Artworks and/or artists examined in submissions must have originated in North, South, and/or Central America, or the Caribbean. Topics may include but are not limited to: women as artists/makers, women as patrons, women as subject matter, women in performance, women as visual culture consumers/viewers, women as archaeologists/anthropologists/art historians, etc., and/or studies that apply a feminist, gender, queer, decolonial, etc. methodology. Deadline: May 30, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Open Call: Waverton Art Prize Waverton Art Prize, which has been founded by Boisdale, in collaboration with Paint Talk, a curatorial platform based in London. The prize is an open submission and is £10 per submission with the winner receiving £10,000 to go toward their studio practice, leading up to a Solo Presentation to take place at Alice’s Oyster Bar and Gallery at Boisdale of Bishopsgate, London. There will be an exhibition of the shortlisted artists, selected by Paint Talk and the winner will be announced at the Opening of the exhibition, with the prize winner chosen by Stuart Pearson Wright. I have attached both the press release and also some slides with topline details of the prize. All relevant information can be found at Boisdaleart.co.uk > Deadline: April 29, 2022 (£10 application fee). Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody College of Charleston Seeks Adjunct Faculty and Darkroom & Digital Lab Technician The Photography Area in the Department of Studio Art at the College of Charleston is seeking candidates for two part-time positions starting in the fall 2022: Adjunct Faculty and Darkroom & Digital Lab Technician. Elizabeth Bick, our new Assistant Professor of Photography in Studio Art, recommended that I contact you as an especially valuable source for connecting with qualified recent graduates and alumni from your program as potential candidates. A letter, detailing the positions, is attached to this email for you to read anshare with interested former students, or, if you’d prefer to forward their names (and email addresses) to me, that works as well. A little background: The College of Charleston Studio Art department, located in the center of beautiful, historic downtown Charleston, offers a BA degree curriculum in Studio Art with approximately 130 majors enrolled annually. Photography is one of five areas of study offered in the department—along with Drawing, Painting, Printmaking and Sculpture. The Photography Area facilities are housed in the Cato Center for the Arts. Built in 2010, they feature a large darkroom, a state-of-the-art digital photography lab, a large classroom, a professional lighting studio, a photo prep room and two faculty offices. Out of an annual average of 40 graduating majors, 22% of our seniors concentrate in Photography each year. The Photography curriculum starts and builds from the traditional darkroom experience utilizing fully manual SLR cameras and extending into introductory and advanced digital and studio lighting practices. All courses include theory, history, critique, and practicum. Advanced Photography courses offer knowledge of contemporary movements in photography. No deadline listed, apply ASAP to be considered. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Ann Lesley BarTur Photo Award 2022 Theme: (Vision of the) Future Don’t dwell in the past, live for the present, and look to the future. It is precisely this maxim that the Ann Lesley BarTur Photo Award wants to unpack with women photographers from all walks of life and experience. What does the future look like to you? We invite submitters to this category to turn their lens on any aspect of how they imagine the future; be it through intimate personal hopes or fears, or through aspirations and trepidations that they have for society at large. How do you imagine your cities to be designed, inhabited, organized? Do you predict feeling more connected to the world or more isolated? Do you see the meaning of family being reshaped or challenged? Are you hopeful or apprehensive about the progression of gender equality and social justice? What do you think art will look like in the future, and how will we value it? Do you think understandings of womanhood and femininity will be different in the future? How will climate change, war, and global health crises affect how we relate to the planet and to each other as humans? Do you feel optimism, fear, or even apathy about how things unfold? Anyone who identifies as a woman, non-binary, or gender-queer is encouraged to submit to the award, and photographers of colour and from the Global South are particularly encouraged. Winners will receive a monetary prize from the USD 20,000 BarTur prize pool and equipment loan from Leica Fotografie International. The BarTur Photo Award also offers winners mentorship and exhibitions across Europe. Deadline: May 31, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody American Austrian Foundation: Call for the 2022 AAF/Seebacher Prize for Fine Arts Each year, The AAF/Seebacher Prize for Fine Arts provides fine arts graduate students at American universities, or those who have completed their graduate studies within the past two years, fellowships to study at the International Summer Academy of Fine Arts Salzburg in Austria. Founded in 1953 by Oskar Kokoschka, as The School of Vision, the International Summer Academy offers a unique working environment at the Hohensalzburg Fortress, situated on a hill overlooking the city. The fellowship recipients study with well-known and highly respected artists, curators, and art critics from around the world and immerse themselves in a European contemporary art scene, quite different from their U.S. academic environment. Eligibility: Current graduate students from U.S. schools or those who have just completed their graduate studies in the past two years may apply. Non-US citizens are welcome to apply, as long as they are a student or a recent graduate of an American art program. Please note that if a non-US citizen is selected, the AAF is not responsible for fees associated with acquiring the necessary visa, etc. The fellowship covers Summer Academy tuition, up to $1,500 of travel expenses, accommodation at Schloss Arenberg, and a stipend for meals. Deadline: 5PM on April 22, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Arts & culture marketing / strategy org LaPlaca Cohen has multiple openings! The Strategist (Project-Based/Temporary) will co-lead research (market research, user experience research, qualitative interviews) and strategy development (related to product business model and product experience) in partnership with a group of passionate team contributors. The Research Coordinator (Temporary) will support in coordination of qualitative landscape and user research, benchmarking research, gathering interview participants and subjects, and other research duties as assigned, in addition to project management tasks including scheduling, organization and preparation of research and materials for review and presentation. The Marketing Associate (Full-Time) will be a supporting member of a small and nimble team that is dedicated to developing powerful, cutting-edge media, marketing, and audience development strategies. Marketing Associates support a variety of client projects, helping coordinate all advertising, media, digital analytics, and design work streams. The Project Manager (Full-Time) will report to the Project Director and support the work of a growing team of Strategists, peer Project Managers, and Fellows. Project Managers help our projects run more seamlessly and, in turn, magnify the impact we can have within the cultural world. Apply by submitting a cover letter and resume to jobs@laplacacohen.com. Please include the job title in the subject line. No deadline listed. Apply ASAP to be considered. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Museum of Outdoor Art’s Design and Build Competition The Museum of Outdoor Arts (MOA) headquartered in Englewood, CO announces its fourth annual Design and Build Competition, open to any U.S. based undergraduate or graduate student who is enrolled in a creative field of study. This year’s theme is “Sanctuary Continental” and submissions should address the challenge of designing a conceptual sanctuary / pavilion like structure for one of the seven continents of the world, primarily utilizing local materials. Contestants must design an installation, public art work, architecture, landscape architecture or other form of structure. Entries will be reviewed by the MOA Board of Trustees, Executive Staff and a Guest Panelist. Deadline: July 10, 2022. Full information & apply > Undergraduate: Paid Summer Art Internships in Denver The Museum of Outdoor Arts is now accepting applications through April 3, 2022 for its paid summer internship, as part of the Museum’s Design and Build education program. The program operates over 8-weeks from June 6 - July 29th and is open to undergraduate students and recent graduates with 8 internship positions available. The 2022 project will be led by our artist fellow, Scottie Burgess. Participants will collaboratively create a unique and site-specific installation or sculpture for outdoor installation at the Museum’s sculpture park, Marjorie Park at Fiddler’s Green Amphitheatre. Students will be paid a stipend and college credit may also be available. Deadline: April 3, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Bark Frameworks seeks Frame Designer Bark Frameworks, an employee-owned framing shop in Long Island City NY that has been leading the industry since 1969, seeks an experienced frame designer and sales person. The frames we make are designed by us and realized by our team of expert craftspeople, all under one roof. Designing at Bark provides a unique opportunity to work closely with the practitioners who fabricate and assemble your designs – to problem solve and work through complications together, and to learn from each other throughout the process. Designers at Bark also work directly with our clients – collectors, galleries, artists, interior designers, museums, and fine art consultants throughout the New York City area. Your work will include meeting with clients both in- and outside of our Long Island City showroom, and designing solutions to preserve and present their works according to the highest standards of archival framing and aesthetic judgment. The candidate should be knowledgeable about modern and contemporary art, have an excellent work ethic, and be interested in learning and growing with an employee-owned company. For more information about our company, please visit barkframeworks.com. Reach out ASAP to be considered. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Fiminco Foundation: Call for Residency Applications The Fiminco Foundation is launching a call for applications for visual artists of all disciplines, in view of an eleven-month research, creation and production residency in Romainville, close to Paris. The residency programme is open to artists living in France and abroad, without any age limit and who can demonstrate an emerging or significant professional career. The Foundation accepts applications from duos and collectives, but the conditions of accommodation and work are the same as for single artists. Each resident artist has an individual furnished studio with a private bathroom, the size of each studio goes from 20 to 25 square meters. Living spaces and shared kitchens are provided. Artists have access to a working space in spacious collective working studios. Technical workshops (Ceramics, Construction, Graphics, Engraving, Photo & Video, Silk-screening) are made available to them. A production grant of up to 6,000 euros (including tax) for the entire duration of the residency is allocated to the artists on proof and with the production team’s supervision. Time of the residency in Romainville is from September 2022 to July 2023. Deadline: April 10, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Hoffman Creative seeks a full-time Graphic Designer Hoffman Creative, a brand identity design studio in NYC, is immediately seeking an experienced full-time Graphic Designer for print and digital design projects. With solid foundations in branding, packaging, book and web design, Hoffman Creative is looking for a dedicated candidate with knowledge of the creative process, fluid in digital and print environments, and has an eagerness to collaborate with our design team. Individual must have a minimum of 4+ years of professional experience (outside of school) in a related graphic design field, which includes exposure to both relevant client and agency-side work. Reach out ASAP to be considered. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Photographer-in-Residence: 1906 Group LLC 1906 Group, a privately-held asset creation company in the real estate, construction, and finance industry, seeks our fourth Photographer-in-Residence. The 1906 Group Photographer-in-Residence will spend ~ 1 - 1.5 years visiting our jobsites, offices, and manufacturing facilities across the United States, capturing the “Art of Building”. We are particularly interested in the teams of men and women who build our projects. As both individuals and in groups, these men and women are responsible for the heroic efforts required to build our nation’s infrastructure. Their work deserved to be documented. The Photographer-in-Residence’s mission is to think creatively of our jobsites as a “blank canvas” and to provide a novel representation of our workforce, industry, and product. The Photographer-in-Residence will receive an annual salary, benefits, and travel expense reimbursement. At the conclusion of the residency, 1906 Group will host a show to exhibit the artist’s work. Deadline: June 1, 2022. Full information > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Depict short film competition We want to see great films – it doesn’t matter what your budget is or what genre you’re working in. The competition is open to anyone from anywhere in the world, and entry is absolutely free – but there is ONE simple rule: Your film MUST be 90 seconds or less in duration. If your films are longer than 90 seconds, you can still enter a film to Encounters Film Festival by June 13th 2022. Entry requirements: Must be 90 seconds or under & Must be completed after January 2021. Full requirements > Entries for Depict 2022 are through Film Freeway – the international film submission platform used by over 7,000 of the world’s best film festivals and contests, including 70 Academy Award / BAFTA Award accredited festivals. Entries are free. Deadline: June 13, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Open Call for 2023 Tri-Star Arts: RE-PAIR Tri-Star Arts is pleased to announce the launch of the inaugural Tennessee Triennial for Contemporary Art, slated to open January 27, 2023 and run through May 7, 2023. Dr. María Magdalena Campos-Pons will serve as inaugural Consulting Curator to exhibitions across the state. The 2023 theme and core concept authored by Campos-Pons for the inaugural Tennessee Triennial is RE-PAIR; a collective set of cultural and social healing gestures, paths that suture, and recompose fractures in society and the imagination. RE-PAIR Tennessee Triennial invites us all to participate deeply as artists, organizers and public(s) in the invigoration at the intersection of art and sociability. The overarching theme of Re-pair solicits an empathetic consideration of context and space, history and commons, deeply woven into the fabric of Tennessee’s roots. In order to Re-pair, one must locate what is at fault, in order to heal, one must find the wound. Re-pair is all in love. Sign up for their mailing list to be notified when call for applications open >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Announcing the Indigenous Society of Architecture, Planning, & Design (ISAPD) Recent Yale School of Architecture alum Anjelica S. Gallegos has joined with Charelle Brown to launch the Indigenous Society of Architecture, Planning, and Design — a membership organization focused on increasing international knowledge, consciousness, and appreciation of Indigenous architecture, planning, and design, in academia and the professional realm. The group’s first endeavor is building a Student Chapter Kit, providing an organizational framework for members to leverage ISAPD resources and lessons learned as a foundation to initiate, create, and determine their own identity as student chapters. Right now they are starting to spread the word on ISAPD in hopes for student chapters to initiate for the spring semester. Students who might be interested in becoming a member or forming a student chapter are invited to visit the organizations’ new website or reach out to Anjelica directly. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Whalebone Magazine Photo Contest Open Call Whalebone Magazine just launched its 3rd Annual Photo Contest Presented by B&H Photo, with $35,000 in cash prizes. There are five categories in the Whalebone Magazine 3rd Annual Photo Contest Presented by B&H and you can enter as many as you like, so that means five chances for you to win the top prize in each category, but you can also enter as many photos as you like in each category so that pretty much means, and we’re not mathematicians here, but, carry the one and you get… more than six chances. CATEGORIES: Water, Human, Joy, Film, and Travel JUDGES: Atiba Jefferson - World-Renowned Photographer, Nakyung Han - Photo Editor at The New York Times, Ben Thouard - Leading Ocean Photographer ENTRIES: Each photo entry is $5, but we are offering students $2 off each entry with this promo code: STUDENT2022 A portion of proceeds will be donated to No Kid Hungry. The contest is open to the public. Professional, student, and amateur photographer The grand prize in each category is $5,000, and two additional finalists in each category will also win $500. Honorable mentions in each category will receive $50. Contest winners will also be featured in the 2022 Photo Issue of Whalebone Magazine. Deadline: March 11, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Locust Projects seeks proposals for LAB MFA, a summer residency and exhibition program Locust Projects, Miami’s longest-running alternative art space, invites graduate-level artists to submit project proposals for an exhibition in our 400-sq ft Project Room during the summer of 2022. Exhibition proposals should reflect an expansion of an artist’s practice in conceptual scope, scale, or media. Proposals can reflect new work that will be created for the exhibition that has never been presented before or work created on site. Priority will be given to projects that demonstrate exceptionally unique methods, processes, or concepts, particularly those that could not be presented in a traditional gallery setting with an emphasis on site-specificity and installation. To see past examples of past LAB MFA and past Project Room installations, please see Past Exhibitions here. We accept proposals from artists working in any media and artists can apply as individuals or two-person collaboratives presenting a singular project. Special consideration will be given to artists who are presenting work that is directly related to their MFA studies or artists who have never realized a solo exhibition previously. Please keep in mind, we are not a traditional gallery space. If the exhibition could easily be presented in a traditional gallery setting or could be realized without the support of our organization, it is unlikely for us to consider your proposal. We are not a commercial gallery, we do not offer artist representation. All artists must be currently enrolled in an MFA program during the spring of 2022 to apply for the LAB MFA program. Deadline: March 18, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Los Angeles Artist Seeks Assistant Los Angeles based visual artist is seeking an experienced full-time assistant. The assistant role will require a candidate that understands the importance of providing full support at all times. The ideal candidate must possess a strong sense of professionalism and dedication to see all tasks through to completion. Exceptional attention to detail, a positive attitude, along with strong written and verbal communication are all large components of the position. It’s necessary for the candidate to be able to listen well and take direction, but also is able to work independently while being 100% punctual and reliable. Work hours are Monday-Friday 10am-6pm. Responsibilities include: Maintaining digital archive of all work made and any relevant press materials Maintaining physical archive of all multiples (prints and sculptures), ephemera, and samples Calendar management Overseeing production timelines of current work being made Communicating with the artist’s galleries, museums, and clients to ensure that all works are packed, collected, documented, shipped, and installed properly Research for projects, gather estimates and all applicable information Oversee any necessary maintenance for studio and home Occasional personal errands. Qualification requirements include: High level of organization and problem solving Ability to work in a fast-paced environment Proficiency with Mac platform and Microsoft Office (Excel) Must have his/her own car and is able to navigate Los Angeles well Must be tech-savvy and can help troubleshoot Can-do attitude Knowledge of the art world Bonus qualifications: Experience with Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator Experience with ArtBase For more information or to submit resume and cover letter contact Ari Fouse at ari@alexanderisrael.com. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Montclair Art Museum seeks a Curatorial Assistant Montclair, New Jersey The Curatorial Assistant is a full-time position reporting to the Chief Curator and Curator of Native American Art, assisting them in a full range of capacities. The Curatorial Assistant will act as the departmental liaison to all staff and appropriate members of the public, especially with regard to exhibitions, as well as fielding information, research, and external requests. No deadline listed, apply ASAP to be considered. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Tang Teaching Museum at Skidmore College seeks a full-time Designer The Designer is responsible for developing and implementing design solutions that impact and shape the Museum visitor’s experience. Working collaboratively with colleagues in all areas of the museum, the designer must exercise independent judgment to develop creative and innovative ways to design and produce graphic material for exhibitions, advertisements, building signage, and event marketing. The designer is also responsible for creating and producing graphic material for social media, video, and the museum website. The Designer manages the Tang Museum’s digital media archive, consisting of thousands of images, design files, and videos. The Designer also assists as a liaison to catalogue production and supervises several student design interns. There is an opportunity for the Designer to participate in public programs and events including student workshops and visiting artist residencies. Pay Range: $55,000 to $65,000, commensurate with experience. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Anderson Ranch Arts Center Seeks Studio Coordinator of Digital Fabrication to begin in May 2022 The Studio Coordinator of Digital Fabrication will take ownership of the studio facility, equipment and supplies; setting a standard for a world-class art environment. They will act as a host to visiting faculty, students and individual artists while providing hands-on support for learning and art making at the highest level. They will monitor faculty, workshops and studio use to assure the highest quality and safest possible experience. Studio Coordinators are expected to assist with coordinating programs, and to both teach and lead demonstrations. They are expected to act as an ambassador and spokesperson for their program area, promoting workshop registration, supporting faculty, residents and visiting artists, and cultivating alumni and funder relationships. Applications are currently being accepted and the position will remain open until filled. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Applications: ACRE Summer Artist Residency Program The ACRE Residency Program takes place every summer in rural Southwest Wisconsin. Developed as a means to support emerging visual artists, sound artists, musicians, performers, writers, and curators, the program provides artists with the opportunity to expand upon their individual practices as well as take part in optional programming within a collaborative community. This summer we will continue with a restructured model focusing on smaller residencies with a reduced number of people on campus. Up-to-date vaccinations and a negative test before traveling are required for all visitors. For more information please see our On-Site Agreements which outline our protocols for staying at the farm in light of the ongoing pandemic. Set on 1,000 acres of wetland, hills, and farmland, the residency facilities include expansive communal workspaces, a screen-printing studio, woodshop, ceramics studio, fibers studio, art & tech facility, and a sound studio. Two meals per day plus a light breakfast are provided and prepared daily using ingredients grown in the surrounding area. Over the subsequent year, ACRE endeavors to provide further opportunities for exposure and community building to its alumni. Each resident is offered an exhibition opportunity at our Chicago gallery or one of a number of alternative exhibition spaces we partner within Chicago and is given access to an online “flat file,” where they can develop customizable pages to present their work. These efforts complement other activities and programming designed to create the conditions for a thriving and enduring arts network. Scholarships are available. Deadline: March 20, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 2022 Admissions for Land Arts 2022 at Texas Tech With optimism and encouragement, Land Arts of the American West at Texas Tech University is looking toward our 2022 field season. While some uncertainty continues with the pandemic, we are casting vision and energy on the horizon and looking for participants. Two online information sessions will be held for people keen to learn more and bring questions: Information Session #1, Friday, 11 March 2022, 12 noon CST, Zoom Registration Link > Information Session #2, Tuesday, 22 March 2022, 3 pm CST, Zoom Registration Link > Land Arts of the American West at Texas Tech University is a transdisciplinary field program examining the evolutionary interaction between human actions and landscape formation. The program leverages immersive field experience as a primary pedagogic agent to support research that opens horizons of perception, probes depths of inquiry, and advances understanding of human impacts shaping environments. Land Arts attracts architects, artists, and writers from across the university and beyond to a “semester abroad in our own backyard” that travels 6,000 miles overland while camping for two months to experience major land art monuments—Double Negative, Spiral Jetty, Sun Tunnels, The Lightning Field—while also visiting other sites to expand understanding of what land art might be, such as pre-contact archeology, military and industrial facilities, and contemporary infrastructure. Deadline: March 25, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Photographer-in-Residence: 1906 Group LLC 1906 Group, a privately-held asset creation company in the real estate, construction, and finance industry, seeks our fourth Photographer-in-Residence. The 1906 Group Photographer-in-Residence will spend ~ 1 - 1.5 years visiting our jobsites, offices, and manufacturing facilities across the United States, capturing the “Art of Building”. We are particularly interested in the teams of men and women who build our projects. As both individuals and in groups, these men and women are responsible for the heroic efforts required to build our nation’s infrastructure. Their work deserved to be documented. The Photographer-in-Residence’s mission is to think creatively of our jobsites as a “blank canvas” and to provide a novel representation of our workforce, industry, and product. The Photographer-in-Residence will receive an annual salary, benefits, and travel expense reimbursement. At the conclusion of the residency, 1906 Group will host a show to exhibit the artist’s work. Eligibility: The recipient of the 1906 Group Photographer-in-Residence must prove eligibility to legally work in the United States, have completed an undergraduate and/or master’s degree and physically able to be safe on construction jobsites. Most importantly, the selected candidate must share our passion for the built environment and the men and women who make it happen. Selection Process: Interested applicants must submit a one-page Statement of Interest, a portfolio of ~ 20 images, a resume and two professional references. The portfolio should demonstrate a connection to our desired subject. In addition, interviews will be required of all finalists. Deadline: June 1, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Podcast seeks graphic designer The podcast Connection is Magic is seeking a social media marketing manager with a strong skillset in graphic design: The candidate should also possess key knowledge of TikTok, Youtube and Instagram to grow our following and listenership. Basic knowledge of photography, filming and photoshop is preferred for this role. We are looking for a candidate that believes in our mission and would like to grow with the company. The position is part-time, $30/hour. On this podcast we interview both established and upcoming artists, entrepreneurs, athletes and individuals from all walks of life with riveting life stories, to discuss the twists and turns of life in a REAL way, good/bad/ugly, to inspire those who are also on similar paths or having similar experiences. We hope these stories keep others inspired and feeling more connected to forge ahead. We’ve interviewed NBA athletes, Oscar & Grammy winning musicians and a wide range of other compelling people including the 1st deaf & blind graduate from Harvard Law School, to injured US Olympic Gold Medalists to discuss how they learn and grow through adversity to become even better versions of themselves. The founder of the podcast is a former music industry executive (Interscope, Warner Music & The Tonight Show) Samson Shulman, before creating an artist development / management company, 5AM Collective based in Los Angeles. Interested applicants should reach out to directly via email to samson@connectionismagic.com with links to or examples of their work. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Arts Management Magazine’s AMM NextGen Open Call Arts Management Magazine has recently launched a new platform entitled “AMM NextGen,” which was created to showcase the talent of the next generation. We are excited to contact the artist community of Yale University as we recognize creative students around the nation. Founded in 1962, AMM (Arts Management Magazine) has shown unwavering commitment to Arts Innovation and Philanthropy. AMM publisher, Michael Reiss, had said, “the goal of AMM NextGen is to offer a unique voice to the next generation of creatives.” We have featured multiple artists of various outlets, from photographers, fashion designers, writers, illustrators, bakers, musicians, film makers, and more — now we want to feature your work! Please feel free to email AMM NextGen’s Executive Coordinator, Brynn O’Connor, directly with any questions. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Arts Management Magazine’s AMM NextGen Open Call Point 5 seeks a Graphic Designer We’re looking for a full-time designer to join our creative team. The successful candidate must have a demonstrated passion for editorial work, as well as strengths in both print and digital. Applicant must be smart, curious, and comfortable taking initiative to solve problems. Attention to detail and strong organizational skills are a must for juggling multiple deadlines. Graceful under pressure and a sense of humor a must. Love for dogs a plus. This position requires 2-3 years of industry experience. The designer will work directly with the studio principals on a variety of editorial projects, assisting on concepts, research, design, and production, as well as art direction. As a small studio, we all wear many hats; the right candidate will be eager to jump in and develop a broad skill set, with appropriate mentoring. This is a full-time staff position with benefits (health insurance and IRA); salary commensurate with experience. Candidates should be based in the NYC area and able to come in to the studio. We are currently working on a hybrid model (both remote and in-person work) as we ease back towards being in the studio full-time. Proficiency in Adobe CS (InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator) is required. Sketch, HTML and CSS experience is a plus, but not required. How to Apply: Please email a brief note explaining your fit for our studio and the position to designer@point5.com. Also include a resume and portfolio. Subject line of email: Full-Time Designer 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Ongoing / Regular Awards The Hopper Prize: Offers a series of individual artist grants on a bi-annual basis. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Archive of past opportunities: Anderson Ranch Arts Center Summer Internships May 22 - early September, 2022 The Anderson Ranch Arts Center in Snowmass Village, Colorado seeks interns for its Summer 2022 program, which includes: Cermaic Interns, Photography & New Media Interns, Painting & Printmaking Interns, Sculpture / Woodworking and Furniture Interns, Children’s Program Interns, and Digital Fabrication Interns. The program seeks to find energetic and dynamic summer interns to join us for an exciting summer of studio time. They will be driven, like us, by a belief that the power of artmaking can change individuals and the world. This hands on learning experience is designed for career-minded undergraduate and graduate students ready to fully immerse themselves in the day-to-day operations of a world-class teaching, learning and art making program. Participants will have a passion for developing practical knowledge of traditional and modern techniques and gain a deeper understanding of the teaching process and practice. Deadline: March 6, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Vassar Review’s Sense & Splendor: Call for Reviews In the wake of the past two years, the seventh edition of the Vassar Review seeks to move towards a refreshed celebration of life and its abundance. We invite a reconnection with the world and our bodies after a period of isolation, a search for joy, and an exploration of the senses and all the splendor at our disposal. With this in mind, we ask how might we return to our embodied, child-like mysticism in the midst of upheaval? Inspired by the urge to refasten ourselves to this tactile existence, “Sense & Splendor” encourages all of us to search for the sumptuous qualities of life. Please direct submissions to the Vassar Review email (vassarreview@vassar.edu). Submissions should be attached to the email as a PDF, Word Document or Google Doc. In the email please also include the author’s full name, email address and small author bio (1-3 sentences). Deadline: March 7, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Henry Moore Foundation Residency Candidates must be a current MFA student or 2022 MFA graduate from the Yale School of Art Henry Spencer Moore (1898–1986) was one of the most important British artists of the twentieth century and arguably the most internationally celebrated sculptor of his time. Renowned primarily for his semi-abstract monumental sculpture, which can be seen in museums and civic spaces all over the world, he also produced a remarkable body of work in drawing, printmaking, and textile design. Moore was a pioneer, and the first British artist to become a global star in his own lifetime. His work came to symbolize post-war modernism and it is said to have initiated a sculptural renaissance in Great Britain. The Henry Moore Foundation (HMF) and the Yale Center for British Art (YCBA), the largest museum outside of the United Kingdom devoted to British art, annually award a monthlong residency to a current MFA student or recent MFA graduate of the Yale School of Art with an interest in Henry Moore’s art and life. The resident spends most of their time at Henry Moore Studios & Gardens (HMS&G) at Perry Green in the Hertfordshire countryside with the opportunity to spend up to one week at the Henry Moore Institute (HMI) in Leeds, exploring the Foundation’s extensive resources, with a particular focus on the collections and archive at HMS&G. Located at the artist’s former home, HMS&G holds one of the world’s largest collections of archives (Henry Moore Archive) and artworks (Henry Moore Collections) by a single artist. With a wealth of staff expertise to offer within the Collections & Programmes Department, it offers an unrivalled resource for the understanding and appreciation of every aspect of Moore’s practice and legacy. HMI holds a research library for the study of sculpture, comprising more than twenty-seven thousand books, exhibition catalogues, journals, and audiovisual items. Access to these resources is available to the successful applicant for the duration of the residency. Applications for the 2022 program are due Friday, February 25, 2022. Full information & application here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) NXTHVN 2022-2023 Studio and Curatorial Fellowships Application Each year NXTHVN welcomes up to seven artists, two curators, and nine New Haven high school students to its annual fellowship and apprenticeship programs. Founded by Jason Price and Titus Kaphar, the core principles of NXTHVN’s mission are: mentorship, collaboration, and professional development. In its fellowship program, the organization nurtures and serves a community of artists, curators and high school apprentices through a dynamic learning model that focuses on two key areas of professionalization in the field of art: access and education. Selected from an international pool of applicants, fellows relocate to the Dixwell Neighborhood of New Haven, Connecticut to participate in NXTHVN’s mentorship-driven curriculum which includes professional development sessions led by visiting artists, curators, scholars, and practitioners. Each fellow mentors a local high school apprentice, providing them with hands-on instruction in studio and curatorial practices. The year culminates with exhibitions for the fellows and apprentices. Deadline: February 21, 2022. Apply here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Shops at Yale: Call for Visual Artists & Musicians The Shops at Yale and the Whitney-Audubon Retail & Arts District invite local visual artists and musicians of all skill levels to submit their information for participation in free contests as well as paid opportunities for events and activations in downtown New Haven. Opportunities for visual artists include the Window Art Contest (artwork will be painted directly on storefront windows and will be displayed for 3 weeks, from Saturday, May 7 to Monday, May 30), Mural Demonstrations (finished murals will be displayed in downtown storefronts with the artist’s contact information) and the Chalk Art Contest (artists compete for more than $2,500 in gift cards, creating a family-friendly 4ft by 4ft fall- themed chalk artwork on the sidewalk using washable chalk sticks). Deadline: February 25, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Avenue Concept: Call for Public Art Sculpture 2022 The Avenue Concept invites submissions of dynamic outdoor sculptures for display in Downtown Providence, Rhode Island. Captivate the imagination of a City with the exhibition of your work. The public has rediscovered the importance of artwork in our shared outdoor environment in recent years. It is a reason to venture out, a moment of inspiration, a vibrant addition to daily life in the city. Artworks that have layers of understanding, meaning, storytelling or ways of being appreciated will resonate the most in this opportunity. This Opportunity is open to all emerging and established sculpture artists within 200 miles of Providence RI. BIPOC, LGBTQIA2S+ artists are encouraged to apply. Deadline: February 15, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Art: The Sculpture Shoppe at Cornell University / Ithaca Mall The Sculpture Shoppe is an exhibition of plaster reproductions of classical Greco- Roman art from the Cornell Cast Collection and responses to cast culture and classical art by contemporary artists and thinkers. The exhibition will take place spring 2022 in a former retail space at the Ithaca Mall. Submitted works will be juried by Professor Verity Platt (Cornell University, Professor of Classics and History of Art; Chair, Department of Classics), Annetta Alexandridis (Cornell University, Associate Professor of History of Art and Classics), and David Nasca (Cornell University MFA 2022). Please submit up to 5 images along with a CV or resume to thesculptureshoppe@cornell.edu. Alternatively, you may submit a narrative proposal and sketches for a to-be-realized work. Notification of acceptance will be made by March 1st 2022. Deadline: February 13, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody EFA Project Space invites exhibition and project proposals for its 2023-24 season How far can the idiom of the contemporary art exhibition be stretched before it begins to lose its commonly-understood meaning? Where are the bounds of site located that allow us to inscribe what it is to curate, to make shows, to invite a public, to further the work of artists and curators, or to share a work in public? This open call invites curatorial proposals, publication ideas, artist project proposals, one-off gatherings or series, and other forms that respond to and pose questions about the limits and boundaries of contemporary exhibition-making. Deadline EXTENDED: February 22, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Photograph by Meredith Miller Yale Health 2022 Call For Artists: Care The Arts at Yale Health seeks work responding to the idea of “care” in all its iterations. Some examples include Caregiver, Childcare, Healthcare, Eldercare, and Self-care, but this list is by no means exhaustive. We welcome artwork in all media, and invite artists to submit individual works for consideration, or a small series of 8-10 pieces. We are additionally seeking site-specific proposals for creative installation for the rooftop healing garden and terrace. The purpose of The Arts at Yale Health is to offer enrichment and enjoyment to patients, visitors and staff through the visual arts. Please see our Guidelines for Artists for more details. General Submission Deadline: Submit a single image, or 8-10 images from a series or project, by 11:59pm on Tuesday, February 1 for wall exhibition. Notifications will go out the week of February 15, 2021. Submission Deadline: February 1, 2022. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Tsai CITY: Apply for Venture Development Programs Tsai CITY, the Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale, invites students participate in their upcoming offerings: Are you building on an idea: a business, a social enterprise or nonprofit, an arts project, a social movement, a tech venture, or something else? Apply for our spring 2022 venture development programs or our summer fellowship! The Launch Pad (Spring 2022) is designed for early-stage founders to develop their ideas and prepare to prototype, through self-paced content, coaching, and community-building. (link >) The Accelerator (Spring 2022) guides students and teams whose innovative ideas have demonstrated traction through the process of building effective organizations, projects, and ventures through workshops, mentorship, and funding. (link >) The Summer Fellowship (Summer 2022) a multi-week, full-time summer accelerator designed to incubate new companies, nonprofits, and initiatives. Building on ideas within a supportive environment, teams can go from prototype to launch by summer’s end. (link >) These programs share a common application, which is due at 11:59pm on Sunday, February 6th. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale Environmental Humanities announces the third cycle of its Environmental Public Humanities Grant Program! The grant program seeks to encourage humanities projects that engage diverse publics with urgent cultural, ethical, and social questions related to the environment and society. We welcome public humanities activities that address topics related to energy and climate, food and agriculture, human/environmental health, plant and animal species, urban and rural geographies and planning, and mining and other forms of extraction. Yale students, faculty, and staff are invited to submit proposals for funding for public humanities projects broadly related to the environment. By encouraging interdisciplinary and public-oriented approaches, we hope to expand our knowledge of the humanities and engage with our community at Yale, in New Haven, and beyond. Previous public humanities grants have included artistic and musical endeavors, documentary films, oral history projects, community-based collaborations, environmental education programs, and environmental communications projects, including podcasts and websites. Possible projects include, but are not limited to: Podcast/radio episode or show; Video web series; Documentary project; Collaborative efforts with community-based organizations ; Interactive websites or web interfaces; Art installations; Engagement with poetry/literature; Curation of museum, gallery, or library exhibit; Lecture/Discussion events (excluding routine campus speakers); Mobile applications; Project or workshop series/collaboration with educational institutions or organizations. Funding will range from $250-$2,500 dollars, depending on the scope and requirements of the project. We encourage applicants to seek additional funding from other sources. Please visit our website for more details about the grant program, and for application instructions. Decisions will be made and announced by mid-February. Deadline: Sunday, February 6, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Vassar Review: Open Call for 2022 issue “Sense & Splendor” International, multidisciplinary literary arts journal, Vassar Review seeks visual arts and digital arts to contribute to this year’s issue, “Sense & Splendor": In the wake of the past two years, the seventh edition of the Vassar Review seeks to move towards a refreshed celebration of life and its abundance. We invite a reconnection with the world and our bodies after a period of isolation, a search for joy, and an exploration of the senses and all the splendor at our disposal. With this in mind, we ask how might we return to our embodied, child-like mysticism in the midst of upheaval? Inspired by the urge to refasten ourselves to this tactile existence, “Sense & Splendor” encourages all of us to search for the sumptuous qualities of life. We accept a range of work including poetry, prose, sculpture, soundscapes, performance, scripts, visual and digital media, and beyond. Bilingual texts and excerpts from longer dramatic works, such as screenplays and graphic novels, are also considered. We do not accept works previously published in print but will consider previously exhibited visual work. Simultaneous submissions are allowed but require that artists notify editors if the work has been accepted elsewhere. All contributors retain copyright over their individual works. Deadline: January 26, 2022. Full information & submit >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Announcing the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards Presented by Asia Society and the Helen Frankenthaler Foundation, the Frankenthaler Climate Art Awards aim to foster climate change awareness through the imagination and insights of an upcoming generation of visual artists. Starting January 10, 2022, eligible emerging artists and collectives are invited to submit video artworks (e.g. digital video art, animation, film) or videos about visual artworks (e.g. documentation of 2D or 3D artworks, such as sculptures, photos, paintings, installation, or performance works) that tackle the climate change emergency directly on this webpage. A shortlist of finalists will be announced in February and their videos displayed online. Three winners will be selected by a jury of leaders from the collaborating institutions: Melissa Chiu, Director, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; Molly Donovan, Curator of Contemporary Art, National Gallery of Art; Dorothy Kosinski, Vrandenburg Director & CEO, The Phillips Collection; and Michelle Yun Mapplethorpe, Vice President for Global Artistic Programs at Asia Society and Director of Asia Society Museum, New York. Each winner will receive $15,000. The winners will be honored in April 2022 at the Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C. on the occasion of Asia Society’s COAL + ICE exhibition. Eligibility: Applicants must be either currently enrolled in a US-based fine or visual art MFA program or will have graduated from such a program in the past five years (no earlier than 2017). They must reside in the United States, with the exception of students currently enrolled in US-based programs who are pursuing their studies remotely due to Covid-19 travel restrictions, for which special consideration may be given. How to prepare: In addition to a video submission, prospective applicants will submit representative video image stills, an artist’s statement, a short bio, and brief written responses to a series of questions. Personal information will be required to verify eligibility. Deadline: ASAP, by end of January 2022. Full information & application > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody University of Dayton seeks Tenure-Track Assistant Professors in Graphic Design The University of Dayton Department of Art and Design invites applications for two Tenure-Track Assistant Professor positions specializing in Graphic Design to begin August 16th, 2022. Follow the links below to apply: Assistant Professor Specializing in Graphic Design Apply here > Assistant Professor Specializing in Graphic Design - Digital Media Apply here > Deadline to apply for both positions: January 31, 2022. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody 2022-23 Fine Arts Work Center Visual Arts Fellowship Note: $57 application fee Applications are open for the 2022-23 Fine Arts Work Center Visual Arts Fellowship in Provincetown, Massachusetts. The Fellowship, which runs from October 1 through April 30, offers emerging artists seven months of uninterrupted time and space to focus solely on their work. Fellows receive a monthly stipend, housing, and a work studio, as well as exhibition opportunities at the newly relocated Hudson D. Walker Gallery and access to established artists through the Winter Visiting Artists Program. Past Fellows include Jennifer Packer, Matt Bollinger, Kambui Olujimi, Angela Dufresne, Elliott Hundley, Ellen Altfest, Ellen Gallagher, Jack Pierson, Lisa Yuskavage, and many others. Deadline: Tuesday, February 1, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Barnard College-based Journal of Art Criticism — 2022 Call for Submissions: Temperature For its seventh issue, the Journal of Art Criticism (JAC) seeks essays and original artworks that interrogate the notion of temperature in the changing world of contemporary art. Some questions that might guide this exploration include—but are certainly not limited to—the following: How have contemporary artists represented temperature—physical, emotional, atmospheric, political, social? How does temperature affect processes of migration and transculturation? In what ways have artists engaged with themes of habitable space? Does temperature govern uneven capitalist development? How has contemporary art interrogated globalization? How do contemporary works generate transitional spaces, intermediate states, and moments of discrepancy? How have they fabricated or contested the thresholds or boundaries between elements? Does work surrounding febricity and the climate need to be didactic? Should art seek to transcend anthropocentrism? The journal welcomes written submissions discussing any work of contemporary art—from painting to performance, relational aesthetics to sculptural installation—so long as it engages critically with some dimension of what it means for art to interrogate temperature. Essays should be 1,000-3,000 words and previously unpublished. In addition to written submissions, we accept submissions of original visual art in any medium. Artist statements are accepted, but not required. Priority will be given to artworks that engage with the notion of temperature either formally or thematically. Undergraduate students from any institution are encouraged to submit. Please note that JAC is a strictly undergraduate journal. Deadline: January 28, 2022. Full information & submit >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Creative Quarterly: Call for Entries 67 is Open The international competition is open to all art directors, graphic designers, photographers, illustrators and fine artists in all countries. There are separate categories for professional and student entries. Categories include Advertising, Graphic Design, Illustration Photography and Fine Art. Both commissioned and personal work are accepted for judging. Winners will appear in Creative Quarterly as well as in the online Gallery. All winners receive a certificate of excellence. Runners-up will be featured only in the online Gallery. Winners will receive a complimentary copy of the publication, their work will be displayed in their online gallery which has links to your contact information and winners may choose to receive a complimentary award certificate. In addition, as a winner, you become a finalist for our year-end 100 Best judging where we select the top one-hundred entries from 2020. 100 Best winners will be exhibited in a New York gallery, with an artist reception. Our 100 Best Annual will be distributed worldwide. Winners will be promoted online and in print and the work will be displayed on an online gallery. Deadline: January 28, 2022. Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Periplus Workshops 2022: Short-term residency for designers, artists, creatives & performing artists, working across all cultural fields JULY 2022 | Mani, Southern Peloponnese, Greece Periplus Workshops offers selected creative and cultural students, graduates and professionals from all over the world, the time and space to delve into a constantly open lab, where thinking through making, experiential access to local identity and a deeply humanising relationship with nature may develop into a new approach to immense creativity. Gathering knowledge that may subsequently help local societies better deal with their existing and future multifaceted challenges. Powerfully reengaging them with the wealthy but frequently neglected potential of their local environment. Deadline: January 31, 2022. Full information >> TUITION CHARGE Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Bruce L. Cohen Fund Research Awards and FLAGS (Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies) Awards The Bruce L. Cohen Fund Established through the generosity of Bruce L. Cohen ‘83, supports undergraduate scholarship and undergraduate scholarly programming. Grants are made in support of research and on-campus scholarly events. Successful applications to the Bruce L. Cohen Fund Research Award will include a specific description of the relationship between your project and LGBT and gender studies and citation of specific texts from the relevant fields of scholarship. Funding for research may support such items as travel* to archives or other research sites; acquisition of inaccessible books, microfilms, or other materials (with the understanding that such materials will ultimately be offered to Sterling or another library within the university); or other legitimate research expenses. Individual awards range from $200 to $1,000. All Yale undergraduates are eligible to apply. Individual research awards range from $200 to $1,000. FLAGS Awards FLAGS (Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies) awards are available to Yale faculty, graduate students, and professional school students. Grants are made in support of research, publication, and course development. Funding may support such items as travel* to archives; transcription of interviews; acquisition of inaccessible books, microfilms, or other materials (with the understanding that such materials will ultimately be offered to Sterling or another library within the university); assistance in research and manuscript preparation; publication subvention; and approved experiments in basic science, medicine, nursing, psychology, and public health. FLAGS does not fund conference participation or presentation. Individual awards range from $500 to $5,000. (*Important: Details and additional resources related to current travel policies and restrictions can be found here.) Deadline: Wednesday, February 9, 2022. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody School of Management students seek collaborator Second-year MBA student at the School of Management, Xiaoteng Huang, is the co-founder of an angel-backed start-up looking to transform the traditional funeral industry. His colleagues are searching for a strong web developer to join the team. Here are some of the core attributes they’re searching for: Experience and interest in web development A keen eye for user experience and interface Willingness to engage in discussions about death, grief, and healing Collaborative spirit and clear communication style This is a paid opportunity with flexible hours, with the potential to grow into a CTO role if you’re interested in working with us in the long-term. Interested students should fill out this Google Form > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Yale Law Journal Graphic Designer Position A forthcoming work in the Yale Law Journal incorporates a survey illustrating the school-provided meals and health services that public-school students are entitled to in each state. Currently, the survey data is presented in a series of tables, and the Journal is seeking a graphic designer to create maps to coherently present the data from the tables. Reply ASAP. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Balma Health seeks illustrator Rising Yale sophomore Sophia De Oliveira is building a venture—Balma Health—alongside the Yale Tsai City team that works on constructing empowering and interactive health communication tools for children with chronic diseases. They construct kits, such as a COVID-19 lung model kit, to help children better understand diseases in an empowering manner. Currently, they are working on constructing kits for diabetes and asthma for use in children’s hospitals. Each of their kits contains a child appropriate instructional story-booklet. The group is seeing an art student potentially interested in creating work for the venture. The student would primarily work on creating child appropriate illustrations for each story-booklet, and would effectively be appointed our children’s book illustrator and design expert. Interested students are encouraged to reach out to sophia.deoliveira@yale.edu directly >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Spring 2022 Opportunities at Yale Schwarzman Center The Yale Schwarzman Center (YSC) will be premiering Faultline Ensemble’s Contact, a devised, outdoor ensemble performance, in May 2022 at the Yale Landscape Lab. In addition, they are accepting proposals for YSC Sessions this semester. Call for Auditions: Contact January 13 - 23, 2022 | Via Zoom To reserve your audition time, email faultineensemble@gmail.com Contact uses the immediacy of COVID-19 to conceptualize the climate crisis. This original play will weave together letters from climate scientists about the emotional impact of studying climate change, efforts to warn future civilizations about long-range nuclear waste, and experiences of health communication during the pandemic. Learn more about the play and audition process here > Contact is a project of Faultine Ensemble, the Yale School of Public Health, Yale Schwarzman Center, and the Burroughs Welcome Fund. YSC Sessions: Call for Proposals for Spring 2022 Yale Schwarzman Center is now accepting proposals for the Sessions this semester. Sessions are open to the Yale community and provide opportunities to gather diverse perspectives on topics proposed by you. This signature program includes a casual 60-minute gathering that brings 12 participants together over a meal provided by YSC. The goal of Sessions is to generate collaborations across the community and move ideas into action. Deadline: Friday, January 21, 2022. Full information & apply > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody SER Art Contest— $500 prize with Judge Ming Ying Hong Southeast Review, an arts and literature journal published out of the English and Creative Writing PhD program at Florida State University, is seeking submissions to the publication’s art contest. The prize is $500 and artist Ming Ying Hong will serve as the round’s final judge. The winner will be featured robustly online/in print in Spring 2022.The journal accepts any kind of art, though for practical reasons, please try to photograph/record as best you can for the submission process. Deadline: January 1, 2022. Full information >> | Apply here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Open call for Masur Museum of Art’s 59th Juried Competition The Masur Museum of Art’s Annual Juried Competition showcases contemporary artists throughout the United States of America working in any medium. Submit work to the 59th Juried Competition at the Masur Museum of Art in Monroe, Louisiana for an exhibition to be staged February 24 – May 7, 2022, alongside $3,200 total in cash awards. This year’s juror is Susan Baley, Executive Director of 108 Contemporary, Tulsa, Oklahoma. Deadline: December 16, 2021 (5PM CT). Full information & apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Occidental College seeks two Mellon Post-MFA Fellows: (1) Painting and Drawing as Critical Practice (Full information >) (2) The Reproducible Image: Printmaking, Photography and Digital Imagemaking (Full information >) Occidental College invites applicants for a one-year Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship followed by a tenure-track Assistant Professor appointment in the Art and Art History Department. This search is part of Occidental’s new multi-year Mellon Faculty Diversity Initiative (MDFI), which is synergized with the College’s renewed commitment to equity & justice and an intensified effort to hire faculty whose work focuses on issues of race and/or social justice and whose background, expertise, and experiences will contribute to diversifying Oxy’s faculty. The successful candidate will join the first of three MFDI cohorts with a total of nine postdoctoral positions in the Arts and Humanities. As part of the MFDI program, the members of the cohorts will be provided enhanced mentoring, professional development, and a greatly reduced teaching load. The position will begin in August 2022. Deadline to apply for both positions: December 15, 2021. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody International Studio & Curatorial Program (ISCP): Open Call for New York Community Trust Van Lier Residencies The International Studio & Curatorial Program (ISCP) is pleased to announce an open call for two fully-funded six-month residencies, from January 1 - June 30, 2022, and one to take place September 1, 2022 – February 28, 2023, plus living and materials stipend of approximately $3,000 per month for talented, culturally diverse, economically disadvantaged young artists who are residents of New York City. Applicant must be aged 30 or younger, identify as a person of color, and demonstrate financial need. Applicants must not have previously received any grants from The New York Community Trust Van Lier fund prior to applying for this residency. Applicant must reside in one of the five boroughs of New York City, for a minimum of one-year prior to date of application. Applicant must be aged 30 or younger, identify as a person of color, and demonstrate financial need. Applicants must not have previously received any grants from The New York Community Trust Van Lier fund prior to applying for this residency. Applicant must reside in one of the five boroughs of New York City, for a minimum of one-year prior to date of application. Among ISCP’s respected alumni are artists Kevin Beasley, Elmgreen and Dragset, Claire Fontaine, Theaster Gates, Camille Henrot, Yeondoo Jung, Chi Wo Leung, Maider Lopez, Carsten Nicolai, Jacolby Satterwhite, Tatiana Trouvé; and curators Vit Havránek, and Aneta Syzlak. Deadline: November 15, 2021. ISCP website > Full information > | Application PDF > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody AIR/HMC, Budapest International Artists Residencies 2022 Session 1: Tuesday, June 7 - Tuesday, June 28, 2022 Session 2: Tuesday, July 12 - Tuesday, August 2, 2022 Session 3: Tuesday, August 9 - Tuesday, August 30, 2022 HMC is now accepting submissions for the Artists-in-Residence Program and exhibition in 2022 at AIR-HMC, Budapest-Hungary. The AIR/HMC, Budapest Residency is an opportunity for a small community of artists to work independently for a short term in Budapest. The goal is to provide professional opportunities for individual or collaborating artists and encourage experimentation and inquiry in all media. In addition to the residency, the selected artist will have the opportunity to present their works in a Gallery exhibition, also at an Artist Talk and an Open Studio. Applications require: Application fee $25; Concise description (1 paragraph) of the project or type of work you plan to pursue during the requested time frame, application form, 4 images of recent work in digital format, CV or resume. Interested applicants are encouraged to reach out directly > Application Deadline: November 25, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody FUND FOR LESBIAN AND GAY STUDIES (FLAGS) FLAGS (Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies) awards are available to Yale faculty, graduate students, and professional school students. Grants are made in support of research, publication, and course development. Funding may support such items as travel* to archives; transcription of interviews; acquisition of inaccessible books, microfilms, or other materials (with the understanding that such materials will ultimately be offered to Sterling or another library within the university); assistance in research and manuscript preparation; publication subvention; and approved experiments in basic science, medicine, nursing, psychology, and public health. FLAGS does not fund conference participation or presentation. Individual awards range from $500 to $5,000. Application Deadline: Wednesday, October 20, 2021. Apply here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Foundwork Artist Prize The Foundwork Artist Prize is an annual juried award started in 2019 to recognize outstanding practices by contemporary artists working in any media. This year, two honorees will receive unrestricted $10,000 grants and studio visits with each of the distinguished jurors. The honorees and three shortlisted artists will also be invited for interviews as part of the Foundwork Dialogues program to further public engagement with their work. Enrollment deadline: 5:00 pm PT, October 10, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Open Call for Installation Proposals Tsai CITY Center The Tsai CITY Center for Innovative Thinking is accepting proposals for a week-long exhibition in their new building on 17 Prospect Street for a week long group exhibition from Oct 25th-29th. Select artists will be awarded a Tsai CITY Innovative Arts Grant (Student Exploration Fund) of $500 and a materials budget of $200 is allocated for the creation of your installation in our inaugural exhibition space. Professional documentation of your installation will be provided and there will be a campus-wide exhibition opening on Oct. 25th. Please apply here by October 11th > Artists will also have the opportunity to participate in this seasons Beyond the Studio workshop on “Healing Spaces” where an artist will lead the discussion on healing and Art Advisor Alaina Simone will lead a discussion on navigating creative career paths. Tsai CITY is an innovation hub. Please review our mission and values and submit a proposal communicating your vision. Installations must be free-standing and cannot be larger than 12’ wide x 8’ deep x 12’ high. The installation space is located on the south end of the Tsai CITY building. Please review the photos of our exhibition space before drafting a proposal. Submissions can take the form of drawings, renderings, or slide presentations. Artworks can take any form but must meet the spatial requirements. Individual artists as well as collaborative groups are encouraged to apply. Please provide a 250 word statement on how your creative practice pushes the bounds of culture. How is your work innovative? Include in your application a materials budget. Deadline: October 11, 2021. Full information > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Bronx Museum of the Arts: AIM Fellowship program FOR GRADUATING 2ND YEARS Applications for the 42nd cycle of the Bronx Museum’s AIM Fellowship program will be accepted through October 11, 2021 via online application. Join a growing community of over 1,200 aspiring artists who have participated in the Bronx Museum’s storied career development program for New York City-based visual artists. See the application link for program details and eligibility criteria. Deadline: October 11, 2021. Apply here > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Internships for Undergraduate and Graduate Students at the Met Current students and recent graduates can learn about museum practice and gain professional skills in a variety of fields through internships at The Met Fifth Avenue and The Met Cloisters during the academic year. In addition to developing their skills through projects in various departments, our interns join a community of fellow interns and staff during their time at The Met. All interns participate in a weekly program introducing them to projects, activities, and staff across the Museum. This might include talks in the galleries, presentations by staff, lunches with individual staff members, or behind-the-scenes tours of Museum departments. The Met strongly encourages applications from students and recent graduates who identify as members of groups that are underrepresented in the museum field and the arts. Deadline: September 29, 2021 at 5PM EST. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Click image for Seed Grant Application website. Women Faculty Forum Now Accepting Fall 2021 Seed Grant Applications Created in 2017, the Yale Women Faculty Forum’s “Seed Grants” identify innovative ways to support the WFF mission by investing in the diverse work of faculty and student scholars at Yale. We aim to expand and encourage research and build visibility for issues and policies relating to gender in higher education. For more information, visit the WFF Seed Grant web page. This opportunity is for faculty, postdoctoral, graduate, and undergraduate scholars. The deadline for applications is October 1, 2021. Full information & application >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody The Architecture School invites SoA Students to participate in *Speaking into Being: Beyond Asian Silence* School of Art students can submit their work in relation to the AAPI-related prompt: Speaking Into Being: Beyond Asian Silence exhibition is a provocation against the suppression and omission of Asian voices in the American society. By properly commemorating our losses and orienting them in historical context, we hope to release burdens of the past, and create opportunities for unhindered conversations. It is a space for grieving, a space to bring our community together, and navigate the Asian identity. We invite you to contribute to an ongoing archive which aims to document all experiences within Asian and Asian American communities. At this point, works submitted will be part of the ongoing digital archive - collected within beyondasiansilence.com. Submissions may take the form of a voice memo, a photograph, an object, a 30 second video, a drawing, etc. Submission Guideline: A one sentence bio A short description of your piece Please name your file as LastNameFirstNameTitle and submit it through wetransfer to chloe.hou@yale.edu and faith.pang@yale.edu Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Lighthouse Works: 2022 Fellowship Sessions Open 5 sessions March 15 - December 6, 2022 | Fishers Island, NY Artists at any stage of their career are encouraged to apply for a fellowship through our online application system. Applicants are required to fill out an application form, submit work samples, attach a CV and work sample statement, and remit a $25 application fee. While our staff reviews applications for completeness, a jury of experts in each artist’s field evaluates the applications and identifies the finalists. Finalists will be invited for phone interviews, and all applicants will be informed of the committee’s decision by the notification date for the relevant application period. Artistic excellence is the primary criterion for acceptance into the Fellowship Program. Deadline: October 1, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Apply for Tsai CITY Intensive: Hub and Spoke A new program by Tsai CITY and Yale Schwarzman Center, Hub and Spoke, aims to dissolve the town-and-gown divide by connecting and continuing pre-existing New Haven—Yale creative initiatives. This cohort will be responsible for developing deliverables that articulate the vision of Hub and Spoke, completing research for a community-centered project, and presenting Hub and Spoke to stakeholders through an exhibition. There will be in-person meetings and visits to New Haven organizations. Participants will have mentorship and advising from leaders in the departments involved and New Haven community partners. There is a $3000 budget to use in New Haven. You should expect involvement in Hub and Spoke for 4 hours per week, including meeting in weekly huddle sessions from October 18th to November 29th. Students will gain hands-on experience building Hub and Spoke from the ground up, working in a team, building a portfolio, growing a network, learning communication and design skills, and identifying internship/collaboration opportunities within New Haven. Participants will have mentorship and advising from leaders in the departments involved and New Haven community partners. Deadline EXTENDED: October 4, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for applications 2021–22: Art by Translation Research and exhibition program: September 24, 2021–June 30, 2022 Art by Translation (AbT) is open to four artists (visual arts, performance, dance, creative writing, music, etc.) seeking to further their research through a postgraduate program dedicated to “translation in the arts”. AbT is a research and exhibition program initiated by École Nationale Supérieure d’Arts de Paris-Cergy and École Supérieure d’Art et de Design TALM Angers organized by Maud Jacquin and Sébastien Pluot, the program’s founding directors, in collaboration with the artist Renaud Auguste-Dormeuil. For the 2021–22 session entitled “Foreign Affairs” AbT will explore the forms and specificities of diplomatic language, action and protocol and, more generally, issues of translation and translatability in international, inter-linguistic, and inter-cultural relations. It will also address the colonial and post-colonial histories of France and Portugal. Deadline: September 20, 2021. More information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Artspace New Haven: Open Source 2021 Festival Artspace’s annual showcase featuring artists from New Haven and across the State of Connecticut. Open Source 2021 Festival (formerly City-Wide Open Studios) is Artspace’s annual visual arts showcase, happening on Friday, October 15 through Sunday, October 24th. This expanded virtual and in-person showcase features painters, sculptors, filmmakers, and photographers from New Haven and across the State of Connecticut. All artists living and working in the State of Connecticut can participate in Open Source. The non-refundable fee is $10. All participating artists will create a page on our online portal. Deadline: September 15, 2021. Artist registration >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for proposals 2022: Project Anywhere Project Anywhere is a global exhibition program designed to promote art at the outermost limits of location-specificity. Using a blind peer review model to replace the role of curator, Project Anywhere provides artists and artistic researchers working outside traditional exhibition systems with peer-validation, community support, and global dissemination of their work. Project Anywhere’s evaluation criteria stress that all proposals must make a clear and compelling case for a proposed project’s capacity to contribute to knowledge in an identified field of creative practice. Accordingly, it is expected that proposals identify related artistic precedents and relevant literature. Projects can be speculative or discursive in nature and can extend or contradict existing methodologies. If you are interested in submitting a proposal for our 2022 global exhibition program, please read our proposal guidelines and evaluation criteria here. Deadline: September 1, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) Open Call: Graduate Sweet Dreams Society The Graduate Sweet Dreams Society, a collaboration between Graduate Hotels and Grammy Award-winner DJ White Shadow (aka Paul Blair), is an immersive artist-in-residency program hosted at 10 Graduate Hotels locations across the country. Musicians, sculptors, podcasters, painters, designers — we welcome creators of all kinds into the Graduate Sweet Dreams Society. The attached document is a more detailed summary of the program and we invite you to please share this information across your network and with those who may be interested in participating. Deadline: August 25, 2021. Apply here >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody (opens in a new window) COA SEEKS TEACHING ARTISTS The Connecticut Office of the Arts (COA) is seeking two (2) teaching artists to participate in a paid professional development training program that will serve older adults living in senior apartment communities through residencies. COA will provide best practice strategies for working in the field of creative aging. The two teaching artists will work closely with a master teaching artist whose artistic discipline is songwriting. The two participating artists will each bring their own arts discipline into the process. Teaching artists are individual practicing artists who specialize in teaching both in the classroom and in the community. The passion and commitment, experience, knowledge and skills that teaching artists bring to the classroom and to the community help to engage students (of all ages) in authentic arts and arts integrated learning, and to advance creative and critical thinking. How to Apply: Interested Teaching Artists must complete an online application at the following link >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Call for Applications: Saas-Fee Summer Institute of Art 2021 | sonsbeek20→24 Online: August 18–22, 2021 The five-day Saas-Fee Summer Institute of Art program, Curating Noise: Reverberations and the Polyvocal, will take place online and in-person within the 12th edition of the quadrennial sonsbeek20→24, developed in close dialogue with its curatorial team (including artistic director Bonaventure Soh Bejeng Ndikung and co-curators Antonia Alampi, Amal Alhaag, Zippora Elders, and Aude Mgba) and framework, Force Times Distance. On Labour and its Sonic Ecologies, that invites and encourages different modes of listening to make audible that which is already there, but remains unseen and unheard. This special session of Saas-Fee Summer Institute of Art will focus on a contemporary conception of noise that builds from the idea of listening as a participatory practice. Where in the past noise was something to be controlled and suppressed, today noise and uncertainty are entangled with one another as key concepts in the production of contingency as a driving force of innovation, creativity and resistance. As Reza Negarestani surmises in his essay, “Contingency and Complicity,” the contingent artwork can become the basis for new interactions and dynamic processes that drive the artist to novel realizations and opens up the potential of the work not assumed at its inception. Deadline: August 10, 2021. More information and how to apply >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Master of Arts in Art Therapy and Counseling student April Sozanski seeks study participants Master of Arts in Art Therapy and Counseling program at Albertus Magnus College, April Sozanski is seeking participants for her thesis research study focused on art making. If you or someone you know fits the criteria in the flyer above and is interested in participating please reach out through email, asozanski@albertus.edu, at your earliest convenience. No artistic background is required. Participants will be provided a range of art materials which they may keep after the study. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody A photo of the AACC wall: the artwork will be within the approximate 30 x 20 feet area with windows on either side and the surface is made of red brick. Call for Artists: Requests for Proposals for Yale Asian American Cultural Center Public Art Installation Yale University’s Asian American Cultural Center (AACC) is seeking an artist(s) and/or artist teams interested in creating site specific original artwork to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the AACC. The AACC is located at 295 Crown Street, New Haven CT 06511. Established in 1981, the AACC is the third oldest of its kind on a U.S. college campus and exists as a result of Asian American student-led efforts to rally for a space on campus and thus remains today as a symbol of resistance, activism, visibility, and institutional recognition when Asian American invisibility was being fought. You can learn more about the AACC history and mission here. You can also review the AACC 40th Anniversary Virtual Museum for additional historical context. This opportunity is open to professional artists living anywhere in the United States. The application deadline is 12:00pm EST on Monday, July 12th. Find full information on Box >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Two Opportunities – Apply now! The Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts is currently seeking applications for SHIFT: A Residency for Arts Workers, supporting artists who work for cultural institutions in the greater NYC area, and the Studio Immersion Project (SIP) Fellowship, designed to immerse artists in the world of printmaking. SIP FELLOWSHIP: STUDIO IMMERSION PROJECT (SIP) FELLOWSHIP EFA ROBERT BLACKBURN PRINTMAKING WORKSHOP Residency Dates: January 17 - May 15, 2022 Studio Immersion Project (SIP) Fellowship is an intensive studio fellowship from January - May designed to immerse artists in the world of printmaking. SIP Fellows will acquire new techniques and build upon existing skills. Artists, from all media, who are interested in making printmaking a regular part of their creative practice are invited to apply. Need not be a printmaker. APPLY TO BE A SIP FELLOW >> Deadline: Sunday, July 25, 2021 at 11:59 pm EST SHIFT RESIDENCY: SHIFT: A RESIDENCY FOR ARTS WORKERS EFA PROJECT SPACE PROGRAM Residency Dates: January 10 - June 22, 2022 Residency Exhibition Dates: June 20 - July 23, 2022 SHIFT: A Residency for Arts Workers supports NYC-based artists who are also arts workers. SHIFT Artists-in-Residence share a studio space at EFA Center, benefit from monthly critique sessions and visiting curator and artist talks, and produce work for an exhibition in the summer. Applicants should hold the equivalent of full-time positions at arts organizations (or be recently laid off) and should not be concurrently enrolled in a degree-granting program. Additional guidelines and info through the link below. APPLY FOR SHIFT: A RESIDENCY FOR ARTS WORKERS >> Deadline: Sunday, July 25, 2021 at 11:59 pm EST Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Opportunity to become an AIR Institute Facilitator for the Connecticut Office of the Arts The Connecticut Office of the Arts - as the most recent AIR Institute Affiliate - will be working with AIR staff to train 36 AIR facilitators over the next three years in an effort to apply creative solutions to community-identified issues across the state. WEBINAR: Wednesday, June 16, 2021 | 9 - 10:30 AM Join on Zoom here >> AIR is a train-the-trainer method. It is collaborative and results-oriented. To learn about this paid opportunity to become an AIR facilitator join us at a live webinar on Wednesday, June 16, 20201 from 9-10:30 AM. Register here >> (not required but encouraged) ABOUT AIR INSTITUTE: Art Builds Business Builds Art. Air Institute believes a diversity of people, opinions, and experiences, at decision-making tables, make communities and economies stronger. We believe that historical and current inequities must be addressed and remedied. We work to ensure that our communities have full access to essential education, tools, and resources that build self-determination, resilience, cultural equity, and creativity. We practice and teach consensus-based collaboration. We believe every community is unique and should define its own measure of success: quality of life, economic stability, individual accessibility, and opportunity. What if more of us developed our creativity? And then we applied that creativity to everything we do. What new ventures would be started? What revolutionary ideas would emerge? The world would be different. And not just for artists and people in the art world, but for all of us. It sounds so simple. And yet, so much of our society is broken into silos, dividing those who are “creative.” Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Open Call for New Haven Road Race Design Contest The New Haven Road Race is hosting a design contest for their 2021 t-shirt! The contest is free to enter for anyone, and the winning design will be featured on 7,000 t-shirts at the annual Labor Day Road Race. This is a great opportunity for students’ design work to receive exposure, something to add to their resume, and a fun way to get involved in one of the country’s top road races! Deadline: June 15, 2021. Full information >> Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background image: CBC via GIPHY. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini