Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Teacher Education and Clinical Practice About Admission to TEP Undergraduate Graduate Residency/Clinical Practice Licensure/Apply Forms Praxis Events FAQ Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Praxis Exams Dates and Deadlines Scholarships & Awards Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Teacher Education and Clinical Practice PRAXIS Test Information PRAXIS Exams Information The following information is for candidates that need to take either the Core Academic Skills for Educators (Core) Tests or any of the Praxis II Series exams. The ETS Tennessee Praxis Homepage offers a list of required exams, a store for purchasing test prep, a calendar of test dates & times, online registration for your exams and more. Candidates registering for Praxis exams must enter the following codes when indicating where scores will be sent: University of Memphis: 1459 Department of Education of Tennessee: 8190 Also, it is important for candidates to enter their social security number on the registration form and the examination form. If candidates fail to do so, their scores will not be identifiable by the College of Education or the State Department of Education for licensure purposes. ETS charges a fee to reissue scores with Social Security Numbers. Study Resources Praxis Core For Praxis Core study resources, test-taking tips, and videos, click here! Praxis LibGuide The Praxis LibGuide is geared specifically toward test-taking resources for the College of Education. Discover research tips, books & ebooks, information and resources for the PRAXIS exam and more here>. Spring 2021 Resources We are offering a variety of Praxis supports this semester, Spring 2021. Complete this survey> to choose the supports that interest you. Praxis Bootcamp - Whole Group (February 5, 26, and March 9) Praxis Drop-ins (By Appointment, Individual and Small groups, content-specific) 1:1 Praxis Conversation with Mrs. Ayanna Perkins about goal development, resources and test results. Mock Tests - Practice tests Volunteer - If you have passed the exam and you want to provide live or on-demand support to your peers, please complete the survey. Your support is critical! Important Link For additional information on the required exams for Tennessee licensure, please visit www.ets.org. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.