Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State The Ohio State University Alumni Association GIVE NOW Activities and events Virtual engagement Upcoming events On-demand events Alumni Tours Rent event space Ohio State Alumni Awards 2022 Alumni Awards: Call for Nominations Membership Your membership Become a life donor Career Management Official ring Communities Alumnifire Alumni clubs and societies Find a club Find a society BuckeyeBuzz submission form Resources Buckeye Advocates Buckeye Room Classmates Current students Recent graduates Student-Alumni Council Student-Alumni Council Beat Tees Young Alumni Academy Pay forward Alumni Scholars Program Volunteer opportunities Scholarships Student recruitment Team Buckeye The Oval Collection Wines Buckeyes Helping Buckeyes News Ohio State Alumni Magazine Advertising Issues In Memoriam Go Buckeyes! Buckeye Football Ticket Process Ohio State Athletics Game Watch Game Watch Abroad About About us Contact info Staff directory Video collection The Engagement Center The Engagement Center Team Upcoming events View list of upcoming events Replay video Play video Ohio State Days are back! Enjoy an outing at the Columbus Zoo, cheer on the Columbus Crew or check out the Cleveland Guardians this summer. See dates June 1 - Aug. 31 Brutus’ Summer Reading Challenge Brutus’ Summer Reading Challenge is Back — for Kids and Adults! Register June 9 HireOhio Multi-University Alumni Career Fair Meet with recruiters from leading employers and network with area alumni at the HireOhio Career Fair, hosted by The Ohio State University. Register June 9 Join us for Wizard School at COSI After Dark! “I solemnly swear that I am up to no good” Register Find a club or society Continue friendships, find service opportunities and share your Buckeye experience. Search for a club Featured Ohio State Alumni Magazine articles Not receiving the print edition? Learn how to become a life donor or update your contact information. Servant on the streets Registered nurse Esther Flores ’01 gave up her day job to create safe spaces for victims of human trafficking. Driven by love and grit, she has created a network of havens that welcome these women and teens and provide food, respite and hope that a better tomorrow is possible. Read the full story Follow along as Ohio State Police Officer Ari Ross shares how she protects, teaches and, most of all, builds understanding. Enjoy a gallery curated by photographer Jo McCulty ’84, ’94 MA, who spent a career capturing Ohio State’s best angles. Learn some of the interesting places Buckeyes go when they fly out of The Ohio State University Airport. half a million alumni, one ohio state Show your spirit. Buckeye pride extends throughout the world. Use #BuckeyeforLife on social media and submit O-H-I-O photos that make you proud to be a Buckeye. Upload images Image of: Grand Canyon" Image of: Trip to Disney World" Image of: Girls weekend in Nashville (this year) - We are childhood friends and Ohio State alumni who get together once a year. We’re one letter short, but luckily The Westin lobby had a solution! Kelly (Dray) Lutz (Pharmacy) Johanna (Levenstein) Threm (Engineering) " Image of: Four of our alumni tour participants in the beautiful town of Bruges." Image of: Multiple Buckeyes on a boat in Colorado calls for an O-H-I-O!" ×Close Add your O-H-I-O image Browse all 15,000+ O-H-I-O images on the O-H-I-O site Ohio State Alumni Member Benefits Huntington National Bank We're invested in Buckeye Nation. Ohio State Alumni Association The Ohio State University © 2022 The Ohio State University Alumni Association Longaberger Alumni House | 2200 Olentangy River Road, Columbus, OH 43210 Contact: 614-292-2200 or 800-678-6355 | Webmaster | Page maintained by The Ohio State University Alumni Association Request an alternate format of this page | Web Services Status | Nondiscrimination notice