Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Teacher Education Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs UG Academic Records and Advising The Charles Butt Scholarship Graduate Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition Graduate Specializations Graduate Specializations Admission Tuition Bilingual Education Specialization Program English as a Second Language (ESL) Supplemental Specialization Gifted & Talented Specialization Learning Therapy Specialization Literacy Studies Mathematics Specialization Special Education Specialization STEM Specialization Urban Education Specialization Ph.D. Admission Course Descriptions ☰ Master of Education Program SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education nationally and among the top 3 public & private schools in Texas. Teacher Education Graduate Master of Education Program Apply Now Request More Information Course Descriptions Program Structure While our master’s degree programs incorporate various specializations, we also offer non-degree specialization and certification-preparation programs that are designed to satisfy the State Board for Educator Certification’s requirements in specific educational areas. The additional specialization training prepares teachers for the respective certification exams; all SBEC certifications require that a candidate pass a state test. These advanced credentials are attached to the standard teaching certificate, so as a prerequisite to earning a graduate certification, a candidate must already hold a bachelor's degree and the initial teaching certificate. This degree program is designed for completion within two years. All program requirements for the graduate degree must be completed within six years. Urban Education The Urban Education program is designed for teachers of diverse student populations who wish to cultivate more culturally responsive classrooms. Educators explore the historical context of urban education and learn how culturally responsive curricula increase student outcomes, reduce student behavioral infractions, and enhance teacher-student relationships. The 4-course sequence can be taken as standalone professional development. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. English as a Second Language (ESL) The ESL specialization is for practicing educators interested in working with ESL populations. Graduates are prepared to take the TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards) English as a Second Language (ESL) supplemental certification exam, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with ESL students populations. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Bilingual Education The Bilingual specialization is designed for teachers who work with students who do not speak English as their native language. Students who succeed in this four-course sequence are qualified to take the TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards) supplemental certification exam in bilingual education, a passing score on which qualifies them to work with students who do not speak English as their native language. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Gifted and Talented The Gifted and Talented specialization is ideal for teachers of the gifted and talented, both specialists and regular classroom teachers. Those who successfully complete the 3-course sequence (9 credits) are prepared to take the Gifted and Talented TExES (Texas Examination for Educator Standards); those who pass the exam earn GT certification. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Special Education The Special Education specialization is for practicing educators interested in working with students with special needs. Content mastery equips graduates to work with special-needs students; they are able to employ evidence-based practices, monitor response to intervention, individualize intervention based on assessed needs, understand special education law and policy, deliver positive-behavior support, and collaborate with the colleagues and families of special-needs individuals. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Mathematics The Mathematics specialization is for practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching mathematics. Those who successfully complete the 4-course sequence will have to the skills and knowledge to model effective mathematics instruction, translate evidence-based research into classroom teaching, differentiate with diverse learners, and instill creative problem solving. The program’s coursework can be applied to SMU’s M.Ed. degree. Early Literacy Scholars Program The Early Literacy Scholars Program is designed for K-5 classroom teachers in high-need public schools (including charters). Those who successfully complete the program’s 18-credit hours are equipped to provide comprehensive, coherent, and complete early-literacy programs in regular classrooms. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Literacy Studies The Literacy Studies specialization is ideal for teachers who desire to advance their knowledge of literacy instruction and assessment specifically for early literacy and late literacy and for those who desire to pursue Reading Specialist certification. Those who successfully complete the program will be more effective teachers, improving student outcomes in literacy. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) The STEM specialization is designed for practicing educators who wish to advance their content knowledge or pedagogical skills for the purpose of teaching science, technology, engineering, and mathematics content. Those who successfully complete the program are equipped to be more effective STEM educators. The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Learning Therapy The Learning Therapy specialization is ideal for individuals interested in working with children or adults who have dyslexia or related language learning disorders. Those who successfully complete the specialization are qualified to take the Alliance National Registration Exam for Multisensory Structured Language Education at the therapy level, a passing score on which qualifies the individual for membership in ALTA as a Certified Academic Language Therapist (CALT). The program's coursework can be applied toward SMU's M.Ed. degree. Graduate Admission Master of Education Program Master of Bilingual Education Master of Education: Educator Preparation Master of Education in Special Education Tuition and Scholarships Request Information Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Department of Teaching & Learning Contact Us 214-768-2346 teacher@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us Harold Clark Simmons Hall 6401 Airline Rd., Suite 301 Dallas, TX 75205 Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter