COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Faq Section Menu Abstract Instructions Frequently Asked Questions General Information Presentation Options What is Research? Submit your Abstract Judges Forms URCAF Winners UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH AND CREATIVE ACTIVITY FORUM Frequently Asked Questions Question: What is the schedule of events? Answer: Depending on the number of presentations and posters, the schedule will change each year. Participants will be emailed their presentation time and location following the abstract submission deadline. Below is a sample of the proposed schedule for 2022: 9:00 am – 9:30 am Registration 9:30 am - 1:00 pm Oral Sessions 10:00 am -12:00 pm Poster Viewing 9:30 am -11:00 pm Performances/Creative Activity Presentations 1:00-2:00 pm Lunch 2:00-2:30 pm Awards Presentation Question: Will I receive feedback from the judges? Answer: Yes, participants will be emailed the judges feedback about a week after the event. Question: What is the format of the presentation? Answer: The format is your choice and varies based on academic discipline. Consult your advisor for more detailed recommendations. Question: How should I dress? Answer: This is also your choice. However, business professional dress is recommended. Question: When do I load the slides for my oral presentation? Answer: Please meet your session moderator at least 15 minutes prior to your session in the presentation room. Load your slides to the laptop, and provide biographical information for the moderator to introduce you. Question: Do I have to be present to receive an award? Answer: To maintain the professionalism of the forum, all students are requested to attend the awards ceremony. However, as matters do arise, please let the moderator or chair know if you must be absent from the ceremony. Question: What are the awards? Answer: First place award winners in each category will receive $250, while second place winners will receive $100. the University Libraries is also awarding students for demonstrating research skills that utilize the Libraries' resources, including our collections, services, equipment, and facilities with up to three awards Question: Where will I be presenting? Answer: URCAF presentations will occur in classrooms in the RSC. Participants will be emailed their presentation room and time prior to the event. Question: How are the rooms arranged? Answer: The presentation rooms are arranged in conference style with a table and screen at front and rows of chairs. The poster session room(s) is arranged with rows of tables. Please arrive early to confirm the room layout. Question: What equipment is provided? Answer: For oral presentations, the presentation room has a projector and laptop. You need to bring your presentation on a flash drive. Be sure to load your presentation before the session begins. For poster presentations, a table and trifold poster board is provided. Question: Can I present a group project? A term project? A paper? Answer: Any form of research or creative activity is eligible. Oral and poster presentations are the two choices for participation. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©