By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Cultivating a Community Cultivating a Community Alumnus leverages an entrepreneurial spirit and passion for creating community to revitalize Central New York. Malls today differ from their glory days of the ’80s and ’90s. Gone are the neon lights beckoning shoppers in, music stores filled with rows of cassettes and later CDs, and kids using up a month’s worth of allowance in quarters at the arcade. The modern mall is becoming less about being a place to shop and more about bringing a community together. This is exactly what Ryan Benz G’11 had in mind when his company, Redev CNY, and his partners put in their bid to redevelop ShoppingTown mall in DeWitt, New York. “What I focus on first and foremost is the impact a project makes on the people,” says Benz, who earned a master’s degree in entrepreneurship and emerging enterprises from Syracuse University’s Martin J. Whitman School of Management. “From a civic perspective, this needs to add greater value to the quality of life of Central New York.” Culture is the reason why Benz first focused his efforts on opening several high-end apartment buildings and restaurants in the area, including Oh My Darling and its basement speakeasy The Fitz, which have been in operation for about three years. He and the development team are currently evaluating anchor stores for the new space, which they are calling District East, and envisioning what the overall atmosphere will look and feel like. “You're seeing greater interest in experiences,” Benz explains. “A traditional mall environment is not an experience. It's a place where you go shopping. Shopping is not the experience; the experience is how you feel when you're there.” Benz owns several high-end apartment buildings and restaurants in the Syracuse area, including Oh My Darling and its basement speakeasy, The Fitz. To that end, the site will include restaurants, apartments and condominiums, a movie theater, offices and medical suites, a grocery store, other entertainment attractions, and may connect to the local pedestrian and bike path along the Erie Canal. “Restaurants are cultural anchors. That's what brings the community together and that's what's important in terms of establishing cultures. A culture, which then leads to businesses, people wanting to come downtown and more jobs coming downtown.” By the time the project is finished, which will likely take several years, it will hardly resemble the mall that currently sits in the location. I would not have been qualified nor would I have had the opportunity to take my first job in real estate right out of school without my degree from Syracuse University. —Ryan Benz G’11 Redeveloping and starting businesses may seem like a far cry from playing trumpet, which is what Benz studied as an undergraduate at Montclair State University in New Jersey, but the entrepreneurial spirit was always in his blood. His first job was as a paper boy when he was 12 years old and while he was studying music, he ran a driveway repair company and invented a music notebook that he sold to college bookstores and music stores. “I grew up with this mentality that said, what else are we doing? Let's go.” Applying and Sharing Knowledge Benz is an active member of the Whitman School alumni, visiting campus to share his experiences as an entrepreneur. He’s judged the Orange Tank Pitch Competition in which current students and alumni entrepreneurs from the Whitman School pitch their business ventures for a cash prize. Benz credits his education at the Whitman School with giving him the experience and knowledge he needed to start working in real estate. After graduation, he took a job as a leasing agent for Destiny USA with Pyramid Management Group. “I would not have been qualified nor would I have had the opportunity to take my first job in real estate right out of school without my degree from Syracuse University.” It's such an honor to come back to Syracuse and help foster young entrepreneurs or real estate developers. —Ryan Benz G’11 Saying his degree made him more marketable to take that leap into real estate, it also gave him the confidence he needed. He and his wife, Leigh Ann, opened a chain of retail stores in New York and New Jersey called Lee Lee’s Forest before coming back to Central New York, where Benz grew up, to raise their son. Ryan Benz G’11, who earned a master’s degree in entrepreneurship and emerging enterprises, is developing District East in the former ShoppingTown Mall space in DeWitt with his company Redev CNY and his business partners. Now, as he works on District East, his restaurants and apartments, Benz also finds time to give back to his alma mater. He’s come back to share his experiences as an entrepreneur with the Entrepreneurship Club and the Real Estate Club, and to judge the Orange Tank Pitch Competition in which current students and alumni entrepreneurs from the Whitman School pitch their business ventures to judges and vie for a cash prize. “It's such an honor to come back to Syracuse and help foster young entrepreneurs or real estate developers. I think it's an obligation as an alumnus to support current students and one I absolutely love to participate in,” he says. Benz has even had some undergraduate Whitman School students intern for his company, saying they’ve all been impressive and have gone on to do great things, including attending law school. He says being part of the “vibrant” alumni network gives him the chance to rise to a level of expectation that is set for the professional network. “Having those alumni connections, both professionally and casually, means the world to me,” he says. “It's important to maintain and grow the caliber of our students and ultimately maintain and grow the caliber of our school. I believe that through that growth, our students will have better opportunities in their futures and be in the best position to continue the culture of excellence. It’s a lot of fun, and rewarding, to have an impact on the next generation of leaders.” Lisa Maresca This story was published on January 18, 2022. Also of Interest Link The Martin J. Whitman School of Management Link The Whitman School develops entrepreneurial managers who will become leaders in an era of global competitiveness. Programs are built around the major driving forces in business today: entrepreneurial management, globalization, use of technology and leadership. Syracuse Stories Link The Orange story has thousands of chapters. Discover some of the people, programs and research that fuel Syracuse University's undeniable spirit. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy