Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology About Directions Directions SMU is located approximately 5 miles north of downtown Dallas in University Park. The university is bordered by North Central Expressway, Hillcrest Avenue, Mockingbird Lane, and Daniel Avenue. Please note the specific parking directions that follow the general directions below. For exact directions to SMU, you may wish to consult the SMU website at smu.edu/maps/campus, or use an online map service. The address for Moody Parking Garage is Airline Rd. at SMU Blvd., Dallas TX 75205; Meadows Parking Garage, 5900 Bishop Blvd., Dallas TX 75205; and Binkley Parking Garage, 3101 Binkley Avenue. :: From U.S. 75 (North Central Expressway) Traveling from the north, exit SMU Boulevard or Mockingbird Lane and proceed along the access road to Mockingbird Lane. Turn west (right) on Mockingbird and travel two blocks to Bishop Boulevard. Traveling from the south, exit Mockingbird Lane and proceed west (left) two blocks to Bishop Boulevard :: From Hillcrest Avenue Traveling from the north, turn east (left) on Mockingbird Lane, then north (left) on Bishop Boulevard. Traveling from the south, turn east (right) on Mockingbird Lane one block to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Dallas North Tollway Travel south on Dallas North Tollway to the Mockingbird Lane exit. Proceed east on Mockingbird Lane past Hillcrest Avenue to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Denton Travel south on I-35 E to I-635 (LBJ Freeway), east on LBJ to U.S. 75 (Central Expressway). Proceed south on Central Expressway to the Mockingbird Lane exit. Turn west on Mockingbird Lane and proceed two blocks to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Waco Travel north on I-35 to I-30 East in downtown Dallas and east on I-30 to U.S. 75 (Central Expressway). Proceed north on U.S. 75 (sign indicates "Sherman") to Mockingbird Lane exit. Proceed west (left) on Mockingbird to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Interstate 30 Travel north on U.S. 75 (Central Expressway) to the Mockingbird Lane exit. Turn west on Mockingbird Lane and proceed two blocks to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport Take the North Exit from the airport to I-635 (LBJ Freeway). Travel east on I-635 to U.S. 75 (Central Expressway). Proceed south on Central Expressway to the Mockingbird Lane exit. Turn west on Mockingbird Lane and proceed two blocks to Bishop Boulevard. :: From Love Field Airport Turn left at the airport exit onto eastbound Mockingbird Lane. Proceed east on Mockingbird Lane to Bishop Boulevard. :: Parking for Perkins Proceed north on Bishop Boulevard from Mockingbird Lane about 300 feet to Schlegel Street. Turn right on Schlegel Street, then immediately left into the Visitor Entrance of the Meadows Museum Parking Garage. Parking is also available at the Binkley and Moody Parking Garages. About Perkins' Mission and Context Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Statement of Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share