Skip to main content Visit Remote Work Tools & Guidelines and Student Remote IT Support for details on working remotely under the University's Coronavirus (COVID-19) recommendations Search form Search ISC ... Search Find my LSP Penn System Status Menu Close Get Started IT Staff Faculty Staff Students Alumni & Guests ISC Staff Services — Services A to Z — Accounts, Access & Security Access Management Services Active Directory Identity Management Services Information Security Services Applications & Data Analytics Application Development & Delivery Data Analytics Data Analytics at Penn Integration Development & Delivery Backup, Storage & Platforms BackItUp Cloud Solutions Data Center & Colocation Solutions Database & Application Platform Support & Consulting Endpoint Management Recovery Solutions Storage Virtual Desktop Virtual Server Hosting Community, Support & Learning Classroom Technology Services Desktop Engineering IT Community Events Knowledge Link LinkedIn Learning Tech Center Consulting & Professional Services Brokered Products HireIT Systems Support & Consulting Technology Forecasting Email, Calendaring & Collaboration Classlists Penn Email Routing Penn+Box PennNet Mailing Lists PennO365 PennZoom SMTP-Relay Secure Share Networks & Connectivity Firewall Services Network Design & Installation PennNet Network Names & Numbers MAGPI (Penn's Internet2 Regional Optical Network) PennNet Ethernet Ports Wireless at Penn Phone, TV & Video Broadcasting Studio Contact Center Live Video Streaming Penn Video Network PennFlex Phone PennNet Phone Traditional Telephony Video Content Management Video Production Producing Video Content Web Hosting Web Services — Service Rates — — Service Level Agreements — Security Office of Information Security Security Services Special Projects Policies & Procedures Training & Awareness Collaborations Engaging Penn’s IT Community Computing Policies Identity & Access Management Cloud First Next Generation Unified Communications IT Advisory Groups Common Solutions IT Roundtable Network Policy Committee Penn Technology Investment Committee (PTIC) About PTIC The PTIC IT Development Fund Special Interest Groups (SIGs) Audio-Visual (AV-SIG) Cloud Computing (Cloud-SIG) Data Visualization (DataViz-SIG) Developer SIG (Dev-SIG) High-Performance Computing (HPC-SIG) Instructional Technology SIG Linux SIG Macintosh Networking Group (MacNet) Mobile Technologies (Mobile-SIG) O365 Special Interest Group PC Networking Group (PC-Net) Project Partners SIG Security SIG Social Media SIG Splunk Special Interest Group Super User Group (SUG) Web SIG Technology Services Strategy Review Board News Events About Overview Leadership & Groups Purpose & Values Strategic Goals Recognition Staff Profiles Tech Jobs @ Penn Contact Us Hot Topics Get Help Support Center Contact ISC Client Care Rates for All Services You are here Home » Enterprise Information & Analytics Enterprise Information & Analytics ISC’s Enterprise Information & Analytics group provides tools and services to guide strategic and operational decisions in Penn’s varied and diverse data culture. We support Penn's Data Warehouse and central data analytics toolset, including BusinessObjects and QlikView. Penn's Data Warehouse The University's Data Warehouse makes Penn's institutional data available to decision makers for query, analysis, and reporting.The Warehouse stores selected data from Penn's business systems, and is organized in subject areas listed below. The data is filtered, made consistent, and aggregated in various ways. Access to the Warehouse does not require formal programming skills; desktop tools such as BusinessObjects support analysis and reporting for authorized University users. The Warehouse is organized by subject areas, into "data collections"; you can access information about a collection and general information about Penn's Data Warehouse from each data collection's home page. Data collection information includes the collection's refresh schedule, data diagrams, table and data element documentation, data training, and data security. - All Collections - Subject Area Data Collection(s) Source(s) Alumni/Giving Advancement Atlas Facilities Facilities Work Requests FRES AiM maintenance and management system Space Space@Penn (TRIRIGA) Financial Assets BEN Assets (module of BEN Financials) BEN Billing and Receivables (BBR) BEN Billing and Receivables (module of BEN Financials) Express Mail eShip@Penn General Ledger BEN Balances (General Ledger module of BEN Financials) Planning RevExp Planning system ISC Billing: Mainframe Chargeback; Network; Telecommunications Assorted ISC billing systems Travel & Expense Management Concur Expense Global Global Activities Global Activities Registry (GAR) ISSS-iOffice International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) iOffice system World Travel Concur Travel Learning Management Learning Management Knowledge Link Personnel and Payroll Faculty: Interfolio, Faculty (FIS) Beginning in 2019: Interfolio Faculty Search (FS) Interfolio Review, Promotion & Tenure (RPT) Retired in 2019: Faculty Information System (FIS) Faculty People Admin Human Capital Management Workday Human Capital Management (HCM) (2019 and on) Position Inventory Position Inventory (retired in 2019) Salary Management PennWorks and Salary Management (mainframe) (retired in 2019) Research PennERA Proposals PennERA Research Inventory Research Inventory System (RIS) Student Admissions: Undergraduate, Graduate Undergraduate: Slate; Graduate: CollegeNet and Apply Yourself Billing: Pennant Accounts (Fall 2015 - ); Legacy Billing (through Summer 2015) Pennant Accounts; BRS Financial: Financial Aid (through Summer 2022), Pennant Financial Aid (Fall 2022 - ), Graduate Funding, Tuition Distribution Student Aid Management System (SAM); Grad Funding system; Tuition Distribution process Records :Student Records System ; Pennant_Student_Records ; Student Term Census Extract; Academic Planning Worksheets (legacy system, through Spring 2022); Degree Planning and Audit (Summer 2022 - ) Pennant Student Records, SRS (legacy system); Advisor InTouch and Requirements Builder (REQBUILD) Other: Course Evaluation; Career Tracker; Curriculum Management; Housing; Weingarten Learning Resources Center Blue; Career Tracker; Leepfrog CIM - Course Catalog; StarRez; WLRC Ethnicity and Race Penn People Country Codes Assorted data collections and ISO codes Direct Deposit PennWorks/Payroll and SRS PennERA Balances PennERA Proposals and General Ledger Balances Warehouse Infrastructure Warehouse Infrastructure Internal processes and Penn Community integration User Access Administration User security maintenance processes Alumni and Giving Data Collection(s) Source(s) Advancement Atlas Facilities For a brief overview of the collections, see Facilities Data Collections Quick Reference Guide (PDF). Data Collection(s) Source(s) Facilities Work Requests FRES AiM maintenance and management system Space Space@Penn (TRIRIGA) Financial View the financial systems landscape from a high-level. Data Collection(s) Source(s) Assets BEN Assets (module of BEN Financials) BEN Billing and Receivables (BBR) BEN Billing and Receivables (module of BEN Financials) Express Mail eShip@Penn General Ledger BEN Balances (General Ledger module of BEN Financials) Planning RevExp Planning system ISC Billing: Mainframe Chargeback; Network; Telecommunications Assorted ISC billing systems Travel & Expense Management Concur Expense Global Data Collection(s) Source(s) Global Activities Global Activities Registry (GAR) ISSS-iOffice International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) iOffice system World Travel Concur Travel Learning Management Data Collection(s) Source(s) Learning Management Knowledge Link Personnel (including Faculty) and Payroll Data Collection(s) Source(s) Faculty: Interfolio, Faculty (FIS) Beginning in 2019: Interfolio Faculty Search (FS) Interfolio Review, Promotion & Tenure (RPT) Retired in 2019: Faculty Information System (FIS) Faculty People Admin Human Capital Management Workday Human Capital Management (HCM) Position Inventory Position Inventory Salary Management PennWorks and Salary Management (mainframe) Research Data Collection(s) Source(s) PennERA Proposals PennERA Research Inventory Research Inventory System (RIS) Student Data Collection(s) Source(s) Admissions: Undergraduate, Graduate Undergraduate: Slate; Graduate: CollegeNet and Apply Yourself Billing: Pennant Accounts (Fall 2015 - ); Legacy Billing (through Summer 2015) Pennant Accounts; BRS Financial: Financial Aid (through Summer 2022), Pennant Financial Aid (Fall 2022 - ), Graduate Funding, Tuition Distribution Student Aid Management System (SAM); Grad Funding system; Tuition Distribution process Records: Student Records System;(legacy system, through Spring 2022) Pennant Student Records (Summer 2022 - ) Student Term Census Extract; Academic Planning Worksheets (legacy system, through Spring 2022); Degree Planning and Audit (Summer 2022 - ) SRS; Advisor InTouch and Requirements Builder (REQBUILD) Other: Course Evaluation; Career Tracker; Curriculum Management; Housing; Weingarten Learning Resources Center Blue; Career Tracker; Leepfrog CIM - Course Catalog; StarRez; WLRC Cross-Collection The Warehouse contains data from many source systems, organized by logical groupings, all in one Oracle database. Information from a source system (often a transactional system, but could also be another set of tables) is referred to as a data collection. For example, information from Pennant and SRS (Student Records System) is referred to as the Student Data Collection, while account balance information from the BEN Financials General Ledger is referred to as the General Ledger Data Collection. Combined Universes The co-location of data from these disparate sources allows for querying across collections, joining on common elements to retrieve results that one couldn't otherwise achieve from a single, isolated collection. Users writing their own SQL may join any tables to which they have access, after consulting the relevant collection documentation. Business Objects users can take advantage of universes that combine collections. Data Collection(s) Source(s) Ethnicity and Race Penn People Country Codes Assorted data collections and ISO codes Direct Deposit PennWorks/Payroll and SRS PennERA Balances PennERA Proposals and General Ledger Balances Warehouse Infrastructure Data Collection(s) Source(s) Data Warehouse Infrastructure Internal processes and Penn Community integration User Access Administration User security maintenance processes Additional details about the Warehouse and how it works: Technical Infrastructure The University's Data Warehouse is an Oracle 12.1.0.2.5 (12c) relational database management system (RDBMS). The database is over 2 TB in size and resides on a Dell PowerEdge R530 server with 64 GB of memory and 32 CPUs, running under Red Hat Linux 6.7 (64-bit). Relationship of the Warehouse to Transaction Systems Transaction systems handle the day-to-day functions of a business--recording, processing, and storing operational data. Examples of transaction systems at Penn include the Pennant, BEN Financials General Ledger, PennWorks, PennERA. These systems handle operations such as enrolling a student in a course, changing a student's major, creating journal entries, managing sponsored programs. Transaction systems, however were not designed to provide managers with the information they need to conduct trend analyses or to undertake longitudinal studies that require use of historical University data. Data Warehouses, unlike transaction systems, are specifically designed to handle these types of management queries and analyses. Data in the Warehouse is for queries only. That is, you cannot add, change, or delete data in the Warehouse. These activities are done only in the source transaction systems. How the Warehouse is Built and Refreshed To build the Warehouse, data from the transaction systems was analyzed (each piece of data evaluated for inclusion into the Warehouse), "cleaned" (old codes converted into new codes, existing data redefined), and restructured (entities broken apart and new entities created). The data was then summarized and arranged in a format to support analysis and reporting. In some instances, additional data elements were calculated to support a particular analysis. The Warehouse is refreshed periodically, using the transaction systems as its source of data. That is, programs extract data from a transaction system and translate it into Warehouse format. The formatted files are than transferred and loaded into the Warehouse. The data is than available for analyses and reports. Note that each data collection has its own refresh cycle governing when its data is periodically updated in the Warehouse. For example, one data collection may be refreshed daily, while others may be refreshed hourly or once a term. Thus, data in the Warehouse reflects the most recent refresh cycles for the data collections. Recipients of reports from the Data Warehouse need to be aware of this "delay" in Warehouse data. Refresh schedule information is noted in the documentation for each collection. What the Warehouse Contains Data Collections The Warehouse contains data from transaction systems. The information from each transaction system is referred to as a data collection. For example, information from Pennant and SRS (Student Records System) is referred to as the Student Data Collection, while account balance information from the BEN Financials General Ledger is referred to as the Genera Ledger Data Collection. Note that depending on your authorization level, you may or may not have access to a specific data collection. If you have questions about a specific data collection or want access to a collection, contact Enterprise Information & Analytics. Tables Each data collection in the Warehouse is organized in a set of related tables. Each table consists of data elements that describe or qualify an item of business significance. For example, the Student Data Collection has an ADDRESS table with data elements such as Penn ID, street address, etc. The collection also has a PERSON table with data elements such as Penn ID, name, birth date, etc. The ADDRESS table is related to the PERSON table through the Penn ID. Because the data is stored in tables, it is easy to access just the data you need, rather than having to plow through all the data in the data collection. A table may be a part of more than one data collection. Note that some data elements in tables are indexed (indexed columns are noted in the documentation for each table). Indexing enables the system to execute queries faster. A query with a record selection condition using an indexed data element tells the system to go directly to the rows in the table that contain the value indicated and to stop retrieving data when the value is no longer found. If a query does not select records based on an indexed data element in its record selection condition, the system starts searching at the first row in the table and works through every row until it reaches the last row in the table. Tables can contain hundreds of thousands or even millions of rows (for example, one table contains 93,000 students, about 250,000 addresses, and approximately 700,000 enrollments). Thus, queries that do not use indexed data elements for record selection will run slowly. Table Help. Help documentation is available for each table in the Warehouse, accessible via a hyperlink from the table name. Help describes the basic contents of the table. If applicable, it also gives the following information: Explanation. Describes the physical makeup or content of the table. Common uses. Describes some queries that would make use of the table. Primary key. Lists the data elements that are the primary keys in the table. Indexed data elements. Lists the data elements that are indexed in the table. Since tables can consist of many rows, queries that include record selection conditions based on indexed data elements provide faster results. Related tables. Identifies other tables that may be meaningful to your query. That is, tables that are good candidates for containing information that you may want to include in your results. For example, if you are using the Enrollment table to list students in a specific course section, you may want to use the Person table to get the students' names. Cautions. Provides additional guidance, help, or explanation about a table. It can also include recommendations that must be followed to prevent poor query results. Data Elements The smallest unit of data that you can work with is called a data element. A data element cannot be logically divided any further without losing its meaning or context. Zip code, last name, and SSN are examples of data elements that cannot be logically divided any further without becoming meaningless. In contrast, student and address are not data elements because they can be logically divided into more units of data. Data Element Help Help documentation is available for each data element in the Warehouse. Help describes the data element and includes its indexed, format, and not null values. If applicable, it also provides a list of valid values for the data element. Values for data elements can be listed in alphabetical order or in the order most frequently used. The primary datatypes used in the Date Warehouse are CHAR (character), DATE and NUMBER. Element formats are indicated by the datatype, length and, for NUMBER types, precision and scale. The format of Name column in the EMPLOYEE_GENERAL table, for example, is listed as CHAR(30), meaning that the column is of character datatype, and holds a maximum of 30 characters. Numeric datatypes (such as Payment_Amount in the EMPLOYEE_PAYMENT table) have a specified precision and scale. Precision is the total maximum length of the column, while scale represents the number of places to the right of the decimal. For example, the format for EMPLOYEE_PAYMENT.Payment_Amount is represented by NUMBER(9,2), meaning that the column is of numeric datatype, with a total of 9 characters of which 2 are to the right of the decimal point; thus, the maximum value is 9999999.99. Summary Data One major advantage of the Data Warehouse is that it contains data at different levels of summarization. For example, you could retrieve data as individual transactions or as summaries by week, by month, or by year. Note that additional levels of summarization can be added to the Warehouse as needed and as resources allow without impacting existing data. Summary data are different for every data collection in the Warehouse. For example, the Student Data Collection includes a student detail level which consists of the basic SRS tables, and the student census level which is a snapshot of student term activity taken at the census date (one week after the end of the drop period). The student detail level changes daily. The student census level, once loaded for a given term, remains static and never changes for that term. The advantage of the student census level is that you can run hundreds of queries on a hundred different days, and run them ten years from now and still have the same numbers for comparison. The census level is the data Penn uses for official enrollment statistics, for example, for providing data to the state and federal governments. In the General Ledger Data Collection, the SUMMARY_BALANCES table contains budget, encumbrance, and actual balances for summary-level Accounting Flexfields by accounting period. Balances are available for the month, the fiscal year-to-date, and the project year-to-date. If you need to know what summary data are available for a specific data collection, refer to the documentation for that data collection. Share: Facebook Twitter Print Query Tools Introduction BusinessObjects BI Launch Pad BusinessObjects Tips & FAQs QlikView Access Point QlikView Tips & FAQs Resources Access Forms Current Load Status Password Changer Warehouse Information Guidelines for Writing Queries Security Support Services Training Other Information Data Analytics at Penn Contact EI&A Computing Policies Tech Jobs @ Penn System Status © 2022 THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA — 3401 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104 — Report accessibility issues and get help — For ISC Staff