Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF EDUCATION COLLEGE OF EDUCATION EARLY CARE AND EDUCATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ECE 201 Introduction to Early Care and Education (2) I&S Explores current and historical themes, research, and programs in the field of early care and education, offering students the opportunity to explore their own professional identities. Co-requisite: ECE 220. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 201 ECE 220 Equity in Early Care and Education I (3) Drawing upon the history of multicultural education, social justice education, culturally responsive and sustaining pedagogies, critical perspectives in early childhood education, and anti-bias education, this course supports professionals serving young children and families to develop skills needed to engage in equitable practices. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 220 ECE 221 Equity in Early Care and Education II (1) Builds on foundations of critical pedagogy, social justice education, and culturally responsive and sustaining pedagogies. Focuses on the intersections of identity (e.g., class, dis/ability, and gender), self, systems of power and privilege, and working with young children. Designed to better understand how art and children's texts can be used as tools for equity. Prerequisite: ECE 220. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 221 ECE 222 Equity in Early Care and Education III (1) Builds on foundations of critical pedagogy, social justice education, and culturally responsive and sustaining pedagogies. Focuses on the intersections of identity (e.g., race, ethnicity, language, and sexual identity), self, systems of power and privilege, and working with young children. Designed to better understand how art and children's texts can be used as tools for equity. Prerequisite: ECE 220. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 222 ECE 307 Early Childhood Curriculum I: From Observation and Assessment to Planning (10) Fosters the knowledge and skills needed to promote learning and development for young children through creating curriculum, including child observation, assessment, and planning. Helps transfer learning to early care and education settings and situations. First in a two-quarter series. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 307 ECE 308 Early Childhood Curriculum II: Engaging Interactions and Individualizing (10) Fosters the knowledge and skills needed to promote learning and development for young children through creating and implementing curriculum, including engagements and individualizing for all learners. Helps students apply learning to early care and education settings and situations. Second in a two-quarter series. Prerequisite: ECE 307. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 308 ECE 322 Engaging Interactions and Environments: Instructionally Supportive Interactions (4) I&S Importance of equitable high-quality early childhood education. Specific types of environments and responsive instructional interactions that support children's thinking, language, and problem-solving. One of a two-part series. Recommended: child development course. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 322 ECE 323 Engaging Interactions and Environments: Social and Emotional Support and Well-Organized Classrooms (3) I&S Focus on importance of equitable high quality early childhood education, and specific types of environments and responsive instructional interactions that support children's social, emotional, and self-regulatory skills. Second of a two-part series. Recommended: child development course. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 323 ECE 401 Introduction to Research in Early Care and Education (5) I&S, QSR Focuses on the kinds of knowledge, ways of knowing, and modes of inquiry relevant to early care and education. Through identifying and reviewing substantive research in their areas of interest, students locate ideas for inquiry within the research literature in early care and education. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 401 ECE 402 Social Policy in Early Care and Education (5) I&S Seeks to deepen understanding of contemporary social issues and problems that impact families and young children. Discusses legislation and other policies from a local, national, and global perspective. Explores the complex web of social, private, and governmental organization that impact families and young children. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 402 ECE 419 Family and Community Engagement (5) I&S Focuses on the key role that family and community contexts play in supporting development, as well as the key role early childhood programs can play in promoting family engagement. Participants examine interdisciplinary principles on how best to support a developing child's primary relationships through family engagement, and responsiveness to differences between families. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 419 ECE 450 Professional Development for Early Childhood Educators (2) Helps identify individual strengths, set professional goals, and practice necessary professional skills, such as job-searching, networking, and developing oral and written proficiency. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 450 ECE 456 Senior Project (10) Synthesizes and demonstrates learning across the ECE major. Brings together research, theory, and hands-on practice in service learning in order to highlight overall degree competencies and promote development of a professional portfolio. Prerequisite: ECE 450. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ECE 456 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022