Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Resources Admissions Search Academics Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research About U-SoA Philosophy and Mission Statement History of the School Community Outreach Accreditation Give to U-SoA Roadmap Initiative Contact Us News and Events U-SoA Now Newsletter Events Golf 2021 All News Calendar People Academic Leadership Students Faculty Alumni Staff Academics Undergraduate Graduate Design Build Travel Programs U-SoA Rome Summer Programs for High School Students Research Certificates Resources Careers Academic Services Libraries Facilities Labs and Centers Student Affairs International Affairs C.U.C.D. Admissions Admission Requirements Visit U-SoA Financial Aid and Scholarships Registration Tuition and Fees Graduate Assistantships About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research Resources Admissions Home Academics AAA Academics About U-SoA News and Events People Academics Design Build Undergraduate Graduate U-SoA in Rome Travel Programs Summer Programs for High School Students Certificates Research Resources Admissions GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply The School of Architecture prides itself on its Academics: The Bachelor of Architecture degree, a five-year program, for professional registration and specialized study. The B.S.A.E/M.Arch. program is a six-year program which leads to both a B.S. degree in Architectural Engineering and the M.Arch. degree in Architecture. This program allows students to earn a Bachelor of Architecture and a Master of Architecture. The Master of Architecture degree is designed for college graduates desiring a first professional degree; with a 3-year or Advanced Standing Track. The two-year Master degree is available to students wishing to develop a specialization in architectural theory and practice. U-SoA also offers an 12-month Master of Science for those looking for specialized training in one of five tracks: Classical and Traditional Architecture, Computational and Embedded Technology, Healthcare Design, Historical Preservation or Resilient Sustainable Building Technology. Both the Master of Urban Design and Master of Real Estate Development and Urbanism programs are one year long, post-professional programs. Other dynamic programs offered are the Rome Program and the Open City Studios. Undergraduate The University of Miami School of Architecture is recognized for educating students for success in a range of professional opportunities. Graduate Initiated in 1989, the current Graduate Programs at the University of Miami - School of Architecture have expanded to five areas U-SoA in Rome U-SoA sponsors Fall and Spring semester programs in Rome, Italy. Founded in 1991, the program unites a select group of upper level students and faculty for an intensive experience. Travel Programs U-SoA offers a variety of study abroad programs. These courses are credit-earning, fulfilling-required, and elective components of the curriculum. Summer Programs for High School Students The Summer Scholars, Explorations in Architecture and Design program at the U-SoA is a pre-college course designed for students who are interested in architecture and design Certificates U-SoA offers Classical Architecture and Historic Preservation Certificates. Research At U-SoA Research is central to the mission in advancing knowledge within the discipline of the curriciulum. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Architecture 1223 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284 3731 (305) 284 3731 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices