Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dance MFA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dance MFA Apply Request More Info Dance MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Fine Arts in Dance The Master of Fine Arts in Dance in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance is designed for dance students and artists who seek a deeper understanding of dance as a performing art and mode of inquiry. Through its interdisciplinary curriculum, you’ll advance your artistic practice while interacting with cultural, political and social perspectives of dance. Graduates pursue careers in artistic direction and choreography, as well as dance administration, advocacy, entrepreneurship, research, writing and teaching in higher education. You’ll acquire holistic knowledge of multiple perspectives in the field, engage with the evolving aesthetics and pedagogies of professional dance practices, and research your personal artistic qualities and style. The curriculum is offered on a full-time or part-time basis, and it is fully accredited by the National Association of Schools of Dance. Coursework enables you to challenge your artistic viewpoints and directions; create, interpret, and present dance works; participate fully in choreographic research and production; and refine your critical thinking skills in relation to current discourses in dance. All students create a final master’s presentation of choreographic research, as well as a written thesis that documents and reflects on their research process and final work. You’ll work closely with a primary concert advisor and committee, made up of internationally known artists and scholars. Learn more about the Dance MFA faculty. Choosing between the MFA and MA The Master of Fine Arts in Dance emphasizes dance as a performing art. Experienced and emerging professionals hone their vision and skills as performing artists and teachers. Students create, interpret and present works, and they study aesthetics of contemporary practice in a pluralistic world. The Master of Arts in Dance is uniquely designed for students who are interested in a one-year intensive graduate program that emphasizes creativity, research and teaching. The curriculum also serves as a pathway to doctoral programs for those students who seek to further their study of dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover dance faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer dance degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Dance MFA curriculum emphasizes the skills needed to become a socially aware, technically proficient and versatile artist. Coursework prepares you for success in a variety of careers due to its rigorous investigation of modern dance techniques and choreography. Some of your courses will include Concepts of Culture, Dancing Self in Community, Dancing the City, Educational Inquiry in Dance, Embodied Craft, Modal Practice, Structure & Performance, and The Body Politic. Learn more about required courses for the Dance MFA. Related Graduate Degrees Dance MA Dance PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Fine Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Karen Bond is chairperson and interim coordinator of graduate studies in the Dance Department. Phone: 215-204-6280 Email: karen.bond@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. D2D: Dare To Dance is a dance company that strives to spread a love of the arts through dance, performance and workshops. D2D competes in local competitions, such as Battle on Broad, and national competitions, like Prelude Urban Dance Competition and World of Dance. Esencia Latina provides students with the opportunity to explore, educate, and experience the Latino culture through the art form of dance and perform for the community and university. Ladies of Elegance Step is the only recognized, all-female, non-Greek step organization at Temple's Main Campus. The group promotes fitness, health and self-confidence among its members while cultivating the art of stepping. Ladies of Elegance Step represents Temple University at competitions along the East Coast. Temple Breakers, the first official break-dancing organization at Temple University, provides practice spaces for dancers of all experience levels, as well as free workshops led by professional dancers working in the greater Philadelphia area. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-DANC-MFA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dance MFA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Master's Audition Requirements Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info