Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Mission & History STM Values Facts & Figures STM Global Diversity at STM Contact Us and Staff Directory Accreditation and Educational Effectiveness Related Links Strategic Plan STM News About BC Admission Overview Why Choose STM? How To Apply Funding Your Studies Scholarships & Assistantships Federal Financial Aid Webinars and Campus Visits Request Information Meet the Admissions Team Partnerships Related Links Living in Boston Facts & Figures FAQ New Student Information Academics Overview Programs Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Hybrid M.A. in Theology and Ministry Master of Theology (Th.M.) Ph.D. in Theology and Education Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Bachelor of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Post-Master's Certificate Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Hispanic Ministry Programs Dual Program with M.S.W. Dual Program with M.B.A. Dual Program in Counseling Nondegree Coursework Summer at STM Intensive on the 19th Annotation for Spiritual Directors Courses Summer at STM Summer at Linz Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Jeffrey Von Arx, S.J. John F. Baldovin, S.J. André Brouillette, S.J. Francine Cardman Vicente Chong, S.J. Richard J. Clifford, S.J. Andrew R. Davis Daniel J. Daly Dominic F. Doyle Brian Dunkle, S.J. Angela Kim Harkins Colleen M. Griffith Margaret Eletta Guider, O.S.F. Barton T. Geger, S.J. Franklin T. Harkins Thomas H. Groome Mary Jo Iozzio David W. Jorgensen Maria Kakavas L. Callid Keefe-Perry Melissa Kelley Richard Lennan Rafael Luciani Christopher R. Matthews Catherine Mooney Matthew S. Monnig, S.J. Hosffman Ospino Theresa A. O'Keefe Félix Palazzi Andrea Ponzone, J.C.D., LL.B. William D. Roozeboom Jane E. Regan Walter J. Smith, S.J., Ph.D. Thomas D. Stegman, S.J. Judith A. Talvacchia O. Ernesto Valiente Benjamin Valentin Andrea Vicini, S.J. Joseph E. Weiss, S.J. Faculty Expertise New Testament Abstracts Student Research International Fellows Theology and Ministry Library Related Links BC Theology Department Lumen et Vita (STM Student Journal) Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Ricci Institute for Chinese-Western Cultural History Center for Teaching Excellence Community Overview Liturgy & Worship Diversity & Dialogue Formation Living in Boston Our Spaces Career Development Student Forum Related Links Current Student Resources BC Campus Ministry BC Graduate Student Life STM Alumni Resources Continuing Ed Overview Crossroads Formación Continua Campus Events / Webinars Registration Instructions STM Webinar Zoom Help Encore The Journey Continues Calling Out From the Depths Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Close Directory A to Z Listing Search STM site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Incoming Students – Summer 2022 Current Students Employers Alumni Veterans BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics Academics Programs Courses Summer at STM Supervised Ministry Spirituality Studies Programs in Hispanic Theology and Ministry STM From a Distance Academics Education With Conviction What does it mean to be immersed in both theology and ministry? We balance theory and practice, approaching theology as an academic discipline and a personal pursuit—engaging with it intellectually and with intense reflection—while connecting to active ministry that prepares our students as agents of transformation in the world and in the church. Our students and faculty also prioritize cooperation and collaboration—working across our programs, with esteemed scholar-educators in STM and the Boston College Theology Department, and with renowned thinkers at the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium and throughout the region. Related Links Current Student Resources Dual Degrees Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium Arts at STM Certificates & Nondegree Programs, Degrees & Certificates Degrees Certificates Non-Degree Degrees The STM offers a number of degree programs that prepare students for ministries that are as diverse as the composition of our student body: Jesuits and other candidates approved for ordination studies, women and men for lay ecclesial ministries and for service rooted in faith, and scholars preparing for careers in academia. Master of Divinity (M.Div.) Master of Theological Studies (M.T.S.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) Master of Arts in Theology and Ministry (M.A.) - Hybrid Model Dual Degree Programs Master of Theology (Th.M.) Doctor of Philosophy in Theology and Education (Ph.D.) Bachelor's of Sacred Theology (S.T.B.) Licentiate in Sacred Theology (S.T.L.) Doctorate in Sacred Theology (S.T.D.) Discern Your Program Compare Degrees and Certificates As part of your degree program, you may complete one of four interdisciplinary certificates: Through Boston College Center for Human Rights and International Justice: Certificate in Human Rights and International Justice Through Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium: Certificate in International Mission and Ecumenism Certificate in Religion and Conflict Transformation Certificate in Interreligious Leadership Certificates Certificate programs are available for those who do not wish or need to commit to a degree program. Certificates can be completed in both the academic year and summers. Learn more about each of our certificates below. Post-Master's Certificate in Spiritual Formation Certificate in Theology and Ministry Certificate in Hispanic Ministry Certificate in Religious Education Certificate in Christian Spirituality Certificate in Ignatian Spirituality Certificate in Spiritual and Pastoral Care Discern Your Program Compare Degrees and Certificates Nondegree The STM is committed to providing the opportunity for professional development and ongoing formation for today’s Church. Every person interested in exploring the important issues of the Church today can find a workshop, lecture, or course to meet his or her interest– whether professional or personal. Our programs are designed to fit into a variety of schedules, with day, evening, weekend, and online programs during the academic year, as well as one- or two-week courses held during the summers. Nondegree Coursework: Special Student Status Intensive on the 19th Annotation of the Spiritual Exercises Summer at STM STM Online: Crossroads (Continuing Education) Conferences, Lectures, Workshops, Seminar Series Discern Your Program Compare Degrees and Certificates Meet Our Faculty Learn from those committed to the highest standards of teaching, research, and the pursuit of a just society. Faculty Directory Theology and Culture Dominic F. Doyle Spirituality and Embodiment Colleen M. Griffith The Early Church Brian Dunkle, S.J. The Theology and Ministry Library Our 300,000-volume collection contains resources covering biblical studies, Catholic theology, canon law, Jesuitica, and other topics. The atrium gallery hosts distinctive exhibits and other events. Students can also reserve private study carrels. the tml Academic Tools Supervised Ministry Library Faculty Directory Courses Back To Top Back To Top School of Theology and Ministry Simboli Hall 9 Lake Street Brighton, MA 02135-3841 617-552-6501 About Admission Academics Faculty & Research Continuing Ed/Formación Continua Community Apply Visit Give Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College