Skip to content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Menu Close About ECE Welcome from the Chair School Profile and National Rankings ECE Presence at Georgia Tech Campuses ECE Buildings ECE Advisory Board Academics Courses and Majors Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Professional Education Accreditation Academic Enrichment Interdisciplinary Design Commons Scholarships & Financial Assistance Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Outreach Why Study ECE? Pre-College Programs College Programs Resources Research Technical Interest Groups Bioengineering Computer Systems and Software Digital Signal Processing Electrical Energy Electromagnetics Electronic Design and Applications Nanotechnology Optics and Photonics Systems and Controls Telecommunications VLSI Systems and Digital Design Research Patents Research Groups & Laboratories Research Centers ECE Faculty Companies Media & Calendar News and Awards Calendar of Events Graduate Student Events Media Resources Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Contact Apply Give Visit Advisory Board Search Search form Enter your keywords User Navigation Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Industry Partners Alumni You are here: GT Home Home Research Technical Interest Groups Nanotechnology Nanotechnology is concerned with the emerging of enabling nano-scale materials and devices, including the design, analysis, and realization of enabling systems. The invention of the transistor and the integrated circuit marked the genesis of microelectronics and set the stage for the unprecedented technological advances of the 20th century, which impacted virtually every aspect of modern life. Indeed, it is said that no invention in the history of humanity has so quickly spread throughout the world, or so profoundly pervaded so many aspects of human existence as the microprocessor. The field of nanotechnology has enabled such life-altering breakthroughs as implantable cardiac pacemakers, personal computers, wireless cellular telephones, optoelectronic-fiber networks, communication satellites and the Internet. ECE offers its graduate students many opportunities to work as Graduate Research Assistants or Graduate Teaching Assistants. Virtually all Ph.D. students receive funding support through teaching or research. View Faculty members for Nanotechnology Research ECE's Nanotechnology group is internationally recognized for their leadership in research and education in this dynamic field. This group is affiliated with three world class research centers, which play a defining role in Nanotechnology. Each of these centers is led by a senior ECE faculty member. University Center for Excellence in Photovoltaic Research and Education 3D Systems Packaging Research Center Center for MEMS and Microsystems Technologies (CMMT) Principal funding for these centers comes from the U.S. Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, the Georgia Research Alliance, and the State of Georgia. Other sponsors supporting the research of these and other projects include ITT, Boeing Aerospace Company, Texas Instruments, Semiconductor Research Corporation, the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Department of Defense, and the National Aeronautic and Space Administration. Nanotechnology research falls within the following major areas: Nano Devices and Systems Photovoltaics and Electro-optical Systems Integrated Sensor Systems Biomedical Applications Next Generation Electronic Packaging and Integration Compound Semiconductor Devices and Systems Academics The depth and breadth of faculty expertise in all areas of nanotechnology is reflected in the educational program. The curriculum consists of a series of core courses in devices and technology, supplemented by multiple opportunities for in-depth study of specific topics. The core courses are Introduction to Microelectronics Technology, Introduction to the Theory of Microelectronics, and Theory of Microelectronic Devices. This is supplemented by a series elective courses spanning all areas of this dynamic and growing field. Last revised October 4, 2021 Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct EU General Data Protection Regulation Privacy Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Facebook Twitter YouTube © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology