Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us About Life at McCombs Virtual Tour The McCombs Difference Our Values Facts and Rankings Our History Leadership Diversity Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives DEI Committee Elevate Conference By the Numbers Invest in McCombs A Million for McCombs Capital Campaign Stewardship and Donor Relations Scholars Program FAQ Contact Us Centennial Commencement Keynote Speakers Contact Coronavirus Student Guide AboutCommencement COMMENCEMENT Longhorns, we applaud you as you approach the end of your academic program at the McCombs School of Business and The University of Texas at Austin. We’re proud of what you have achieved during your time here, and we’re ready to celebrate you. Quick Links Celebrate Your Grad Commencement Schedule Keynote Speakers Regalia FAQ A commencement message from Dean Mills CELEBRATE YOUR GRAD Share your graduation excitement with #McCombsGrad22 Show Your Pride Personalized invitations, yard signs and souvenirs are available for purchase in the (graduation department in the basement). Order Here McCombs Commencement Schedule Date Program Time and Location Contact Friday, May 20 Watch Live BBA Frank Erwin Center, 8 - 11 a.m. Erica Garza Friday, May 20 Watch Live MS Programs Gregory Gymnasium, 11:30 a.m. - 1 p.m. Allison Wilden Friday, May 20 Watch Live MBA Programs Gregory Gymnasium, 3 p.m. Ashley Jones Saturday, May 21 Watch Live MPA Program Gregory Gymnasium, 12:30 - 2 p.m. MPA Events Saturday, May 21 MSTC Program Robert Rowling Hall: Zlotnik Ballroom, 3:30 - 5 p.m. Marcus Coleman Saturday, May 21 Ph.D. Bass Concert Hall, 11:30 a.m. Danielle Thoma Program Ceremony Details BBA Details May 20, 2022 8 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Frank Erwin Center Keynote Speaker J.D. Moore, BBA ’93 BBA Guest Information Guests do not have to RSVP and there will not be a guest limit. Guests of graduates will NOT need tickets or to RSVP or Register. Graduation Process Certification is how UT awards your degree. If you don't go through this process, you're not considered a graduate of McCombs and UT Austin. Your audit will need to be at 100% before we can certify you, but if you plan on being at 100% by the end of the current semester, you can apply for certification. Deadline: April 4, 2022 Commencement is the graduation ceremony. Sometimes referred to as "walking the stage," this is the celebration of your accomplishments with caps and gowns and family and friends. You can walk even if you're not being certified but will need to make sure to RSVP. Deadline: April 15, 2022 (if deadline is missed, you will not be in the commencement program) Apply here to be both certified and participate in commencement. Special Services Accommodations for the needs of graduates with disabilities at all commencement events are available. Please contact Commencement@mccombs.utexas.edu at least five business days prior to the event. MBA Details Master of Business Administration (MBA) Programs May 20, 2022 3 p.m. – 5 p.m. Gregory Gym Keynote Speaker Lanaya Irvin, MBA ’08 MPA Details When Saturday, May 21, 12:30 p.m. Where Ceremony – Gregory Gym, 12:30 – 2:30 p.m. Reception – 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. GSB Atrium Student Ceremony Arrival Time 10:30 a.m. Commencement Speaker Carlos Whitaker, BA, BBA, MPA ’00 Guests There are no limits on the number of guests and there are no tickets required for entry. Please note that guests will not be allowed into the venue to save seats until the doors open (~12:00 p.m.) Parking The closest parking garage is the Brazos Garage. See parking on campus during graduation weekend for other parking options or view the Campus Parking Map. Regalia: Purchase Deadline – April 29 There is NEW Master’s gown this year with a burnt orange flat braiding down the front panel. All MPA Students must wear Master’s Regalia (students may not wear the undergraduate robe). All regalia can be purchased from the CO-OP. For more information about regalia or to purchase online, please visit the co-op website. Disability Services If a family member requires special accommodation, please let Makenzie Kleszcz know no later than April 29. Live Stream For family members and guests who cannot attend graduation, we will live stream the ceremony. Link will be posted here and sent to students in advance of graduation. MS Program Details When Friday, May 20, 11:30 a.m. Where Ceremony – Gregory Gym, 11:30 a.m. – 1:15 p.m. Reception – 1:15 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. MSBA/MSITM – Atrium MSF/MSM – Hall of Honors Commencement Speaker Jill Lampert, Chief Financial and Administrative Officer, NGP Guests There are no limits on the number of guests and there are no tickets required for entry. Please note that guests will not be allowed into the venue to save seats until the doors open (~11:00 a.m.) Parking The closest parking garage is the Brazos Garage. See parking on campus during graduation weekend for other parking options or view the Campus Parking Map. Regalia: Purchase Deadline – April 29 There is NEW Master’s gown this year with a burnt orange flat braiding down the front panel. All MS Students must wear Master’s Regalia (students may not wear the undergraduate robe). All regalia can be purchased from the CO-OP. For more information about regalia or to purchase online, please visit the co-op website. Student Arrival Time 10:30 a.m. Disability Services If a family member requires special accommodation, please let Allison Wilden know no later than April 29. Live Stream For family members and guests who cannot attend graduation, we will live stream the ceremony. Link will be posted here and sent to students in advance of graduation. Academic Dress/Regalia Academic Dress/Regalia Traditional academic regalia is required for all degree candidates. Watch here on how to wear the regalia. Students should wear business attire underneath their gowns. Candidates wearing anything other than the approved academic regalia will be asked to leave. A regalia package is available for purchase from the University Co-op (graduation department in the basement), and cannot be rented through the Co-op. Select “Business” when ordering tassel / stole or hood. If you borrow regalia, make sure that you have the correct color. MPA students earning both their BBA and MPA degrees concurrently only need to buy the masters regalia, which they can wear to the BBA ceremony. The tassel is worn on the right before the degree is conferred. Do not bring any personal items such as purses, backpacks, or coats. Be mindful of the swift pace at which names are read; please be respectful of the audience as you walk across the stage once your name is read. Be careful in choosing shoes to wear, as the ramps to and from the stage can be slick and are rather steep. It is recommended that high heels not be worn. No flip flops. Graduation In-Absentia (BBA Only) Graduation In-Absentia Graduation in-absentia refers to graduation during a semester when a student is not enrolled at The University of Texas at Austin. McCombs policy requires that students must have COMPLETED ALL degree requirements by the deadline date in order to register in-absentia. Apply to graduate in-absentia via email to Anissa Martinez. It is your responsibility to send an email which includes your UTEID, business major (& minor), current address, current phone number, email address (optional), and a statement requesting to apply to graduate in-absentia for the semester before the deadline date. After receiving your email, we will review your graduation status and contact you with further instructions and/or the necessary forms to apply. For additional questions email BBAAcademicAdvisor@mccombs.utexas.edu or call (512) 471-0690. Criteria for Eligibility Must have been in a business major and enrolled in the McCombs School of Business at the time he or she left The University of Texas at Austin. Cannot already have a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from The University of Texas at Austin. Must have completed ALL requirements for graduation by the in absentia deadline. May not be enrolled at The University of Texas at Austin in residence the semester planned for graduation. Graduation In-Absentia Checklist Students who meet the above criteria should: Know the deadline to apply to graduate for the semester in which you plan to graduate. This information is listed every semester in the Academic Calendar. The application period begins after the 12th class day and ends the last class day. Clear any financial bars on your record. Registration in absentia cannot occur until all have been cleared. Call Student Accounts Receivable at (512) 471-7777 to find out information about your financial bars. You may clear financial bars by accessing UT Direct. Transfer work is your responsibility to submit any transcripts from other institutions to the Office of Admissions. There are two ways to do this: 1. We suggest that you have the other institution send a transcript directly to UT Austin's Office of Admissions. The transcript can be sent either electronically or through postal mail. 2. Hand deliver the other institution's transcript to the Office of Admissions with a note stating that you are a graduating senior. You must complete either of these at least one month prior to the deadline to apply to graduate AND follow up to make sure that your transcript has been received. Transfer work must be on your official UT record by the deadline date. UT online Extension work is your responsibility to take the final exam at least two weeks prior to the deadline to apply to graduate. This is necessary to ensure that a final grade is posted by the deadline. Placement work is your responsibility to take the exam and petition for credit before the deadline to petition for that semester. Contact Student Testing Services at (512) 232-2662 for information about test dates and petition deadlines. You must have placement credit on your UT official record by the deadline to apply to graduate. Post Ceremony Post Ceremony Diplomas Once all requirements are met by the prescribed deadlines, you will receive graduation information from the Registrar’s Office. It is important to update your local and permanent addresses on the university system. he diploma will be mailed to your permanent address on file with the university. Diplomas will arrive approximately six weeks after the ceremony. For more information regarding diplomas, you can contact diplomas@austin.utexas.edu or (512) 475-7619. Tuition Rebate & B-On-Time Loan Forgiveness Tuition Rebate Program A graduating senior who is a Texas resident may be eligible for a $1,000 tuition rebate upon graduation if they meet eligibility requirements set by the State of Texas. The tuition rebate is for undergraduates only. Given the unique nature of the IMPA program and the strict requirements of the tuition rebate program, it is unlikely that IMPA students will qualify for a tuition rebate. Application Directions To apply, print and scan the completed required Student Tuition Rebate Application into your computer as a PDF and email it to TuitionRebate@mccombs.utexas.edu. Save your email because it will serve as your receipt. Do not fax or drop off the paper application to us. We will only accept scanned applications attached to your email. Applications are due by 5 p.m. the day before the official date of graduation. For Winter 2021 graduates, the deadline is Friday, May 21, 2021 at 5 p.m. B-On-Time Loan Forgiveness Program The Texas B-On-Time Loan program provides low or no-interest loans to eligible Texas students. The loans can be forgiven upon graduation if certain conditions are met. Application Directions To apply, print and scan the completed required B-on-Time Loan Forgiveness Eligibility Confirmation Form. Applications are due before graduation. Once you graduate, we will begin processing your form, which may take several weeks General Property Deposit Form When you enrolled at UT, you were required to make a $10 General Deposit. The university holds this deposit for 60 days past your graduation. After 60 days you may request a refund from Student Accounts Receivable. Directions are on the linked document. Commencement 2022 Join us as we celebrate the 139th class of world-changers. The university-wide commencement ceremony takes place at Darrell K. Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium on Saturday, May 21, at 7:30 p.m. Morre University Commencement Info HOW TO WEAR YOUR CAP AND GOWN Resources Graduation Help The Graduation Help Desk consolidates all the tools available to help students stay on track to graduate and offers students assistance enrolling in classes required to fulfill their degree requirements. Graduation Help Desk staff work with students, advisors, and faculty to resolve roadblocks to timely graduation. Assistance Resources Join HookedIn Get plugged into a network of Longhorns working in every industry. Give back: Introduce, hire, and mentor new graduates of The University of Texas at Austin. Grow: Leverage the power of Longhorn Nation and take the next big step in your career. Join Now FAQs Can I indicate that a different name from what appears on my student records should be announced? Yes, you may confirm the name that will be announced the day of the event. Do I have to RSVP? Yes, all graduates will need to RSVP. This guarantees that graduates will be included in registration sign up and keepsake program. The deadline is November 5. Graduates cannot participate without an RSVP. Do guests need tickets to attend or do guests have to RSVP for the ceremony? No. Guests do not need tickets or have to RSVP. There will not be a guest limit. Do I need to wear a cap and gown? If so, where can I buy them? A cap and gown, commonly referred to as "academic regalia," are traditionally worn during Commencement and may be purchased through the University Co-op. The Co-op also offers announcements, invitations, yard signs and other graduation items. You are welcome (and encouraged) to wear a cap and gown. Please note that in order to receive your regalia prior to the Commencement Weekend, orders must be placed by November 12. How do I wear my cap and gown? Watch this video. Please leave your hood in the bag until the day of graduation. Once you arrive on campus, you'll be able to take the hood out of its bag and put it on as is. You won't need to adjust your hood in any way. What is the inclement weather policy? As always, inclement weather could be an issue. The Graduate Recognition Moment activities will continue if it is safe to do so, rain or shine. We will have tents in outdoor spaces where lines may form while graduates wait to enter the building. Please bring an umbrella and other suitable rain gear, if desired. What COVId-19 safety protocols will be in place? Social distancing will be encouraged throughout the event. Masks are optional inside university buildings and outdoors. For individuals who are not fully vaccinated or have weakened immune systems, masking and social distancing are optional but recommended. Graduates who are not already vaccinated are strongly encouraged to take advantage of UT’s Proactive Community Testing Program in the days leading up to commencement. Guests who are not already vaccinated are strongly encouraged to take advantage of free testing through their primary care physician or a community clinic before arriving on campus. A member of my party has mobility or other accommodation requests. Where can I find more information? Please visit the Accessibility Information for Guests page for more information and appropriate contacts. A map detailing Accessibility Services can be found here. What prohibited items do guests need to be aware of? Please visit the Security page for restrictions on prohibited items and bag sizes. Photography A professional photographer will be present. Photo can be ordered from Flash Photography. Candidates will have the option of purchasing photographs. Parking View available UT parking lots and garages. You may also print a map of campus Visitor Parking areas. Recommended Campus Parking Brazos Garage Rowling Garage Paid Parking Options Dobie/2005 Whitis Garage Bullock Museum Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin