Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geography and Urban Studies MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geography and Urban Studies MA Apply Request More Info Geography and Urban Studies MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Geography and Urban Studies MA Develop research techniques and analytical skills to understand and address complex social issues specific to urban areas with the Master of Arts in Geography and Urban Studies in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Rapid urbanization and environmental problems are defining the 21st century. Students analyze critical problems in communities around the world through a theoretically informed and data-driven, integrative curriculum with multiple interdisciplinary perspectives. In the 36-credit Geography and Urban Studies MA, you will research areas such as environmental issues, gender and race, geographic methods, including geographic information science, remote sensing, and qualitative research, international development, social and spatial theory, and urban development. All courses take place at Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia, allowing you to study at a university that is deeply ingrained in neighboring urban communities. Temple’s Geography and Urban Studies Department is an intimate program in which professors lead small classes and guide students throughout their time in the program. The interdisciplinary expertise of the faculty includes black geographies, critical feminist geography, food systems, geographic information science, health geography, political ecology, sustainability science, urban studies and urban analytics. Learn more about Geography and Urban Studies MA faculty. Graduates are prepared to pursue doctoral studies, careers in academia, or positions in community organizing and social change efforts, environmental sustainability, urban and economic development, and social justice. Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems Earn a Graduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) with no additional coursework, expanding your career opportunities in the job market. Develop industry-relevant GIS skills through advanced training in geospatial analysis and mapping technology. Harness this powerful analytical tool to deliver the data-driven decision-making that is in demand across most industries and organizations. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to complete the Geography and Urban Studies MA program on a full- or part-time basis with classes offered after 4:30 p.m. The 36-credit curriculum includes core coursework, two methodology courses, four electives and a Master’s Research Paper course, for which students meet as a class to facilitate the production of a high-quality paper on a topic connected to their work in a specific class. Core courses include the following. Critical Issues in Globalization, Sustainability and Social Justice Geographic Inquiry History and Theory of Urban Studies Public Policy for Urban Regions Learn more about Geography and Urban Studies MA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Geography and Urban Studies PhD Geographic Information Systems PSM City and Regional Planning MS* *Tyler School of Art and Architecture Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Geography and Urban Studies MA, contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the student services coordinator in the College of Liberal Arts. Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geography and Urban Studies Department. Melissa Gilbert is the chair. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Hamil Pearsall is the graduate chair. Phone: 215-204-3074 Email: hamil.pearsall@temple.edu Lee Hachadoorian is the director. Phone: 215-204-3331 Email: lee.hachadoorian@temple.edu Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration. Phone: 215.204.7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Geography and Urban Studies MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The Association of American Geographers is a nonprofit scientific and educational society that seeks to advance the understanding, study and importance of geography and related fields. It is open to graduate and doctoral students. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GUS-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geography and Urban Studies MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info