Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Graduate Students Admissions Core Requirements in Communication Specialty Areas PhD Program MA Program OverviewFilm & Video ProductionCommunication Studies Graduate Certificate in Health Communication Course Offerings Assistantships & Awards Facilities & Equipment Living in Memphis Policies & Documents FAQS Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Graduate Department of Communication Admissions Graduate Admissions Department of Communication and Film does not require GRE. For additional Univerisity-wide admission requirements for international students, see https://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/international/add_requirements.php Applicants whose highest degree is from a foreign university must have their credentials evaluated. The committee will accept evaluations done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services website (http://www.naces.org). A course-by course report is required. Admissions Process Apply HERE (Application portal for Fall 2022 admission will be open August-September 2021) Fall 2022 Admissions Deadlines: January 18, 2022 - MA and PhD priority deadline for consideration for a graduate assistantship. May 1, 2022 - Final PhD application deadline. June 1, 2022 - Final MA application deadline. For answers to frequently asked questions about applying to our program, CLICK HERE. All admissions questions should be directed to the Director of Graduate Studies, Marina Levina. MA Program Application CV/Resume: Please upload your resume or curriculum vitae. Include all relevant teaching, research, and work experience. Writing Sample: Please upload an example of your academic writing, such as a final paper for one of your classes Statement / Letter of Purpose: Please upload an essay of up to 1200 words, explaining your purpose in pursuing a master's degree, specific communication areas that you would like to explore, and why you would like to study in our department. Official/Unofficial Transcript: In order to expedite the decision process, please include a copy of your unofficial transcript. Please note that in order to be admitted to the University of Memphis, you must provide the official transcript. There will be a space in the application portal for you to provide both. Recommendations: We require two letters of recommendation from faculty members at your undergraduate institution who can attest to your potential as a graduate student. We do not accept letters from current or former non-academic employers. Once you fill out your application, an email request will automatically be sent to the recommender on your behalf. Please advise your recommender to look for this email in their inbox, as well as their spam or junk-mail folder, as emails do occasionally get filtered out. Please be mindful that the priority deadline for the consideration for graduate assistantship is January 18th and the letters of recommendation will need to be posted around that time as well. Applying well before January 18th deadline will ensure that your recommendation letters get to the department in time. Other: Please upload any video related to the Film and Video Production Program. If your video is larger than 15 MB, provide a URL to your sample film or video in the Questions sections. PhD Program Application CV/Resume: Please upload your curriculum vitae. Include all relevant teaching, research, and work experience. Writing Sample: Please submit two academic papers that demonstrate your writing skills. Examples of acceptable submissions include research paper from your MA program, professional research or position papers, or chapters from your MA thesis. Statement / Letter of Purpose: Please upload an essay of up to 1500 words, explaining your purpose in pursuing a PhD, specific communication areas that you would like to explore, and why you would like to study in our department. If your MA is not in Communication, please explain how your MA prepared you for getting a PhD in Communication. Official/Unofficial Transcript: In order to expedite the decision process, please include a copy of your unofficial transcript. Please note that in order to be admitted to the University of Memphis, you must provide the official transcript. There will be a space in the application portal for you to provide both. Recommendations: We require three letters of recommendation from faculty members who can attest to your potential as a PhD student. We do not accept letters from current or former non-academic employers. Once you have saved an electronic recommendation, an email request will automatically be sent to the recommender on your behalf. Please advise your recommender to look for this email in their inbox, as well as their spam or junk-mail folder, as emails do occasionally get filtered out. Please be mindful that the priority deadline for the consideration for graduate assistantship is January 18th and the letters of recommendation will need to be posted around that time as well. Applying well before January 18th deadline will ensure that your recommendation letters get to the department in time. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.