Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Resources University College Scholarships and Awards College of Professional & Liberal Studies Scholarships and Awards Application for College or Professional & Liberal Studies Scholarships can be completed through Tiger Scholarship Manager. Frances Ina Stewart Davies Endowed Scholarship Awarded to an undergraduate student in Merchandising OR Child Development & Family Studies exhibiting outstanding academic achievements. (Open to students majoring in Merchandising concentrations and Child Development & Family Studies concentrations.) Edward A. Hamilton Scholarship Awarded to firefighters and dependents of firefighters who are either incoming students or currently enrolled at the University of Memphis and have evidence of financial need. Yancey Scholarship Awarded to adult students (age 25 and older) returning to the University of Memphis who are enrolled and have an approved plan of study for an undergraduate degree in the College of Professional & Liberal Studies. Joyce Holeman-Kidd Scholarship Awarded to an undergraduate student enrolled in College of Professional & Liberal Studies who is a non-traditional and first-generation college student. FedEx Purple Runway Aviation Scholarship Awarded to an undergraduate student in the College of Professional & Liberal Studies Commercial Aviation program. This is a non-renewable, $10,000 scholarship per student. Please note: the scholarship is open to students already holding a FAA Private Pilot's license, or greater. The scholarship committee will select the best-qualified candidates from a highly competitive pool of applicants. Please carefully read the requirements identified in the Tiger Scholarship Manager. Outstanding Student in Merchandising Award Presented to an outstanding undergraduate student with potential for leadership in the discipline. Outstanding Student in Child Development & Family Studies Award Presented to an outstanding undergraduate student with potential for leadership in the discipline. Outstanding Student in Legal Studies Award Presented to the student demonstrating academic achievement, leadership, and dedication to the discipline. Outstanding Online Student Award Presented to students demonstrating unusual commitment and scholarly endeavor while taking courses online. Alma Bucovaz Urban Service Award Presented to the student demonstrating excellence in an academic program addressing urban problems and seeking to ameliorate urban needs. Faculty Council Award Awarded to the student who graduated with the overall highest grade point average in the last academic year. Academic Achievement Award Presented to students demonstrating academic excellence and scholarly potential in their particular baccalaureate program. Dean's Award for Special Achievement Awarded to the student demonstrating achievement, leadership, and determination to complete the baccalaureate program. Outstanding Graduate Student Award Awarded to the outstanding graduate student demonstrating unusual commitment and scholarly endeavor in the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies program, the Master of Professional Studies program, or the Doctor of Liberal Studies program. Dr. Dan Lattimore Innovation Award Awarded to a College of Professional & Liberal Studies graduate student who reflects innovative spirit, dedication, and leadership within the college and their chosen field. College of Professional & Liberal Studies Alumni Board Book Scholarship Presented by College of Professional & Liberal Studies Alumni Chapter. Alma Bucovaz Urban Service Award Awarded to a member of the College for commitment to the solving of urban problems through research and outreach. Distinguished Faculty Award Presented to a College of Professional & Liberal Studies faculty member for demonstrating outstanding service and dedication to College of Professional & Liberal Studies students. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.