Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Perelman Family Foundation makes lead gift for new residential college by the Office of Communications Dec. 5, 2018, 10 a.m. Ronald O. Perelman and Debra G. Perelman announced that the Perelman Family Foundation is making the lead gift to establish a new residential college at Princeton University. The construction of Perelman College will advance one of Princeton’s highest strategic priorities — the expansion of the undergraduate population by around 10 percent. Debra G. Perelman, a member of Princeton's Class of 1996, and her father, Ronald O. Perelman, have announced that the Perelman Family Foundation is making the lead gift to establish a new residential college at the University. Photo courtesy of the Perelman Family Foundation “The establishment of Perelman College will enable Princeton to admit more talented students from every sector of society, increasing our capacity to fulfill our mission and make a positive difference in the world," said Princeton President Christopher L. Eisgruber. "I am deeply grateful to the Perelmans for their extraordinary vision and generosity." Perelman College will become Princeton’s seventh residential college. The University’s residential colleges are critical to Princeton’s mission and distinctive educational model. Serving as the nexus of academic and non-academic life on campus, the colleges play an important role in community-building and creating an environment that enables all students to flourish. The University’s strategic framework, adopted by the board in 2016, called for the expansion of the undergraduate student body by 125 students per class. This growth will allow Princeton to admit more talented students who will realize the benefits of a Princeton education, enhance the diversity and vitality of the campus community, and contribute to society after their graduations. “We are very excited that the establishment of Perelman College will support the University’s renewed mission to create a more diverse and inclusive campus,” Ronald O. Perelman said. “People of all backgrounds and communities deserve access to the extraordinary education and training offered by Princeton and all the wonderful opportunities afforded its graduates. I want to thank President Eisgruber for his vision and leadership and look forward to seeing Perelman College help fulfill the dreams of the next generation of Princeton students.” “We are thrilled to be able to make this gift and to be so closely aligned with the mission of the University,” said Debra G. Perelman, a member of Princeton’s Class of 1996. “The creation of Perelman College will help fulfill Princeton’s mission to create a more culturally and economically diverse community. Princeton not only offers an unparalleled education but it also teaches its students how to be contributors to society and the world and to truly have an impact. Perelman College will ensure a more diverse array of young people have access to the Princeton experience.” Ronald Perelman poses with his father, Raymond G. Perelman, a philanthropist whose donations have supported higher education, arts and culture, and improved access to health care. Photo courtesy of the Perelman Family Foundation Ronald O. Perelman is chairman and chief executive officer of MacAndrews & Forbes Inc., a company that owns and operates a diverse array of public and private businesses. Over the past four decades, Mr. Perelman has become known as an accomplished industrialist and generous philanthropist. He is recognized as an innovative leader and a major supporter of many of the nation’s most prominent cultural, educational and medical institutions. Mr. Perelman previously made a gift to Princeton University to create the Ronald O. Perelman Institute for Judaic Studies. Debra Perelman was recently named Revlon’s first female chief executive officer. She was previously its chief operating officer and had been an executive vice president at MacAndrews & Forbes. Ronald’s father and Debra’s grandfather, Raymond G. Perelman, has been their philanthropic role model, always espousing the importance of “giving back.” The senior Mr. Perelman is among the most generous of philanthropists, giving hundreds of millions of dollars to support higher education, arts and culture, and to improve access to health care. Deborah Berke Partners, an architecture firm known for designing inventive and enduring buildings and spaces that enable community engagement and advance institutional mission, has been selected for the new residential college project. The University has identified a site for new residential college facilities south of Poe Field and east of Elm Drive. Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice