Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information CUIMC Faculty Named AAAS Fellows January 26, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Cancer researcher Michael M. Shen and exposome pioneer Gary W. Miller were named fellows of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the world's largest multidisciplinary scientific society, for their contributions to science. AAAS Fellows are selected for their extraordinary achievements in research, teaching, technology, administration, or communicating science to the public. Michael M. Shen, PhD Michael M. Shen Shen is the Arthur J. Antenucci Professor of Medical Sciences and professor of genetics & development, urology, and systems biology at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Shen was elected for distinguished contributions to developmental and cancer biology, particularly for applying the principles of developmental genetics to the study of genitourinary malignancies. His work in creating 3D organoids—cell systems that mimic the complex heterogeneity in a tumor—has been instrumental in advancing the study of cancer, tumor biology, and novel cancer treatments. Shen and collaborators have worked extensively with bladder cancer organoids developed from samples of patient tumors to study drug response and drug resistance in bladder cancer patients. Shen also is a member of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Gary W. Miller, PhD Gary W. Miller Miller is professor of environmental health sciences and vice dean for research strategy and innovation at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Miller was elected for distinguished contributions to the fields of pharmacology, toxicology, and neuroscience, particularly to the understanding of neurotransmitter storage, Parkinson’s disease, and the importance of environmental factors in disease development. Miller is a pioneer in the emerging exposome field, which strives to provide a systematic and comprehensive analysis of the non-genetic contributors to health and disease. Miller leads Columbia’s exposomics and metabolomics laboratory, which is part of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research. His research focuses on environmental drivers of neurodegeneration. Before joining Columbia in 2018, Miller founded and directed the HERCULES Exposome Research Center at Emory University, the first NIH center on the exposome. He authored the first book on the topic, “The Exposome: A Primer.” Miller also has an appointment in the Department of Molecular Pharmacology & Therapeutics in the Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Other Columbians elected this year to the AAAS: Gerard Parkin (Chemistry), Dustin Rubenstein (Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology), and Nicholas Christie-Blick (Earth & Environmental Sciences). Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top