Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs WoMen's Center Women's and Adult Re-entry Center Update The WoMen's and Adult Re-entry Center (WARC) has begun to transition its resources and services, in accordance with CSU Executive Order 1095, to other centers and service areas across the California State University, Fullerton campus. Listed below are resources traditionally offered through the WARC and still provided at CSUF, including women's/gender support services and programming, adult re-entry services, CalWORKs, violence prevention, and other campus resources. Students with questions about Women's Intersectional Programming can contact: dirc@fullerton.edu. Students with questions about Adult Re-entry services can contact: welcome@fullerton.edu. Students with questions about CalWORKs can contact: csufcalworks@fullerton.edu. Please note: This webpage will remain active through the end of the 2021-22 Academic Year. Following the removal of this webpage, resources found below can still be accessed through the appropriate campus website links. ADULT REENTRY & PARENTING STUDENTS Adult Reentry and Parenting Students is dedicated to the success of non traditional students. This team provides reentry and parenting support services, leadership opportunities and programs to enhance academic and personal development. More Information CONFIDENTIAL ADVOCATE The campus Confidential Advocate is provided through Student Wellness. This resource is available to provide support to students/faculty/staff that have been impacted by sexual assault, domestic violence, stalking, and gender based violence. More Information VIOLENCE PREVENTION Similar to the Confidential Advocate, Violence Prevention services are offered through Titan Well – a unit within Student Wellness. For current programs, please visit the Titan Well webpage. ADDITIONAL RESOURCES Listed below are multiple resources related to women's/gender support services and programming: Diversity Initiatives & Resource Centers Title IX and Gender Equity <p>Your browser does not support frames</p> This site is maintained by WoMen's Center. Last Published 4/7/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact womenscenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.