Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Athletic Training MSAT You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Athletic Training MSAT Apply Request More Info Athletic Training MSAT Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Athletic Training Prepare to become a certified athletic trainer with the entry-level Master of Science in Athletic Training in Temple’s College of Public Health. This program is designed for students who have an undergraduate degree in another field. Students in the program are prepared for clinical practice as professionals trained in injury or illness prevention and wellness protection, clinical evaluation and diagnosis, immediate and emergency care, treatment and rehabilitation, and organizational and professional health and well-being. In the MSAT program, you will learn to evaluate research literature in order to make evidence-based decisions in your future practice with patients. Coursework integrates cultural competency and professionalism in global healthcare delivery. The program includes a special emphasis on concussion and mild traumatic brain injury education. Students also learn to collaborate effectively with interprofessional healthcare teams, patients and athletic program administrators. Athletic trainers work with a broad range of people including professional athletes, individuals engaged in recreational sports and activities, and those whose employment requires physical movement. Our graduates are employed in a wide range of athletic training environments, including professional, college and high school sports; sports medicine and physical therapy clinics; and nontraditional settings in which employees are conducting physical activity and are at risk of movement-related injury. What sets apart our Athletic Training MSAT? Unparalleled clinical practice experience: Students in Temple’s athletic training program are offered clinical placements in NCAA Division I, small college and high school settings. New educational space: Our state-of-the-art clinical education lab contains ceiling-mounted live cameras that enhance clinical instruction, as well as expanded modalities that include electrical stimulation, a hot/cold tub and ultrasound. The lab simulates the kinds of athletic training rooms graduates will encounter in the field. Student diversity: The students in our athletic training program come from a wide range of personal and clinical backgrounds, races, and ethnicities, which enriches discussion and exposes you to diverse perspectives and experiences. A renowned program with expert faculty: Temple has been a leader in athletic training education for more than 30 years, and our faculty are nationally recognized experts in concussion, evidence-based practice, policy development in sport and shoulder injury. Program Format and AT Certification You can complete the master’s degree in two years of full-time study. The program balances classroom learning and extensive clinical experiences. All courses are conducted onsite at Temple’s Main Campus. See a full list of program courses. Graduates of the MSAT degree program are eligible to take the Board of Certification examination to become a certified athletic trainer. For more information on the certification process, visit the Board of Certification website. For more information about state regulatory processes, visit the NATA website. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Athletic Training offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. For fees specific to the Athletic Training MSAT, see the program handbook. [PDF] Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. MSAT students can seek program support from the program director. Jamie Mansell Director of Athletic Training Education Phone: 215-204-2153 Email: jmansell@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Athletic Training DAT Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Temple University is proud to be a founding member of the Association for Athletic Training Education. HP-ATHT-MSAT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Athletic Training MSAT Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info