Skip to content Books Column Forthcoming Series and Prizes Catalogs Search Subjects Column African American Agriculture American West Architecture Art Biography and Autobiography Biological Sciences Border Studies Botany Classics Cookbooks and Foodways Costume and Fashion Cowboys and Ranching Current Events and Politics Column Education Environment Fiction Film and Media Folklore Hispanic and Latino/a Holocaust Jewish History Law Literary Criticism Literary Essays Medicine Memoir Military and Conflict Museums and Historic Preservation column Music and Music History Native American Nature and Natural History Photography Poetry Recreation and Games Reference Sports and Sport History Texas Vietnam Women In The West Young Readers Journals Information Column Customer Service Author Resources and Submissions About the Press Rights and Permissions Contact Us Editorial Committee Engage Columns TTUP Blog Support the Press Events Literary Lubbock Close Menu SEARCH SEARCH X Home New Bestseller Join our Mailing List Please enable JavaScript in your browser to complete this form. Email * Message Submit © 2022 Texas Tech University Press. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Powered by Supadu Connect Column Contact Us 806-742-2982 [email protected] 1120 Main Street Lubbock, TX 79401 Home Column Books Series and Prizes Catalogs Search Journals Column Information Customer Service Author Resources/Submissions About the Press Editorial Committee Column Engage TTUP Blog Support the Press Events Literary Lubbock To give you the best possible experience, this site uses cookies. By continuing to use the site, you agree that we can save them to your device. Cookies are small text files which remember your preferences and some details of your visit. Our cookies do not collect personal information. Close GDPR Cookie Banner Accept Close GDPR Cookie Banner Close GDPR Cookie Settings Privacy Overview Strictly Necessary Cookies Powered by GDPR Cookie Compliance Privacy Overview This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful. Strictly Necessary Cookies Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings. Enable or Disable Cookies If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again. Enable All Save Settings