Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mathematics PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mathematics PhD Apply Request More Info Mathematics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Mathematics PhD Study mathematics as both an applied and pure discipline with the Mathematics PhD from Temple’s College of Science and Technology. In this doctoral program, you will gain the necessary skills to conduct your own original research and prepare for a career in administration, higher education or industry. The Mathematics PhD program’s dynamic curriculum provides you with the strong theoretical foundation needed to pursue research in the area of your choice. A range of departmental colloquia and seminars, several of which are specifically geared toward graduate students, give you a broad perspective on the mathematical research being conducted worldwide. In the classroom, you will hone your communication skills for research exposition and teaching. This intimate program affords you individualized attention, with a small faculty-to-student ratio. Small graduate classes are held in an informal atmosphere, enabling you to work closely with faculty and peers. The department’s strong research faculty will guide you in the areas of geometric group theory, global geometry, harmonic analysis, homological and quantum algebra, low-dimensional topology, mathematical physics, mathematical modeling, mathematical biology, mathematics of materials, numerical analysis, partial differential equations, probability, and representation theory. In the first two years of the program, you will take introductory courses and complete written comprehensive exams. At this point you will select a thesis advisor and begin your research, of which the results will become the basis for your dissertation. The program may be completed over the course of six years. Classes & Curriculum In this 48-credit-hour program, class options include Calculus of Variations, Combinatorial Mathematics, Modular Functions, Number Theory and Topics Computer Program. Learn more about the PhD in Mathematics courses. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Scientific Writing PSM Actuarial Science MS * Civil Engineering PhD ** Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science *Fox School of Business **College of Engineering Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors For general questions regarding the Mathematics PhD, contact grad.math@temple.edu. Yury Grabovsky, professor and graduate chairperson of the Mathematics Department, is the faculty program coordinator for the Mathematics PhD. Phone: 215-204-7840 Email: yury.grabovsky@temple.edu Irina Mitrea, professor and department chair of the Department of Mathematics, is the faculty program coordinator for the Mathematics PhD. Phone: 215-204-7841 Email: imitrea@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student Clubs and Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Mathematics degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Women in Mathematics—Temple University Chapter, which promotes equal opportunities for women in the field and encourages them to seek careers in mathematics. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, a professional society for students interested in industrial, computational or applied mathematics. Members have opportunities to attend seminars, explore career opportunities and meet with scientists in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-MATH-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mathematics PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info