Overview Transformational Space Top Business Programs Support the Project Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs Thank you! 100% donor funded. Watch the groundbreaking. Renderings courtesy of BNIM. Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs A grand staircase and large windows create a light-filled space Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs The facility will feature a mainstage where students can competitively pitch ideas. Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs A cafe, student support services, and event space activate the main level. Previous Next Breaking Ground on a New Era for Marquette Business and Innovation Leadership Programs Marquette University is moving forward on construction of our new state-of-the-art facility for business and innovation leadership programs at 16th Street and Wisconsin Avenue on the former site of McCormick Hall. The project marks a historic moment as the university’s largest fully donor-funded construction project. The $60 million, 100,000 square-foot building will feature collaborative classroom, lab and study spaces as well as an event space, café, faculty offices and areas for programmatic centers of excellence. Its first floor is designed to provide wrap-around student support through centralized advising, a Student Success Center and a Business Career Center. Live image updates of building progress. Image updates every 5 minutes between 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily. With technology driving fast-paced, global decision-making, now is our moment to build on our strong foundation of nationally ranked business programs. And to champion ethical entrepreneurial thinking, talent development and economic innovation. Construction will be completed by December 2022. Continue Support for Business and Innovation Programming Watch the full recording of the groundbreaking ceremony | Groundbreaking photos Board of Trustees approves spring groundbreaking for new home for Marquette Business and innovation leadership programs Media coverage: Business Journal | BizTimes | Business Journal on the effects of the pandemic <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> A Transformational Space Location Located on the site of the former McCormick Hall at 16th Street and Wisconsin, our new facility will anchor the west gateway to the heart of campus. Where insights meet ethics Marquette Business shapes great business leaders with an ethical compass and the ability to combine values, ambition and knowledge. Our new home will embrace Marquette’s Catholic, Jesuit foundation while providing the technology infrastructure for students to be change agents for the greater good. Seeing this facility come to life is especially meaningful because of the remarkable passion of our Marquette community and the legacy of the late Keyes Dean Joe Daniels, which we carry into the future. —Interim Keyes Dean Tim Hanley President Lovell's Tribute to Joe Daniels from Marquette University Advancement on Vimeo. A forum for the future Business isn’t done in a silo. Our new facility will emphasize innovative, collaborative spaces where students will be immersed in experiential learning and creative solutions. Future accountants will team with aspiring marketers, and next-generation bankers will map balance sheets with up-and-coming developers. Innovation leadership programs Marquette Business is rising to meet the demand for innovation leaders. Beyond technology and products, we have designed our strategy, curriculum and philosophy around people. Dedicated innovation space inside the new facility will position us to connect disciplines across colleges, to test prototype solutions, and to convene industry partners on site, helping us prepare innovative graduates ready to leave their manuals at the door. It will house Marquette’s expanded Excellence in Leadership (E-Lead) program, and serve as an integral part of our innovation ecosystem across campus. Our spaces and technology also will empower companies to send emerging talent to Marquette for intensive development and skill-set training. Special event space The new Marquette Business facility will include a special event space to: Host workshops, community events, conferences and large-scale discussions around important societal issues and industry challenges. Welcome top executives and recruiters to meet the next generation of business leaders, and serve as the place where Marquette talks business. Connect local and extended business communities with Marquette faculty, staff, future graduates and peers. Infusing innovation The new facility will also house innovation leadership programs like Marquette’s Excellence in Leadership (E-LEAD) and Bridge to Business. Its proximity to the Opus College of Engineering will help foster creative collisions of thought and perspective that fuel an innovative mindset. Top Business Programs Applied Investment Management (AIM) Our AIM program maintains a 100 percent career placement record, with alumni working in prestigious Wall Street firms and top global financial hubs. With enhanced technology and more space in the new facility, students will be able to connect instantly with finance professionals across the globe. Center for Supply Chain Management Ranked 16th in the U.S. by Gartner research (the gold standard among supply chain professionals), our Center for Supply Chain has deep relationships with some of the world’s leading firms. Our new facility will enhance how we study, understand and invest in every part of the journey, from raw materials to end customer. Center for Real Estate The first to form among the 27 Catholic, Jesuit U.S. universities, Marquette’s Center for Real Estate has a 100 percent career placement record, and faculty hope to launch a student-run real estate equity fund within the new facility. Commercial banking One of only two undergraduate commercial banking programs in the U.S., this new program offers students hands-on underwriting experiences, working with a $500,000 loan from a local banking partner. Professional sales Marquette’s distinctive program provides real-world consultative experiences in what many executives call the most important function in any business. Accounting Marquette’s distinguished accounting curriculum is one of only three programs in Wisconsin accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. Marquette accountants are known for ethical behavior and leadership, analytical reasoning, computer competency and technical knowledge that they bring to the region. Finance Annually recognized by U.S. News and World Report among the nation’s top undergraduate business specialty programs, our Finance program develops graduates who are known for corporate social responsibility. Home to the Center for Real Estate and Applied Investment Management program, graduates are recruited by leading financial services, banking, investment and real estate firms. Economics Award-winning scholars teach economics at Marquette, having worked for or consulted with organizations such as the United Nations, Wisconsin Realtors Association and the Council of Economic Advisers. Undergraduate students specialize in business, financial, international or marketing research economics. International Business Our undergraduate international business major prepares future business leaders for the rapidly changing global economy, with a focus on developing skills to navigate language and cultural issues in the business environment. Management Marquette management students focus on one of four disciplines — entrepreneurship, human resources, information systems, or operations and supply chain management. Home to the Center for Supply Chain Management and our nationally ranked part-time MBA program, graduates are highly sought-after by leading employers. Marketing One of the most popular undergraduate majors at Marquette University and in the College of Business Administration, our marketing program combines an innovative curriculum rooted in marketing theory with real-world experiences. Students gain a competitive advantage by embracing applied learning, conducting research projects, gaining internships and studying abroad. Graduate & Executive Education Our Graduate School of Management offers 10 distinct and highly-rated graduate business programs. We also offer tailor-made Executive Education programs to a variety of industries and clients. Support the project As our new business facility begins to rise, opportunities continue to support the dynamic spaces, programming and resources that will bring the facility to life and become the heartbeat of this student and community hub. Contact Teresa Janusz for more information, and please know we are grateful to you for helping our students and faculty Be The Difference in the business world. Continue Support for Business and Innovation Programming Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2021 Marquette University