Skip To Main Content Iowa State Recreation Services Search the website Open Search Box View our Facebook View our Twitter View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Open Mobile Menu View our Facebook View our Twitter View our Instagram View our Youtube Channel Search the website Open Search Box Sport Clubs 811529 The Sport Clubs program at Iowa State University has a long and proud tradition. Our student-led clubs offer a way for Iowa State students to engage in activities that they enjoy while competing locally, regionally and nationally. Sport clubs are open to all Iowa State students and a great way to try something new! What Is A Sport Club? Sport clubs are groups of students and faculty/staff that have interests in a specific sport. Sport Clubs provide competition at specialized levels, participation in tournaments and opportunities to practice a sport with people who have the same interests. What Can A Sport Club Do For Me? Iowa State University’s Sport Club Program is designed to serve individual interests in the different sport club activities and is student-oriented in every respect. The Sport Club Program is created for the students and by the students, under the supervision of the sport club coordinator and the Sport Club Council. How Do Sport Clubs Develop? At Iowa State University, a sport club usually develops when several students express a desire to participate in a particular sport activity. Each club has officers, a constitution, keep records, charges dues, may receive Government Student Body funds, has regular meetings and usually has practice sessions or special events. Each club elects one person to be a representative to the Sport Club Council. The council deals primarily with budget decisions, promotion and policy and scheduling problems. Where Can I Get More Information? Call 294-4980, or come to 1180 State Gym for more information on clubs. Names and phone numbers of the club presidents and faculty advisors are also available here in our Sport Clubs directory. Athletic Training Athletic Training Learn more about athletic training options. Sport Clubs Resources Resources Find out all the needed information for participating in Sport Clubs. Featured Videos Close Video Iowa State University 1180 State Gym 2642 Union Dr. Ames, IA 50011-2029 E. recservices@iastate.edu P. 515.294.4980 Copyright © 1995-2022, Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non‑discrimination Policy