Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Accessible Technology Initiative (ATI) Main Navigation Report an ATI issue Instructional Materials Procurement Web Checkpoints & Scans ATI Scanning Tools Reporting Accessibility Issues Are you a student or using course materials? The office of disablitiy support services is setup to help evaluate and provide services to students who need help with their course materials. They are the fastest way to get the help. Students need to be registered and if you haven't done that yet they can help you work through the process. Disability Support Services ATI is all about ensuring that users have the ability to use our resources. We work across campus to provide the best service we can. If you are having an issue with using assistive technology on a website please let us know. We will work with the department to resolve the issue. We make it our policy to make web resources accessible to all regardless of disability. What is an ATI issue? images that include text in them or where the same information is not in plain text videos without closed captions or text transcript PDF's that have no tab order, primary language, or alt text on images color or text and the background color are too similar links on a page with unclear text as to where you're going to be taken (i.e. "click here"), the same text leading to different URLs, or URLs that use different text to direct users. links that open different windows or file formats without clearly saying so in link by using an icon with proper alt text. What is NOT an ATI Issue broken link (404) or security/forbidden access errors (503/500) images not displaying content on pages is not updated or correct spelling mistakes content is confusing or poorly organized you tried to complete a task and the directions did not work as expected or explained you are having trouble connecting a device to Campus WI-FI or other Campus resources If you feel like you have found an ATI issue please let us know so we can work with the website owners to fix the problems. Report ATI Issue This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.