Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin TEXAS Undergraduate Studies About Mission History Governance & Annual Reports Diversity & Inclusion Staff Directory Contact Us Students Current Students Core & Flag Requirements Scholarships & Awards Advising & Registration Student Council Faculty Core Curriculum Courses Signature Courses Assessment Supplemental Instruction Staff UGS Directory Organizational Chart Senior Staff Business & HR Procedures Design/Web Resources Administrative Tools Assessment Resources Parents & Friends What is UGS? Meet UGS Students Student Scholarships Support UGS Sanger Learning Center Make a Gift Search the Site Search Menu × Sanger Learning Center Academic Support Free Classes & Workshops Study Strategies Time & Goals Critical Reading Preview, Read, Recall Writing Tests Instructor Resources Graduate Student Resources Meet Student Leaders Mission Meet Our Staff Jobs Contact Us Make an Appointment Sign up for one-on-one tutoring Request a workshop Request a Peer Academic Coach Talk to a Learning Specialist Work on a speech Find Us Beauford H. Jester Center (JES) Room A332 201 E. 21st Street Austin, TX – 78705 512-471-3614 Visit the Sanger Learning Center on Facebook Follow the Sanger Learning Center on Twitter Follow the Sanger Learning Center on Instagram Home » slc » study » Time & Goals Time & Goals Not enough time to get everything done? You might not be prioritizing tasks effectively. Think carefully about what you want to achieve and determine a clear course of action. Use a semester deadline calendar and a weekly planner to help you manage your schedule. Spring 2022 Deadline Calendar Weekly Planner Plan Take time at the beginning of each week to assess your commitments and goals. Check daily to stay on track and add new tasks as they arise. Figure out how long you’re able to concentrate, break up scheduled time into smaller chunks, and don’t forget to give yourself breaks. Use short periods of time—15 to 30 minutes—for preview and review. Be honest with yourself about your habits and internal clock and plan accordingly. For example, if you’re a late sleeper, don’t schedule study time at 7 a.m. Set SMART Goals Specific State exactly what you want to achieve. Break larger tasks into smaller items. Measurable Establish clear definitions to help you recognize whether you’re reaching your goal. Action-Oriented Outline exactly what steps you will take to accomplish your goal. Realistic Set goals you can accomplish. Be sure to consider obstacles you may need to overcome. Time-Bound Decide exactly when you’ll start and finish your goal. Stay Motivated Identify your goal. Is it to learn more about the subject? To get a good grade? Both? What you want is also influenced by your expectations for success. If you believe that you’re not very good at math, for example, you may focus on just getting through the class rather than excelling in it. Think about why you want to achieve your goal. What is motivating you? Identifying this now allows you to remind yourself later what you are working to achieve. Make specific plans now for maintaining your motivation. These plans are sometimes referred to as reinforcers—rewards that you can use to propel yourself forward toward the goal. Departments All Departments 360 Connections Archer Fellowship Program at UT Austin Awards & Honors Bridging Disciplines Programs Center for the Skills & Experience Flags Core Curriculum Discovery Scholars Program First-Year Experience First-Year Interest Groups Reading Round-Up Research Week Sanger Learning Center Signature Courses Support Undergraduate Studies Texas Success Initiative The Helen and Jeff Herbert Family University Lecture Series The LaunchPad Transfer-Year Experience Program Undergraduate Research Vick Center for Strategic Advising © 2022 School of Undergraduate Studies The University of Texas Austin | Web Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility Policy