Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Apply Admissions FAQ If you can't find the information you're looking for and still have questions, please don't hesitate to contact us. We're here to help. Application Prerequisites TOEFL Exam Application I am in the final year of my undergraduate program and will graduate in the spring. Can I still apply? We receive many successful applications from current undergraduate students for our professional degree programs–MArch I/AP, MLA I/AP and MUP. On the other hand, MDE requires two years of professional experience, not counting internships during your undergraduate degree, and many applicants to our post-professional degrees have work experience. All programs require a previous degree, and some require a previous professional degree, depending on the program. Be sure to read the departmental pages for each program for more information. I don’t have a background in design—can I apply? Yes! Our first professional degrees (MArch I, MLA I, MUP) do not require a previous design background, although a four-year bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree or equivalent is required to apply. For architecture and landscape architecture you will need to submit a portfolio as part of the admissions process (a portfolio is not required for MUP). Are test scores and recommendation letters due by the application deadline? All materials, including test scores and recommendation letters, are due by the application deadline. Scores or recommendation letters received after the deadline will be added to your application, though we cannot guarantee that the admissions committee will see late materials during their review of your application. When is the latest date that you recommend taking the GRE or TOEFL? Test scores take up to 14 days to reach the GSD, so we encourage you to take the test no later than the first week of December, earlier if possible. Some applicants take the tests well in advance in order to give themselves time to retake the test if needed. Do you accept transfer students? You are welcome to apply to the GSD if you are currently enrolled in a graduate program at another school, but the GSD does not accept transfer credit from other institutions. You will need to apply during our regular application process. If admitted, once you enroll it may be possible for you to waive a required course if you have completed the equivalent course at another institution. This would not shorten the length of your program, but it may allow you to take an elective instead of the required course. How many times can I apply to the GSD? You may apply a maximum of three times to the same GSD degree program. If you are denied admission for the third time, further applications to the same program will not be considered. Can I apply to more than one program? Yes, you can apply to a maximum of three programs during one application cycle. We strongly encourage you to think carefully about your interests prior to applying to more than two programs! Applicants applying to more than one program must submit a separate application and supporting materials for each program. Applicants applying to more than one program who are interested in pursuing a concurrent degree at the GSD will go through the same process, submitting separate applications for each program, and should indicate within the application their interest in a concurrent degree. Each application is reviewed separately by the respective departmental committees. Do you offer joint degrees with other Harvard schools? Master in Urban Planning (MUP) students are eligible to pursue joint degrees with Harvard Law School, Harvard Chan School of Public Health, and Harvard Kennedy School. You must apply separately to both Schools in which you are interested. All GSD students are eligible to cross-register in courses across Harvard and at MIT. Are interviews part of the application process? Interviews are not normally part of the application process, though on occasion some applicants to the Master in Design Engineering degree program may be asked to participate in an interview. You will be contacted if an interview is requested. Can I submit a website for my portfolio? Website portfolios are not accepted. Your portfolio must be uploaded as a single PDF file, no larger than 40MB, with a maximum page count of 30. Cover pages and table of contents do not count toward total pages. Please see the application instructions for more details. Do you practice rolling admissions? Is there an advantage to submitting the application early? We do not practice rolling admissions. All applications are reviewed at the same time after the deadline has passed. Admissions decisions are typically released in early March, and it is not possible to expedite individual admissions decisions. What is your deferral policy? The GSD does not offer deferrals. If you are admitted and are unable to accept the offer, it would be necessary to reapply. I applied to the GSD in the past, but would like to reapply. What is the process for reapplying? Any former applicant wishing to reapply, including GSD students applying for another degree, must resubmit all forms and documentation, with the exception of recommendations. If you applied within the previous two years, you may import previous recommendations. We strongly encourage that you submit at least one new letter of recommendation. If you are applying to a program different than the one you applied to previously, you may wish to submit all new recommendations. If you previously submitted official test scores and they are still valid during the year in which you are applying (within five years for GRE, and within two years for the TOEFL), you would not need to resubmit those scores. I submitted my application but would like to make a change to my portfolio/essay/resume, etc. Is this possible? Once you submit your application, you won’t be able to make any changes, additions, or substitutions. Please review your application carefully before submission. As an international student interested in an F-1 STEM OPT extension, which GSD programs are STEM designated? The following programs are STEM designated: MArch I MArch I AP MArch II MLA I MLA I AP MLA II MUP MAUD/MLAUD MDE MDes Ecologies MDes Mediums Please see the Harvard International Office’s (HIO) website to learn more about F-1 STEM extensions. Back to Top Prerequisite Course Requirements Do I need to have taken specific courses during my undergraduate studies in order to apply? The MArch I /AP and MLA I/AP degree programs require specific prerequisite courses (see charts below). These courses must be taken at the college level, for credit, and completed with a grade of B- or higher. Although we provide examples of pre-approved courses below, we do accept a wide range of courses, including courses taken at your undergraduate institution, online at an accredited institution, and at community colleges. Prerequisite courses, which you are asked to list on your application, will be evaluated during the application review process. While it is not a requirement that you complete all prerequisite courses before applying, it is recommended that you complete or be in the process of completing as many as possible before the application deadline. MArch I/AP REQUIRED COURSES PRE-APPROVED COURSES One semester of calculus – Typically satisfied by a college-level calculus course. Straighterline Online General Calculus I Harvard Extension School Math E-15: Calculus I One semester of physics – Typically satisfied by introductory algebra-based or calculus-based physics courses for science majors. The course should cover basic mechanics topics, including linear, circular, and projectile motion, vectors, forces, inertia, torque, energy, impulse, and momentum. Ideally, the course would also cover waves and thermodynamics. Straighterline General Physics I Harvard Extension School PHYS E-1AX: Physics I (Lecture): Mechanics, Elasticity, Fluids, and Diffusion Two semesters of architectural history – Typically satisfied by survey courses covering Ancient-to-Renaissance and Renaissance-to-Modern, or one history of architecture survey course that covers the Renaissance to Modern periods plus a course that focuses on a particular time period or topic in the history of architecture. If admitted, students will have the opportunity to take the GSD’s special section of the online course The Architectural Imagination. HarvardX: The Architectural Imagination (Please note that if you choose to take this course prior to admission you will be required to retake it if admitted to the program. We recommend waiting to see if you are admitted before enrolling.) MLA I/AP REQUIRED COURSES PRE-APPROVED COURSES One semester of environmental science – May be satisfied by a college-level course in environmental science, biology, ecology, geology, and/or botany. Straighterline: Introduction to Environmental Science One semester of history of the built environment – May be satisfied by a college-level course in the history of architecture (preferred), the history of gardens and designed landscapes, environmental history, and/or urban history. Harvard Extension School: Designing the American City: Civic Aspirations and Urban Form UC Berkeley Extension School: American Environmental and Cultural History One semester of visual arts – May be satisfied by a college-level course in drawing (preferred), painting, sculpture, and/or graphics. Academy of Art University: LAN 605 OL, Drawing as Process What if I haven’t met one or more of the course prerequisites? Can I still apply? Yes, you may still apply. If you are admitted but have not completed one or more of the prerequisite courses, you will be required to complete the courses before enrolling in the fall semester. Keep in mind that it is in your best interest to complete most of the prerequisites before you apply. Not only will this strengthen your application, if admitted it will make the summer before you enroll more enjoyable if you don’t have to complete multiple classes. Can I use AP classes to fulfill the prerequisites? Upon review, scores of 4 or 5 on AP exams will fulfill prerequisites only if your undergraduate school has awarded credit for the relevant courses and the credits appear on your transcript.For physics, AP Physics 1 or C, or IB Higher Level Physics courses may satisfy the requirement if the course is recognized by the students’ undergraduate institution and in accordance with the institutions’ requirements. (Test scores from AP Physics 2, the IB Standard Level Physics, and the gaokao university entrance exam do not fulfill the prerequisite.) How are prerequisite courses approved? Can I have my courses reviewed before I apply? There is a section within the application specifically dedicated to prerequisite courses where you will be asked to upload syllabi, course descriptions, and transcripts for classes that you believe will satisfy each prerequisite requirement. Admissions committees will review these materials as part of your application. If admitted, the prerequisite information you provide will be evaluated and you will be notified in your admitted student portal as to whether or not you have satisfied the prerequisites.While you are welcome to contact Admissions for general advice about prerequisites ahead of the application deadline, we cannot make a final determination or guarantee that a specific class will satisfy a requirement. Back to Top TOEFL Exam Who is required to take the TOEFL? International students, except those from countries where English is the native language, must submit scores from the TOEFL internet-based test (TOEFL iBT). When requesting that scores be sent to Harvard University, applicants should use the institution code for the Graduate School of Design (3455); a department code is not needed. However, if you are required to enter a department code, choose the department that best aligns with the program you are applying to. Note that we will receive the scores regardless of the department code you submitted. Applicants required to take the TOEFL should schedule their test in time to receive at least their unofficial scores prior to submitting their application. Overall and individual section scores should be reported on the application form. To ensure that your official scores arrive by the deadline, we recommend taking the test no later than December 16, 2021. TOEFL scores are valid for two years from the date of the test, and we are not able to accept test scores for expired tests. Please note that we do not accept the IELTS. What if the TOEFL iBT is not offered in my country or test centers are closed? For the fall 2022 application, the GSD will accept the at-home version of the TOEFL iBT. Can I waive the TOEFL exam? International applicants who have studied or lived in English speaking countries are not exempt from the TOEFL requirement, with the following exception: if you have studied at least three years in full-time residence toward a bachelor’s degree in the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, or Canada, you are exempt from the TOEFL requirement. Please note that applicants whose native language is not English, and who are enrolled or have received a master’s degree in the U.S. or the countries above, must submit TOEFL scores. There are no exceptions to this policy. Is there a minimum TOEFL score that must be achieved? The preferred total TOEFL iBT score is 104 or above, with individual section scores of 26 or above. The minimum required TOEFL iBT total score is 92, with the following minimum section requirements: reading, 23; speaking, 23; listening, 23; writing, 23. (Please note that we do not accept MyBest TOEFL score reports.) If one of your individual scores is below 26, you also may choose to take the Duolingo test in order to provide the admissions committee with additional information about your English language abilities. Please note that the Duolingo test is recommended, not required. If TOEFL iBT is not available, and the paper-based TOEFL is taken, applicants must achieve a minimum total score of 577 and a minimum of 57 on each section. A score of 600 is preferred, with individual section scores of 60.If you are admitted and your scores fall below our preferred score requirements, you may be required to take an English course in the Boston area the summer before enrolling at the GSD. Can other tests of English proficiency, such as the IELTS, be substituted for the TOEFL? We accept the TOEFL as a test of English language proficiency only. It is not possible to substitute other tests. Application Prerequisites TOEFL Exam Back to Top Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26