Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Bill Bangert | Archives I'm a proud Bearcat who translated his broadcasting major in the College Conservatory of Music into a 30-year career in radio, including 17 years in Cincinnati on WLW and WEBN. I write about news and research in the College of Allied Health Sciences, College of Nursing, and most areas of the College of Medicine. bill.bangert@uc.edu | 513-558-4519 286 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First Yahoo News/WCPO: Health leaders investigating monkeypox May 24, 2022 WCPO interviewed Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine about the monkeypox outbreak. Cincinnati Business Courier: Filak’s own medical practice lends... May 23, 2022 The Cincinnati Business Courier profiled Andrew Filak, MD, dean of the UC College of Medicine. Spectrum News: Doctors explain high COVID-19 death rate despite... May 19, 2022 With the United States recently hitting one million COVID-19 deaths, many are wondering why there have been so many deaths despite having a higher than average vaccination rate. Medical professionals explained the current climate of COVID-19 in the hospitals and area communities. One of the experts interviewed for a story posted by Spectrum News was Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Scientific American: Is it COVID-19 or is it allergies? May 11, 2022 Ahmad Sedaghat, MD, PhD, associate professor and director of the Division of Rhinology, Allergy and Anterior Skull Base Surgery in the UC College of Medicine was interviewed for a story published by Scientific American on the differences between allergies and COVID-19. Healthline: What we know about Eli Lilly’s experimental... May 9, 2022 Shailendra Patel, MD, PhD, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism at the UC College of Medicine was quoted in a Healthline article on Eli Lilly's experimental weight-loss drug. UC research creates Kidney Transplant Equity Index May 3, 2022 New research out of the University of Cincinnati established the Kidney Transplant Equity Index, examining the number of minority patients transplanted at a kidney transplant center relative to the prevalence of minority patients on dialysis in each center’s health service area. WVXU: A new University of Cincinnati study traces the impact of... April 21, 2022 A study by a UC College of Nursing researcher examines the impact of mass incarceration on young people and their families. Samantha Boch, PhD, worked as a nurse in several correctional systems in Ohio, which sparked an interest in the role mass incarceration of young people has on them and their families. Medscape: Analysis boosts Fluvoxamine for COVID, but what's the... April 14, 2022 A report published recently in JAMA Open Network finds there's a strong likelihood that the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox) may moderately lower rates of hospitalization due to COVID-19 in unvaccinated patients. However, outside experts cited by Medscape differ over whether the evidence from just three studies is strong enough to warrant adding the drug to the COVID-19 armamentarium. One of those experts sources is Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Cincinnati.com: Greater Cincinnati lags in COVID-19 vaccines.... April 4, 2022 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is updating its recommendations to allow certain immunocompromised individuals and people over 50 to be eligible for another COVID-19 booster if four months have passed since their first. Cincinnati.com talked to several local experts for the story, including Louito Edje, MD, associate dean for graduate medical education at the UC College of Medicine. Medscape: Supermarket diet advice improves DASH adherence:... April 4, 2022 Researchers at UC collaborated with Kroger on the SuperWIN study, which provided dietary advice in the store for 250 enrolled patients. The study was presented at American College of Cardiology 2022 Scientific Session by Dylan Steen, MD, of the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine. He was interviewed by Medscape about the collaboration. UC, Kroger form research collaboration to improve health outcomes April 4, 2022 The University of Cincinnati, UC Health, Cincinnati Children’s and Kroger are partnering to help make health care more accessible to consumers in a first-of-its kind research study designed to improve health outcomes through retail-based dietary interventions. WCPO: Tri-State recognizes Transgender Day of Visibility March 31, 2022 March 31 is Transgender Day of Visibility and some events are marking the day in Cincinnati. Attention is also being brought to the transgender medicine program started in 2016 at the UC College of Medicine by Sarah Pickle, MD, of the Department of Family and Community Medicine. WCPO interviewed fourth-year medical student Malia Schram about the program. UC research shows renewed promise for COVID-19 convalescent... March 31, 2022 Research from UC shows renewed hope in reducing hospitalizations from COVID-19 through the use of convalescent plasma when given early in the disease course. The study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Students, faculty and staff embrace transgender medicine... March 29, 2022 The UC College of Medicine established a transgender medicine curriculum in 2016. Sarah Pickle, MD, of the Department of Family Medicine talks about the program as do four transgender students. HealthyWomen: What’s sexual orientation got to do with it? LGTBQ... March 28, 2022 A 2020 Kaiser Family Foundation survey found that LGBTQ people were more likely than others to have had a negative experience with a healthcare provider and twice as likely to feel their provider dismissed their concerns or assumed something about them without asking. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top