Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid Student Budget Calculator- Academic Year 2022-2023 = items contain hints and tips. Instructions This budget calculator requires JavaScript to work appropriately. It is designed to be used by full time students while referring to their financial aid awards and other resources. The figures are based on the standard HGSE student budget and allowable living expenses for the 9 month academic year- also known as the estimated cost of attendance. Total financial aid from all sources can not exceed the total student budget, including the living expense allowances. Your actual living and personal expenses may vary from our allowances, but they should not be exceeded. Students with less expenses than our allowances should consider reducing loans if applicable. You are encouraged to review expenses and the full report to determine if there will be any budget short falls. Reviewing the monthly versus semesterly breakdown in expenses will hopefully help you in staying on a monthly budget and not overspending early in each term. If you have a shortfall, you must either increase resources (supplemental loans may be an option) and/or reduce actual expenses (such as rent or personal expenses) to help stay on budget. Students are encouraged to review the supplemental loan information on our website to determine which loan meets your needs and how to apply for these loans. Please note this calculator is intended as a planning tool and general guide. Actual expenses and resources may vary. Resources Financial Aid Applied To Student Bill Please refer to your financial aid award package to assist in completing the fields in this section. Academic Year Scholarship / Grant / Fellowship Award Harvard University policy is that scholarships may not exceed tuition and mandatory fees (excluding but not limited to fees such as Harvard rent, dependent health fees and dental insurance) applied to a student's bill. Direct Unsubsidized Loan This is a federal loan available only to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. The maximum loan eligibility is $20,500 per academic year. A 1% origination fee will be deducted upon disbursement and is calculated in this formula. Direct Grad PLUS Loan This is a federal, credit-based supplemental loan available only to U.S. citizens and permanent residents. A student may borrow up to the HGSE Cost of Attendance Budget minus all other financial aid. A 4% origination fee will be deducted upon disbursement and is calculated in this formula. HUECU Loan (International Loan) This is a private supplemental loan for international students which does not require a U.S. cosigner. HGSE students may borrow up to $17,000 through this loan program and borrowers apply for this loan through the Harvard University Employees Credit Union. Other Private Supplemental Loan Please note that private loans may have origination fees upon disbursement. Since these can vary widely, no fees have been calculated into this figure. Please be sure to account for this separately. Sponsored Payment Sponsors are outside agencies, organizations or governments who directly pay a student's bill on their behalf. Tuition Deposit This field defaults to $250 as a one-time deposit for new incoming students. If you are a returning student, please remove the $250 default amount. External Scholarships and Financial Aid Resources This can be payments from outside scholarships, AmeriCorps Awards, Veteran's Benefits, employer-based programs, etc. Do not include amounts you will pay out of pocket from personal funds. Stipend/FWS/Wages Please enter the expected "take home" amount. This field is for wages/stipends that go directly to you and not to your bill. Consider tax implications when calculating take home pay. If you are earning a one time or partial year stipend, you should divide the total amount you anticipate receiving by 9 to calculate estimated monthly stipend amount. Estimated Monthly Wages Stipend/FWS/Wages (Please note: this calculates your monthly earnings over the full nine month academic year) Savings/Checking Account Balance (prior to academic year) Please do NOT include any portion of your savings that came from your financial aid proceeds above, expected relocation costs or for other expenses you anticipate incurring before attending HGSE. This should be the amount of your personal resources that you plan to pay directly out of pocket. Total Personal Account Balances Expenses Student Type Choose a student type from the list below to determine your tuition and your monthly student budget allowances Your student type Ed.M./C.A.S. Ed.L.D. Year 1 Ed.L.D. Year 2 Ed.L.D. Year 3 Fixed Cost Budget Items (Estimates) Academic Year Tuition (Your tuition is determined by your student type) Student Health Fee This is generally required for all students, unless registered in absentia or less than half time. Contact the HGSE Registrar with questions regarding waiver criteria. Student Health Insurance Plan Health insurance is required for all students, unless you meet certain waiver criteria. Other Charges Student Budget Allowances These fields default to the HGSE estimated cost of attendance allowances, which in many cases will not be directly billed to you by Harvard. You may be able to decrease some of these costs- for example, selecting less expensive housing or limiting personal expenses to a level below the standard budget allowances. Student budgets may only include direct educational expenses incurred during the enrollment period of your program, and cannot include items such as consumer debt payments, relocation costs or automobile expenses. You should take steps to ensure your actual costs do not surpass our allowances, since your total financial aid may not exceed your estimated cost of attendance. Monthly Allowance Books and Supplies Rent, Utilities and Food The rent, utilities and food allowance is an AVERAGE cost, and generally means sharing an apartment with a roommate. Housing rates vary greatly depending on but not limited to location, number of roommates, and size. Please note that summer months are not calculated into this budget and periods of non-enrollment are not covered by financial aid. If your rent is higher than our allowance and you have a shortfall, you may need to make reductions in other discretionary expense categories (Transportation, Personal Expenses, etc.) or reassess your living arrangement. Transportation Federal Loan Fees (U.S. citizens only) Personal Expenses Research Expenses This field is available only for Ed.D. students who are in year 4 and beyond. Get Calculations In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice