COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Industrial Engineering, Major MajorIndustrial Engineering All Programs College of Engineering Industrial and Manufacturing Engineering Wichita State's dual / accelerated BS-to-MS in industrial engineering lets you complete an advanced degree, faster, by allowing you to take graduate-level courses while completing your bachelor's degree in industrial engineering or product design and manufacturing engineering—putting you closer to a high-paying career in a large number of industries and governmental organizations. Learn how industrial engineering is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Undergraduate students apply for bachelor's to master's programs using the regular Graduate School application form and admission process. To be considered for admission, students must: Have a minimum WSU GPA of 3.250 Be within 40 credit hours of completing the requirements for a bachelor's degree Admission requirements Inside the Program Grad student's career takes flight with Spirit internship As a Shocker, you have access to a huge list of employers that provide internship opportunities for students looking to get hands-on job experience. Business grad Anushiya Shiley Gomes returned to WSU to earn her master's, and in the process received a coveted internship at Spirit AeroSystems, one of Wichita's top employers. Her time in the classroom gave her the background to succeed at Spirit. Curriculum In this ABET-accredited program, you'll study core industrial engineering courses. You can also choose from a number of technical electives—allowing you to specialize in areas such as engineering systems, ergonomics or manufacturing engineering. As a senior, you'll work in a team on a two-semester project, giving you practical experience you'll put to use in your future engineering career. View the curriculum Careers WSU's vast industry connections—and experience-based learning for every major—gives industrial engineering students the chance to grow their professional network, build a resume and earn a paycheck, all while still in school, leading to high-paying careers in diverse fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Management Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Engineering Technology - Engineering Technology Management Mechanical Engineering Manufacturing Engineering (Minor) Operations Management (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©