Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close FAQ Below is a list of frequently asked questions about the undergraduate program at the Carroll School of Management. If you are a current undergraduate in the Carroll School looking for information about registration and recent academic policy changes related to coronavirus, please refer to our FAQs specifically for Carroll School undergraduates as well as the University's COVID-19 site. If you have a question that is not addressed below or need additional information, please contact the Office of the Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduates in Fulton 315. The Office of the Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate Students Where is the Senior Associate Dean’s Office? The Office of the Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduates is located in Fulton Hall, Room 315. Our office provides administration and houses the staff that works with Carroll School undergraduate students in academic and career advising. Who do I notify if I am absent from class? Students may be excused from class for reasons, including, but not limited to, illness, death/critical illness of a family member, personal emergency or religious observance according to BC policy. Students will not be excused for non-emergency absences that have not been authorized in advance and/or for reasons including but not limited to medical/dental appointments, job interviews or employment obligations and personal or family events or celebrations. Students should email their professors of impending absence. All makeup arrangements are made with the student and the Professor. Students should submit a Request for Excused Absence Form, and appropriate documentation, so our office can contact their professors. Leave of Absence/Withdrawal from University How do I arrange a Leave of Absence or a Readmission? You may fill out a Leave of Absence form or Readmission Form and return it to the Senior Associate Dean's Office - carrollug@bc.edu. If you are a student looking to take a leave of absence, contact your staff advisor in the Senior Associate Dean’s Office to discuss the process. How do I withdraw from the University? Students must fill out a withdrawal form. Students who wish to withdraw from the University should arrange to meet with a member of the Senior Associate Dean’s office. Courses, Registration, and Grades How do I arrange a course overload? The standard semester course load for undergraduates is five 3-credit courses and a maximum of 20 credits, including labs and other 1- or 2- credit courses. Students are eligible to overload if they have earned at least a 3.0 overall cumulative GPA or a 3.0 GPA in the semester immediately prior to the one for which the overload is sought, in which case they may register online for a sixth course of three credits or more and a maximum of 24 credits, including labs and other 1- and 2-credit courses, during the first seven class days of the semester. Students are not permitted to take a sixth course of three credits or more during their first semester at Boston College. Second-semester freshmen who wish to overload with a sixth course of three credits or more must obtain permission from their Senior Associate Dean. What is a course approval form? A course approval form grants permission to take a course at other accredited universities. Students must obtain this approval before enrolling in any course away from Boston College. What is drop/add and when does it take place? Drop/add is the term applied to the first week of classes in each semester when students are allowed to adjust their academic schedules. For exact dates, visit the University’s academic calendar. How do I override into a closed course? You will need to go to the department offering the course to seek an override or get onto a waitlist. Can I pass/fail a course and how do I do it? Sophomores, juniors, and seniors may enroll online in a non-major, non-minor, or non-Core course on a pass/fail basis during the first seven class-days of the semester. Second-semester freshmen who have been approved by their Senior Associate Dean for an overload of a sixth course of three credits or more may take that course on a pass/fail basis, in which case the course may not be used to fulfill a major, minor, or Core requirement. No more than one course of three or more credits may be taken pass/fail in any semester. No student may take more than six pass/fail courses of three or more credits for credit toward a degree. Courses in the Carroll School of Management and the Woods College may not be taken on a pass/fail basis. Departments may designate some courses as not available in general for pass/fail enrollment. How do I withdraw from a course? Withdrawal forms are available in Fulton 315 or can be found on the Student Services website. The form must be filled out and left with the Senior Associate Dean for processing. The Senior Associate Dean’s office encourages students who are withdrawing from a class to meet with a member of our advising staff to discuss how to make up the course credit. What if I disagree with a grade? A student should consult personally with his or her professor about a disputed grade. If further satisfaction is required, the student should speak with the Department Chair. Please visit the academic policies section for more specific details on academic grievances. Do failures remain on my permanent transcript? Failures (F) do remain on a student’s transcript. What’s a deficiency? A course deficiency is incurred any time you do not successfully complete the expected number of courses in a semester because of failure, course withdrawal, or underloading. How can a request a copy of my transcript? Student Services has instructions on how to request an official transcript. Please note it can take several days. What other schools cross-register with Boston College? Student Services website has information regarding cross-registration. Concentrations and Majors/Minors Outside of the Carroll School How do I change/add a concentration? Students can declare a concentration on this form. If you would like to declare Accounting, please email Maureen Chancey in the Accounting Department in Fulton 520. How many concentrations can a Carroll School student have? Carroll School students can have a maximum of two concentrations. Can I major or minor in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences? Yes, after declaring a concentration in the Carroll School, students can also pursue a major or minor in the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences (MCAS) or Lynch School of Education and Human Development (LSEHD). Students who enroll in a MCAS or LSEHD minor may reduce, by one, their management core courses; note that not all courses are eligible for this reduction. All students must take Portico, Statistics, Financial Accounting, Economic Principles, and Coding for Business. Students who pursue a MCAS major may reduce their management core by two courses, with the exceptions noted above. Students who wish to pursue one of these options must consult with the Senior Associate Dean’s office. Students can declare by visiting the department. Advising Who is my faculty advisor? Advising is done through a team advising model that changes each year as the advising needs of students develop. Freshmen are assigned faculty advisors through Portico. Sophomores are assigned to a staff advisor because many are still undeclared in their concentration. Juniors and seniors are assigned a faculty advisor within their concentration area and can find their advisor's name and email address through the Portal but are still invited to meet with their staff advisor and use the many advising resources available through the Senior Associate Dean's Please visit the Advising section to learn more. Who are staff advisors? Staff advisors are non-faculty academic advisors who work in the Office of the Senior Associate Dean and provide additional advising to students beyond their faculty advisor. Sophomore, junior, and senior students whose last names begin with A-F are assigned to Sara Nunziata (nunziats@bc.edu), G-K are assigned to Ally Galati (galatia@bc.edu), L-Q are assigned to Josephine Xiong (xiongj@bc.edu), and R-Z are assigned to Erica Graf (grafe@bc.edu). Visit the Carroll School's undergraduate advising website for more information. Who are the peer advisors? The Peer Advisors are seniors in the Carroll School who offer drop-in advising hours throughout the semester. Stop by to talk with them about course selection, picking a concentration, studying abroad, getting involved on campus and more. Drop-in hours are held in front of Fulton suite 315, or by appointment. They’ve been there, they’ve done it, now it’s your turn to tap into their wisdom! Visit the Peer Advisor website to learn more about this year's team and see a schedule of their hours. What resources do I have for internship/career advising? Carroll School students have two resources for career advising. First, the Boston College Career Center offers a wide range of career resources including on campus recruiting, career fairs, resume workshops, interview prep, and many more programs to help students with the internship and job search process. Please visit the Career Center website for a list of upcoming events. The Carroll School also has career advisors for internship and career advising. Please visit the Carroll School Career Advising website to make appointments and view their drop-in hours. Students should also enroll in the Sophomore Accelerator program designed to give students a one-stop shop to all the fundamentals of internship/career search Summer Classes Can I take a summer class? See the University Catalog for information on summer classes. Study Abroad If I would like to study abroad, what do I do? You must first visit the Office of Global Education (OGE) in Hovey House and meet with an Advising Assistant. After you have narrowed down your destinations through this meeting and doing some research, you will meet with an International Study Advisor. It may be helpful for you to talk to a Carroll School student who has studied abroad to find out more about the details of the program you are interested in. Please contact a staff advisor to get a list of names or talk to a Peer Advisor. What management core classes can I take abroad? The only three Carroll School core classes that may possibly be approved are Organizational Behavior, Principles of Marketing and Operations Management. You can only obtain concentration elective approval from the department after completing the core classes (e.g. Fundamentals of Finance or Marketing Principles.) Any classes taken abroad must be approved by the department at BC prior to the student leaving for abroad. Final Exams What happens if I have three final exams in one day? Students with three final examinations scheduled for the same day are entitled to take a makeup exam at a later date during exam week. If one of the three exams is a common departmental exam, this is the exam that is taken at the later date. Students should not schedule departure flights until after the last day of exams, unless their examination schedule is definite. Academic Achievement/Honors What is Beta Gamma Sigma? Beta Gamma Sigma is a national business honor society and only Juniors in the top 5% or Seniors in the top 10% of their classes are invited to join. Who maintains the Dean's List and how do I get on it? The Dean’s List is generated by the Office of Student Services. The qualifications for listing can be found on the Student Services website. What does it take to graduate with honors? To learn more about latin honors, please visit the University catalog. Tutoring Is academic tutoring available at BC? Academic tutoring is available through the Connors Family Learning Center in O’Neill Library. Internships Can I get academic credit for an internship? Students may receive a one-credit practicum for unpaid work in the business world. You will need to complete internship paperwork with your supervisor and submit it to the Senior Associate Dean’s Office. Students will need to work a minimum of 10 hours per week in order to get credit for an internship. You may get credit for an unpaid internship twice during your four years here at Boston College. If I am an international student, can I use Curricular Practical Training (CPT)? Carroll School students should contact Sara Nunziata to discuss how you may be able to pursue CPT. More information about CPT can be obtained from the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS). Scholarships and Fellowships What scholarships are available through Boston College? Visit the University Fellowships Committee website to see a list of research and fellowship opportunities. Graduation How do I know if I am set to graduate? The Office of Student Services in Lyons is the final authority in clearing students for graduation. Internal Transfer I am a current Boston College student studying in one of the other schools. Can I transfer into the Carroll School of Management? Boston College undergraduate students can apply for internal transfer to the Carroll School of Management. Students have one opportunity to apply for internal transfer into the Carroll School of Management: May 1st in their freshmen year. Students would be accepted to begin in the fall of their sophomore year. The Carroll School accepts a very small number of internal transfer students via a lottery process. No more than 10 students will be accepted in any class year. Students must meet all of the eligibility requirements below. To be eligible, students must: have a minimum 3.4 grade point average have completed the math core and Principles of Economics have a record free of any academic deficiencies An application form, academic plan for time remaining at Boston College, and unofficial transcript must be submitted via the linked google form by the May 1 deadline. If you have questions, please contact Ally Galati. This page links to PDF files. Use this link to download Adobe Reader if needed. Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College