Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music PhD Apply Request More Info Music PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Music PhD Develop expertise in one of four areas of specialization with the PhD in Music in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Students in this research-based doctoral program can choose from the Composition, Music Studies, Music Theory or Musicology concentrations, depending on their creative and scholarly interests. Graduates pursue careers in composition and higher education, as well as make significant contributions to academic research. Students have seven years to complete the Music PhD program on a full-time or part-time basis. At the end of your course work, you'll write a dissertation to demonstrate research skills gained during your time in the program. Composition students must compose an original work as part of their final dissertation. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Concentrations Since the Music PhD program focuses on academic research versus performance, coursework is a blend of seminars focused on one of the following areas of study. Composition-Music In the Composition concentration, you’ll refine your skills in writing music through coursework and seminars intended to hone compositional forms and techniques across a variety of genres. View Concentration Details Music Studies The interdisciplinary Music Studies concentration allows you to focus on a combination of studies tailored to your professional interests, including Composition and Music Theory, or Musicology and Music Theory. View Concentration Details Music Theory The Music Theory concentration focuses on how composers and musicians write music, including the concepts, methods and structures they use. View Concentration Details Musicology In the Musicology concentration, coursework investigates the social and historical contexts of music. You’ll understand music as a critical part of history and society, as well as its function as a performance art. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum The Music PhD requires 42 credits beyond the master’s degree, and each concentration in the PhD program has its own required core courses. From there, you’ll work with your advisor to select additional courses based on your personal academic, creative and professional goals. Available courses include some of the following. Current Topics in Musicology and Theory Composing Music for Films History and Pedagogy of Musicology Post-Tonal Theory Seminar in Composition Schenkerian Analysis Scoring and Audio Design for Video Games Learn more about the required courses for the Music PhD. Related Graduate Degrees Composition MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Music MA Music MS Music Theory MM Music Therapy PhD Music Therapy MMT Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Cynthia Folio, professor of Music Theory and chair of the Music Studies Department, is the program contact for the Music PhD. Phone: 215-204-8598 Email: cynthia.folio@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUSC-PHD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Ensembles & Performance Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info