Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Financial Aid Menu Search TTU Financial Aid Home Satisfactory Academic Progress Federal law requires that institutions of higher education monitor the academic progress of students who receive federal financial aid. In order to remain eligible for federal, state and some institutional financial aid, students must comply with Texas Tech University standards for Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP). All undergraduate, graduate and law students will be evaluated annually for SAP at the end of the Spring Semester. Requirements Minimum GPA: An undergraduate and law student must maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.00. A graduate or professional student must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.00 or the minimum GPA standard as defined by the degree program. Minimum Pace: A student must successfully complete at least 67% of the credit hours they attempt. Maximum Timeframe: A student may attempt no more that 150% of the credit hours required by his or her degree program. Failure to Meet SAP Requirements Any undergraduate, graduate, and law student who fails to meet SAP requirements during the annual review, is placed on Financial Aid Suspension and is not eligible to receive financial aid without a successful appeal. Should the student not wish to appeal, the student must meet SAP requirements before aid eligibility can be re-established. A student with less than three processed SAP appeals is eligible to submit a SAP appeal, please download the SAP form on our Financial Aid website at www.financialaid.ttu.edu. The completed appeal must be submitted to the Student Financial Aid and Scholarship Office at 302 West Hall or you can submit directly to finaid.sap@ttu.edu Please submit a complete SAP Appeal by the deadline date of the 12th class date. Late Appeals will not be accepted and incomplete appeals will not be reviewed. With an approved SAP Appeal, the student is on probation. At the completion of the probationary semester, the student whose appeal was approved, will be reviewed for SAP. If SAP standards are maintained, the student will remain eligible for financial aid. This review process will happen at the end of every term until student is back in good standing or becomes ineligible. Students with more than three appeals are ineligible for federal financial aid (grants, loans, college work study, etc.) To regain financial aid eligibility, you must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards as stated in our SAP Policy. SAP standards are reviewed after each Spring term. Our SAP policy is available on our financial aid website at: www.depart.ttu.edu/financialaid/policyandprocedure The U.S. Department of Education requires that all students be notified of their financial aid SAP standing regardless if they are receiving financial aid. If you have not submitted a FAFSA and are not receiving financial aid, you can check your financial aid eligibility on your Raiderlink, please follow the steps outlined in the SAP Frequently Asked Questions below. Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ View My Financial Aid SAP Standing Log into Raiderlink Click on the MY Tech Tab Under Financial Aid and Scholarship click View/accept Aid Package Select current Aid Year Select overall financial Aid status link at the bottom of the page Click on Academic progress How do I determine what GPA I need to earn for the semester in order to meet the cumulative GPA requirement? You may access the GPA Calculator to calculate the semester GPA required to meet the cumulative GPA required for financial aid. How is Pace calculated? Pace is measured by dividing the total number of hours successfully completed by the total number of hours attempted as shown below: Pace = Total # of hours successfully completed ÷ Total # of hours attempted Hours successfully completed include TTU courses with a grade of A through D- for undergraduates and A through C for graduates, or transfer courses, credit by exam courses and pass/fail courses where credit (CR) was received. Hours not successfully completed include incomplete courses, no credit (NC) courses, withdrawn courses (including Q-drops), courses with no posted grade and pass/fail courses that earned a failing grade. Total number of hours attempted is the aggregate of both the successfully and unsuccessfully completed courses.Repeated coursework will be included in pace. Remedial and ESL coursework are excluded from pace. How is program length determined? The length of the program is determined by the department. The student should access the department website in order to obtain this information. What is an Academic Plan? An academic plan is a multi-semester plan that may require students to successfully complete a certain number of hours per semester, or earn a specific semester GPA so as to meet SAP requirements by a particular point in time. An academic plan is developed when: a student successfully appeals Financial Aid Suspension and it is determined that SAP requirements cannot be/will not be met at the end of one semester; or a student fails to meet SAP at the end of their probationary period and successfully appeals Financial Aid Suspension. What if I missed the appeal deadline? If you missed the appeal deadline you may submit a new appeal of your next term of enrollment. My appeal was denied, can I appeal again? NO. To regain financial aid eligibility, you must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress Standards as stated in our SAP Policy. Our SAP Policy is available on our website at: www.financialaid.ttu.edu If I have a 2.00 GPA, why do I have to file an appeal? Academic GPA is different than financial aid GPA. Financial Aid looks at every class taken since you started college career What happens when I drop a class? If you drop a class prior to the 1st class date, this will not affect your financial aid GPA. However, if you drop a class after the 1st class day financial aid sees this as attempted hours and not passed which effects your PACE. Why does it take so long to process an appeal? There are several factors involved in reviewing appeals. If the appeal is not complete when submitted it delays the process. Appeals must be complete before they are sent to the committee for review. A complete appeal must include the Academic Advisor portion, your portion with written hardship with supporting documentation. What is time frame and why should I file an appeal? Attempted credit hours may not exceed 150% of the educational program. You need to file an appeal to explain why you have gone over the 150% allowed for your program. Keep in mind any attempted hours will count towards this calculation whether passed, failed or dropped. Financial Aid Like Financial Aid on FacebookLike Financial Aid on Facebook Follow Financial Aid on twitterFollow Financial Aid on twitter Subscribe to Financial Aid on YouTubeSubscribe to Financial Aid on YouTube Follow Financial Aid on InstagramFollow Financial Aid on Instagram Address Texas Tech University | Student Financial Aid & Scholarships | West Hall 301 | P.O. Box 45011, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone P: 806.742.3681 | F: 806.742.0880 Email finaid.advisor@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityDec 17, 2020 9:03 AM Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Calculating Costs Financial Aid Cost to Attend Tech Back Cost to Attend Net Cost Calculator Find My Financial Aid & Scholarship Advisor Red Raider Guarantee Study Abroad Types of Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Scholarships Financial Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Back For Continuing Students Incoming Freshmen Incoming Transfer External Scholarship Search Grants Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Pell Grant Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant (SEOG) Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant (IASG) Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Texas Public Education Grant (TPEG) TEXAS Grant TTU Grant Federal TEACH Grant Student Employment Loans Financial Aid Types of Aid Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Student Athletes Requirements & Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Verification Forms Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Financial Aid Forms Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Special Circumstances Financial Aid Requirements & Forms Back Special Circumstances Dependency Change Cost of Attendance Review Satisfactory Academic Progress View/Accept Financial Aid Borrower Resources Financial Aid Borrower Resources Back Loan Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Loan Options Back Federal Direct Loan Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Graduate/Professional Students Federal Direct PLUS Loan for Parents College Access Loan Texas B-On-Time Loan Private Education Loan Understanding Loans Financial Aid Borrower Resources Understanding Loans Back Borrowed Assistance Financial Awareness Counseling Understanding Interest Leave of Absence or Graduation Grace Period Loan Servicer Common Loan Definition & Glossary Repayment Options Financial Aid Borrower Resources Repayment Options Back Federal Loan Exit Counseling Repaying your Loans Deferment & Forbearance Cancellation & Forgiveness Loan Consolidation Avoiding Default Consumer Information Financial Aid Back Consumer Information Planning and Assessment Policy and Procedure U.S. Department of Education's College Affordability & Transparency Center Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index