<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Jiaojun Wang MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Xi-an, China Undergrad Education Xi'an International Studies University, BA, 2011 Previous Experience Inke, iQIYI, Accenture HBS Activities Greater China Club alumni chair “Every conversation at HBS leaves me inspired but humbled.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? After seven years of working, I wanted to take a step back, reflect upon my major life decisions, and start afresh. I miss campus so much! Walking on the tree-lined roads, studying in the storied libraries, and working with friends late at night on meaningful projects—all are too good to be true! Coming to HBS is like... ...scuba diving in a kaleidoscopic sea, where a whole new world unfolds itself. You never know what is in store for you with the next breath, a spectacular storm of sardines or a mysterious shipwreck—every day is an adventure. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...having a group of great friends who will never let you settle and always challenge you to see things differently. Every conversation leaves me inspired but humbled. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? Archeologist! Growing up in a Chinese city with over three thousand years of history, I was gripped by ancient civilizations and all their untold stories. What is your favorite childhood memory? My dad could not hide his excitement when he took me and my mom to the “great new restaurant he just discovered.” As a little kid, I was enthralled by the best food I have ever tasted, and the brand was no other than “KFC.” Now that KFC is ubiquitous in China, I never forget the simple joy it brought to me and my family. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My father. He is an admirable leader who never gives up, from whom I inherit the “I can” spirit, which challenges me to fear nothing and always get ahead. What’s the best thing about your home town? My hometown is a very historic city in China called Xi’an, home to Terracotta Warriors that date back to over two thousand years ago, which are often referred to as the Eighth Wonder of the World. Topics Entertainment Media Home Region Xi-an, China Undergrad Education Xi'an International Studies University, BA, 2011 Previous Experience Inke, iQIYI, Accenture HBS Activities Greater China Club alumni chair Topics Entertainment Media ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College