Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Religious Studies Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Standing Faculty Emeriti Faculty Graduate Group Adjunct Faculty Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Students Recent Degree Recipients and Job Market Candidates Undergraduate Majors and Minors Staff News Events Courses Undergraduate Major Minor Honors Combined B.A./M.A. Research Opportunities Awards Graduate Research Areas Requirements Application Graduate Awards Resources Search Home Faculty Graduate Undergraduate Department News Gabriel Raeburn awarded Dean’s Teaching Fellowship for Excellence! May 31, 2022 The department is happy to announce that Dr. Gabriel Raeburn has been awarded a Dean’s Teaching Fellowship for Excellence from the School of Arts and Sciences! Dr. Read More Congratulations to Dr. Gabriel Raeburn! April 22, 2022 Congratulations to Gabriel Raeburn, who successfully defended his dissertation "Preaching Prosperity: Pentecostals and the Transformation of American Evangelicalism, 1946–1988" on April 22, 2022! Read More Grad Student Awards and Fellowships April 20, 2022 The Department is delighted to announce that several doctoral students in our program have recently received awards and fellowships! Read More Undergraduate Research Published in National Honor Society Journal March 21, 2022 Emma Boockvar and Zoe Millstein, two students in Professor Robb's Religious Studies Course Gender, Sexuality, and Religion have had their research accepted for publication by The Journ Read More Max Dugan Named a 2021-2022 Dean's Scholar! January 21, 2022 The Department of Religious Studies is delighted to announce that doctoral candidate Max Dugan has been appointed a 2021-2022 Dean's Scholar in the School of Arts and Sciences. Read More Prof. Elias Awarded Major Grant from Templeton Religion Trust December 13, 2021 Congratulations to Prof. Read More Anthea Butler Named Geraldine R. Segal Professor in American Social Thought October 12, 2021 Congratulations to Prof. Anthea Butler, chair of Religious Studies, who has been named Geraldine R. Segal Professor in American Social Thought! Read More Professor Robb's Archival Work with Students Featured in Penn Today September 13, 2021 Professor Robb's project of creating a digital archive of the letters of an 18th century Mughal woman was featured in the latest issue of Penn Today. Read More Professor Thomas Publishes Chapter in New Book on Religious Freedom September 12, 2021 Professor Thomas recently published a chapter titled "Microclimates of Religious Freedom" in a volume edited by Penn professors Heather J. Read More Prof. Butler, Department Chair, Promoted to Full Professor! August 12, 2021 The Department of Religious Studies is thrilled to announce that Prof. Anthea Butler has been formally promoted to the rank of full professor. Prof. Read More About Us With particular strengths in the study of Christianity, Judaism, American religions, Islam, secularism, Buddhism, and other Asian religions, the Department of Religious Studies emphasizes descriptive, historical, and theoretical approaches to the study of religion. Learn More Faculty Bookshelf Death before Dying: The Sufi Poems of Sultan Bahu These 115 poems introduce readers in English to Sultan Bahu (d. 1691), a Sufi mystical poet who continues to be one of the most beloved writers in Punjabi. Song and Story in Biblical Narrative: The History of a Literary Convention in Ancient Israel This book examines a literary form within the Bible that has slipped through the cracks of modern scholarship: the mixing of song and story in biblical narrative. The Origin of the Jews The Jews have one of the longest continuously recorded histories of any people in the world, but what do we actually know about their origins? Women in the Church of God in Christ: Making a Sanctified World The Church of God in Christ (COGIC), an African American Pentecostal denomination founded in 1896, has become the largest Pentecostal denomination in the United States today. Surviving Sacrilege: Cultural Persistence in Jewish Antiquity In a world of relentless and often violent change, what does it take for a culture to survive? The Throne Carrier of God: The Life and Thought of ‘Ala’ ad-dawla as-Simnani This book constitutes a comprehensive investigation of the life and teachings of one of the most famous Sufis of the Iranian world. Muslims Against the Muslim League: Critiques of the Idea of Pakistan An anthology of essays, edited by Ali Usman Qasmi and Megan Eaton Robb, exploring Muslim criticism of the founding of Pakistan. The Evolution of Affect Theory: The Humanities, the Sciences, and the Study of Power Across the humanities, a set of interrelated concepts - excess, becoming, the event - have gained purchase as analytical tools for thinking about power. Contact Us Department of Religious Studies 201 Cohen Hall 249 S. 36th Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6304 Anthea Butler Department Chair Donovan Schaefer Interim Graduate Chair Justin McDaniel Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn WebLogin