Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Canvas Menu Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login Baylor>Canvas>Syllabi Resources Syllabi Resources NOTE: This page provides the appropriate information and disclaimers for many widely used academic technology tools at Baylor. Faculty are encouraged to cut-and-paste these passages into their syllabi as needed. Additional institutional statements can be found at https://www.baylor.edu/successcenter/index.php?id=935216 Announcements in Canvas The Announcements section of Canvas will be used to post general messages, reminders, and other pertinent course information that is relevant to all students. In addition to receiving notifications of new announcements upon logging on to Canvas, all students are required to enable real-time (i.e. ASAP) notifications for course Announcements to their respective Baylor University email address. Specific instructions for modifying Canvas notification preferences can be found at https://www.baylor.edu/canvas/doc.php/228284.pdf. Respondus LockDown Browser LockDown Browser is a custom web browser that locks down the testing environment within online courses in Blackboard or Canvas. You will be unable to print, copy, or access other websites and applications. When an assessment is started, you are locked into the browser until you submit the assessment for grading. LockDown Browser is available for both Windows and Mac. LockDown Browser can be downloaded by students at the Respondus Website. https://download.respondus.com/lockdown/download.php?id=755512061 Respondus Monitor This course may require the use of Respondus LockDown Browser and a webcam for online exams. A description of the services and the terms of use will be presented to students within LockDown Browser upon launch of the software. Students agree that they may be recorded by the software during the exam session, and that the course instructors or other appropriate individuals at Baylor University may have access to and may review such recording. Students further understand that if the results of a review support an allegation of academic dishonesty, the course work in question as well as any supporting materials may be submitted to the Honor Council for investigation and further action. If an inappropriate event unrelated to the test is accidentally recorded, students may request that the video be deleted by contacting the ITS Help Desk. TurnItIn Baylor University subscribes to TurnItIn, a web-based plagiarism detection/prevention service. Papers submitted to TurnItIn are compared to resources in the database. The results of the comparison (including hyperlinks to web pages or other papers with the same text) are then sent to the instructor. Students agree that by taking a course, all required papers, exams, class projects or other assignments submitted for credit may be submitted to turnitin.com or similar third parties to review and evaluate for originality and intellectual integrity. A description of the services, terms and conditions of use, and privacy policy of turnitin.com is available on its web site: https://www.turnitin.com. Understand that all work submitted to turnitin.com will be added to its database of papers. Further understand that if the results of such a review support an allegation of academic dishonesty, the course work in question as well as any supporting materials may be submitted to the Honor Council for investigation and further action. Syllabi Resources General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Getting Started Support Canvas Instructor Guide Student Guide Instructor Orientation Video Student Orientation Video On-Demand Video Guides Canvas FAQs Suggesting Improvements Mobile Apps LTI Integrations Canvas Release Notes Canvas Access Guidelines Kaltura Respondus Zoom Turnitin Bongo Learn All Other Software System Status Training Request Forms Canvas Training Request Form Demo Course Request Form Feature Request Form Organization Request Form Outside User Request Form Promotional Request Form Image Examples SI Leader Course Request Form Template Request Form Syllabi Resources News Canvas Login