Communications From the President - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to President Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search President About Renu Khator Boards and Committees Communications Leadership and Staff UH Home President Communications President About Renu Khator Boards and Committees Communications Fall Address Presidential Publications Leadership and Staff Communications From the President Update: $50 Million Gift, Accolades and Provost Search Congratulations and thank you on another successful academic year! Last week, we graduated nearly 6,000 students in multiple ceremonies thanks to you! These graduates are special because in order to graduate they had to climb over the COVID-19 mountain and deal with enormous unpredictability. Needless to say, they could not have made it to the finish line without your guiding hand. Once again, thank you for everything you do every day for our students and our university. May 20, 2022 Journey to the Top 50 Last year, we announced the University of Houston’s bold, new vision to become a Top 50 public university. We knew that achieving this goal would not be easy. No. It would challenge us to stretch to a higher level … to think in ways that we’ve never thought before – and that’s exactly why we made it our vision. March 29, 2022 Provost Search Committee Announcement I am pleased to announce that I am appointing a 16-member search committee co-chaired by Drs. Catherine Horn and Ramanan Krishnamoorti to begin our national search for the next Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs/Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost for the UH System/UH. The Search Committee will be assisted by SP&A Executive Search and will complete its work during the spring semester with the hope of filling the position by summer 2022. I thank the committee members for undertaking this very important task. February 2, 2022 Paula Myrick Short to Retire in August 2022 With mixed emotions, I announce that Paula Myrick Short, University of Houston System senior vice chancellor for academic affairs and University of Houston senior vice president for academic affairs and provost, has decided that she will retire, due to family health issues, in August 2022. January 26, 2022 Spring Update: Regular Classes to Resume Jan. 31 Thank you for your collective efforts in making the soft opening of the spring semester a success. The past few weeks have been uncertain at times, but you accepted the challenge with fortitude and made it work. January 25, 2022 See Archive University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies