skip to Main Navigation skip to Main Content skip to Footer Accessibility feedback NC State Home COVID-19 Updates Resources Campus Directory MyPack Portal Campus Map Libraries Campus Resources University Housing NC State Dining Bookstores Wolfline Buses Calendar Diversity Academic Resources Undergraduate Admissions Academic Departments WolfWare/Moodle Global Engagement Distance Education Academic Calendar Other Resources Student Services Center Cashier's Office Registration and Records Scholarships and Financial Aid Career Development Center NC State Help Desk Outreach and Engagement Giving NC State News Graduate School Gmail Access NC State Social Media NC State University Libraries Logo Navigation Search Find & Borrow Search Books & Media Articles Databases Journals Theses and Dissertations NC State Publications Special Collections Our Website Find Course Reserves Newspapers Patents & Trademarks Standards Tests & Measurements Textbooks Ebooks Government Information Borrow & Request Borrowing & Access Privileges Tripsaver Technology Lending Suggest a Purchase Distance Services Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Study & Learn Assignment Help Choose a Topic Cite Sources Evaluate Sources Find Articles Find a Book Ask Us All Assignment Help Workshops Data and Visualization Digital Media Digital Scholarship Makerspace Research Strategy Virtual & Augmented Reality All Workshops Spaces Reserve a Room Academic Success Center Quiet Study Graduate Student Spaces Explore Spaces Sensory Friendly Maps How Busy is the Hill Library? Technology Technology Lending Software Print & Copy Scanning Wireless Access Working off campus Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Research & Teaching Research Support Citation Management Grants & Funding Research Impact & Metrics Publishing and Copyright Data Management Open Research Faculty Spaces All Research Support Teaching Support Request an Instruction Session Copyright in the Classroom Course Reserves Library Instruction Programs Open Education Videos and Tutorials All Teaching Support Workshops Digital Scholarship Research Strategy Data and Visualization Peer Scholars All Workshops Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help Media & Making Digital Media Music & Audio Video Gaming Photography Scanning Virtual & Augmented Reality All Digital Media Makerspace 3D Printing 3D Scanning Cutting & Milling Electronics Textiles All Makerspace Workshops 3D Scanning Studio Orientation Digital Media Orientation Makerspace Orientation VR Studio Orientation All Digital Media Workshops All Makerspace Workshops All Virtual & Augmented Reality Workshops Spaces Hill Library Makerspace Innovation Studio VR Studio Digital Media Lab All Media & Making Spaces Help Ask Us Request a Technology Consultation Drop-In Help for Digital Media Data & Visualization Data & Visualization Finding Data Wrangling Data Analyzing Data Visualization Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Data Management Text & Data Mining All Data & Visualization Workshops Data & Visualization Workshops Digital Scholarship Workshops Research Strategy Workshops All Workshops Spaces Data Experience Lab (DXL) Dataspace Teaching & Visualization Lab Visualization Studio iPearl Immersion Theater Game Lab All Data & Visualization Spaces Help Get Data Science Help Data & Visualization Instruction Support About Contact Ask Us Staff Directory Subject Specialists Jobs Fellows Program Collections About the Collections Special Collections Chancellor's Faculty Excellence Program Memberships & Consortia Our Organization Mission & Vision Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Service Philosophy Fact Sheet Rules & Guidelines Annual Reports & Strategic Plans Performance Measures Honors & Awards News & Events News Events Exhibits Workshops Videos from the Libraries Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Hunt Library Map Hill Library Map How Busy is the Hill Library? Directions & Parking Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Campus Information Centers Get Involved Giving to the Libraries Friends of the Libraries Student Advisory Forum University Library Committee Academic Departmental Library Representatives Help Ask Us Request a Research Consultation Request a Technology Consultation Get Data Science Help FAQ Search Today's Hours Hours My Account Log Out Ask Us Chat Link Privacy Statement Data is created and collected each time you use certain Libraries services, technology, and this website. In accordance with NC State University’s Privacy Statement and consonant with the values described below, the Libraries stores and analyzes some of this data to continually improve and adapt our services and resources. Commitment to Privacy and Confidentiality The NC State University Libraries upholds the privacy, confidentiality, and intellectual freedom of our users as core values as described in the American Library Association’s Code of Ethics. The Libraries does not grant unauthorized access to or disclose any identifiable library record, as specified in NCSU RUL 02.61.02 and North Carolina General Statutes 125 § 18-19. Security Compliance The NC State University Libraries complies with federal, state, and institutional regulations regarding the security of personal user data and library records. Guidelines and procedures for securely storing and transferring sensitive data are determined based on NC State University’s Data Sensitivity Framework. Data Collection and Use Library Systems The NC State University Libraries uses and stores moderately sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (PII) for operations and services, such as checking out a book or laptop. Examples of this data are first and last name, email address/Unity ID, student ID, and university status and affiliation. De-identified library circulation records are securely stored for ongoing collection management and service improvement. We also collect and utilize data related to Libraries workshops, programs, and use of spaces, technology, and other services for the purpose of taking attendance, program evaluation, and tracking trends. We maintain the confidentiality of all the information that we receive. University Systems Many of the applications used for library operations retrieve personal data from systems that are maintained and secured by the university. As a contributing partner to the learning and research mission and goals of the university, the Libraries may share de-identified, generalized, and/or aggregate data with authorized entities for ongoing assessment and improvement. To assist with the assessment and purchasing of relevant software, the university uses the software package LabStats which tracks the use of applications on the library’s patron computers. Data collected within this system, such as Unity ID and average session time, is only available to authorized NC State University staff. Recorded Instruction & Workshops Libraries' instruction sessions and workshops may be recorded. Recordings in which it is possible to identify students are considered protected educational records and are subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). These recordings may be stored in University-approved video sharing platforms and shared only with session participants through secure Unity ID access. Sessions that do not contain personally identifiable information may be shared more broadly. Third-Party Services Certain collections, such as electronic journals and databases, are provided by third-party publishers and vendors that may collect PII and use it according to their respective policies. In addition, the Libraries uses the following third-party services on this website. Google Analytics The Libraries’ website uses Google Analytics to capture and analyze web statistics. The information gathered is used to improve web services for site users. Google Analytics uses a browser cookie to gather and process data related to your browsing behavior on library websites. Data typically collected include network location; hostname; web pages requested; referring web page; browser used; screen resolution; date and time. No personal information is stored within cookies. If you choose, you may opt out by turning off cookies in your browser preferences. For more information on Google Analytics, visit www.google.com/analytics. AddEvent The “Add to Calendar” button for Libraries events, programs, and workshops is provided by a third-party vendor called AddEvent. AddEvent uses browser cookies and Pixel Tags and collects personal data that includes information such as IP address. For more information, visit https://www.addevent.com/terms and https://www.addevent.com/privacy. Occuspace The Libraries uses the product Occuspace to report how many people are in certain spaces throughout the day. This allows users to assess the approximate availability of seating in those spaces. The Occuspace “beacon” uses Bluetooth and WiFi technology to analyze radio frequency signal data in the area from any electronic device (e.g., laptop, phone, Fitbit, etc.) that has Bluetooth or WiFi turned on. Data collected includes MAC address, signal strength indicator, and time stamp. The MAC address is encrypted on the Occuspace beacon before being irreversibly hashed. Hashed data is then sent to Occuspace servers and deleted from the beacon. No PII is collected or transmitted in this process. If you do not want the Occuspace beacon to observe your electronic device, you can turn off your device’s Bluetooth and WiFi. For more information, visit https://occuspace.io/public/assets/occuPrivacyPolicy.pdf. Questions If you have questions about library data privacy, please contact Rob Rucker at rrrucker@ncsu.edu or 919-513-3657. NC State University's Office of Information Technology recommends the use of these sound password practices to protect your data. Top of page Contact D. H. Hill Jr. Library 2 Broughton Drive Campus Box 7111 Raleigh, NC 27695-7111 (919) 515-3364 James B. Hunt Jr. Library 1070 Partners Way Campus Box 7132 Raleigh, NC 27606-7132 (919) 515-7110 Libraries Administration (919) 515-7188 NC State University Libraries D. H. Hill Jr. Library James B. Hunt Jr. Library Design Library Natural Resources Library Veterinary Medicine Library Copyright Privacy Statement Accessibility at the Libraries Accessibility at NC State University Staff Confluence Login Staff Drupal Login Follow the Libraries Facebook Instagram Twitter Snapchat LinkedIn Vimeo YouTube Twitch Flickr Libraries' news ×