COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: International Business, Major MajorInternational Business All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Management The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in international business from Wichita State's Barton School of Business combines its AACSB-accredited program with the unmatched opportunities for applied learning and internships found in Kansas' largest city. You'll be eligible to compete for some of the state's largest business scholarships. And you can build a professional resume and make the connections that lead to your dream career. Learn how international business is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application As part of the Barton International Group (B.I.G.), WSU business students have the opportunity to travel abroad to research business trends and practices. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Barton School of Business, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Grad student's career takes flight with Spirit internship As a Shocker, you have access to a huge list of employers that provide internship opportunities for students looking to get hands-on job experience. Business grad Anushiya Shiley Gomes returned to WSU to earn her master's, and in the process received a coveted internship at Spirit AeroSystems, one of Wichita's top employers. Her time in the classroom gave her the background to succeed at Spirit. Curriculum The international business program is multidisciplinary. In addition to core business courses, you'll also study political science, language and culture. You'll participate in a study-abroad experience in the Asia-Pacific, Europe or Latin America. And you'll complete a minor in one or two business disciplines. View the curriculum Careers An international business degree from Wichita State will prepare you for high-paying careers with multinational companies, banks, joint venture operations, import-export firms, trading companies, federal government and state trade agencies and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Accounting Accounting (Minor) Economics Economics (Minor) International Business (Minor) Supply Chain Management (Minor) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©