Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Who We Are Departments & Areas Our Strategic Future About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Departments & Areas AAA Departments & Areas The Division of Student Affairs is here to support your academic endeavors through our dedicated approach to providing exceptional programs, facilities and services. Our commitment to ensuring quality personal, professional and educational support will help you get from first-year orientation to walking across the Commencement stage. Butler Center for Service & Leadership With a wide range of volunteer and advocacy based service and leadership opportunities, the Butler Center offers programs and initiatives for the UM community. Learn More Camner Center for Academic Resources Find a multitude of resources for every constituent of the University of Miami community to help manage success and advance potential. Learn More Chaplains Association Spirituality is an important part of many students’ lives, and religious centers located on or near campus provide opportunities for services and programs. Learn More Commencement The University of Miami celebrates our graduates and their many accomplishments during Commencement. Learn More Communications & Marketing Student Affairs Communications & Marketing advances the mission of the Division of Student Affairs through a variety of creative communications, marketing, and market research projects. Counseling Center Students can discover their goals for personal and emotional development with the guidance of passionate, caring professionals at the Counseling Center. Learn More Dean of Students Office Understanding how to make responsible decisions with the help of the Dean of Students Office’s programs and resources allows students to flourish during their time at the University. Learn More Greek Life Future leaders, life-long friendships, and community change find their roots at the University of Miami thanks to the opportunities Greek Life provides to lead and serve. Learn More Housing & Residential Life Living on campus serves as a great opportunity for students to interact with peers, faculty and staff, develop their social, academic and personal skills and enjoy University life at its fullest. Learn More LGBTQ Student Center The LGBTQ Student Center promotes a university community where people of all genders, orientations and expressions feel welcome, with a focus on education, programming and advocacy. Learn More Multicultural Student Affairs Multicultural Student Affairs challenges and supports ethnically diverse students in their development. From cultural celebration to dialogues across difference, MSA provides a motivating and welcoming environment for all. Learn More Student Life Student Life oversees the Butler Center, LGBTQ Student Center, Multicultural Student Affairs, Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement and Student Activities & Student Organizations which all contribute to connecting students. Office of the Vice President The Office of the Vice President works with the Division of Student Affairs to develop and encourage student success. Learn More Ombudsperson The Ombudsperson and troubleshooters across campus connect students and families to resources and help you to resolve concerns. Learn More Orientation & Commuter Student Involvement Connecting incoming students to resources, empowering commuter and transfer students to achieve their goals, and developing student leaders as facilitators helps make college transition for students easier. Learn More Rathskeller Since 1973, the Rathskeller has been a popular meeting place for students and faculty to enjoy a quality, casual dining experience with signature menu items, live music and watch parties. Learn More Sandler Center for Alcohol & Other Drug Education The Sandler Center encourages students to lead healthy lifestyles, empowering them with the education to thrive and contribute to a safer campus community. Learn More Student Center Complex From events and meetings to retail and dining, the Student Center Complex functions as the hub of student life for studying, socializing, and campus involvement. Learn More Student Health Service Located in The Lennar Foundation Medical Center, Student Health Service provides easy access to health care for students, including immunization and clinical services. Learn More Student Activities & Student Organizations With over 300 student organizations and a variety of programs and activities, Student Activities and Student Organizations help students engage and connect with one another. Learn More Student Media Award-winning, student-run media offers opportunities for students to explore their passions and kick-start their careers in broadcasting, journalism, photography and more. Learn More Wellness & Recreation Wellness & Recreation promotes a balance of healthy living through multiple dimensions of wellness including physical, intellectual, emotional, and occupational. Learn More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices