Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Positions Available J. D. Tamarkin Assistant Professorship One three-year non-tenured non-renewable appointment, beginning July 1, 2021 or January 1, 2022. The teaching load is one course one semester, and two courses the other semester and consists of courses of more than routine interest. Candidates are required to have received a Ph.D. degree or equivalent by the start of their appointment, and they may have up to three years of prior academic and/or postdoctoral research experience. Applicants should have strong research potential, a commitment to teaching. Field of research should be consonant with the current research interests of the department. For full consideration, applicants must submit a curriculum vitae, an AMS Standard Cover Sheet, a statement addressing diversity and inclusion, and at least three letters of recommendation primarily focused on research, and one letter addressing teaching (possibly as part of a research letter). Applications will be reviewed upon receipt and until the position is filled. In addition, applicants are required to identify a Brown faculty member with similar research interests. Please submit all application materials on line at http://www.mathjobs.org. Email inquiries should be addressed to [email protected]. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat