Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Faculty CU Boulder Today Genetic mutations can be benign or cancerous—new identification method could lead to better treatments Finding one cancer-driving mutation in a tumor is like finding a needle in a stack of needles, but the use of public DNA databases could lead to more targeted cancer treatments. CU computer scientist Ryan Layer shares on The Conversation. Read more Can we avert the next mass shooting? Yes, and here’s how CU Boulder researcher Beverly Kingston discusses the recent uptick in school shootings, perpetrator indicators and behaviors, what we can do to stop such violence in schools and public spaces, and more. Read more Campus leadership announces operating model updates Provost Russell Moore and Chief Operating Officer Patrick O’Rourke announced a number of updates to the campus operating model, which include work modality standards, academic instruction guidance, COVID-19-related requirements and other topics. Read more Protestants and the pill: How US Christians helped make birth control mainstream Conservative Christians have cheered restrictions on some birth control. But many decades ago, Christian leaders’ support helped contraceptives become acceptable in the first place. CU expert Samira Mehta shares on The Conversation. Read more New budget model approved by leadership with implementation to begin July 1 Executive sponsors have approved a new budget model that includes support for student retention; diversity, equity and inclusion goals; and more. Read more Join CU Night at the Rockies Aug. 12 Cheer on the Rockies as they take on the Arizona Diamondbacks. In addition to a seat at Coors Field, your ticket includes a collector’s T-shirt and a $2 donation to student scholarships. Before the game, join for a free pre-game reception at the alumni-owned Blake Street Tavern for appetizers, giveaways and more. Read more Read more at CU Boulder Today Can't find what you're looking for? The Buff Info Team can help answer questions on a variety of topics related to CU Boulder and connect you with the right resources. Live Chat 303-492-INFO (4636) Send Us a Question Faculty Resources Faculty Affairs The office that coordinates a wide range of CU Boulder faculty support, including a comprehensive A-to-Z listing of resources. Boulder Faculty Assembly The representative body of the faculty, empowered to set academic policy and advise administration. University Libraries A vast collection of academic resources, engaging learning experiences and seamless services. More Research Directory Faculty Ombuds MyCUInfo Office 365 Campus VPN Google Collaboration Tools Email Lists Canvas OIT Services Have a question or comment? Faculty Quick Links Office of the Provost Engage with leadership and services related to the university's academic program, budget, research, and faculty matters. Strategic Initiatives Converging to build an environment of constant innovation and resource alignment that will accelerate our positive impact on the world. Committees & Reports Check out academic affairs-related initiatives and committees, including available overviews, charges, members, timelines and updates. Meeting Agendas & Minutes See what's ahead and what's happening as faculty-related groups convene and progress. Calendars Lectures and Presentations Campus Events Colloquium/Seminar Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page