COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News May 09, 2022studentsWSU FoundationGrowing Innovation and ResearchInnovationCollege of EngineeringEntrepreneurship Wichita State entrepreneurs win Women for Women award By Strategic Communications Five Wichita State University women were honored with the Women for Women Innovation Award for spring 2022. The Women for Women's Innovation Fund is awarded to Wichita State University students to support innovative ideas that show promise of commercialization. The Women for Women fund was established in 2020 with contributions to the WSU Foundation to support women leaders and entrepreneurs in moving their ideas forward by providing recipients a boost to “Shock the World.” Sierra Bonn: Let’s Go Full STEAM Ahead! Sierra is a senior in engineering. She said the inspiration for starting Let’s Go Full STEAM Ahead! "was an interaction I had with a fifth-grader who wanted to know if she could be an engineer like I am. Mia showed me what an impact seeing someone like yourself in a field can make. That's the impact of Let's Go Full STEAM Ahead!” Working to address the underrepresentation of women in STEAM fields, Let’s Go Full STEAM Ahead! highlights the women who are in the STEAM field and makes their stories accessible to youth of all ages. Carly Overacker: Everwhen After being tasked with a class assignment to find a need within the community, Carly discovered that many of WSU students, faculty, staff and visitors were frustrated by the time and gas it cost them to find a parking spot. This pain point led her to start Everwhen. Carly, a sophomore in engineering, said: “Everwhen provides users with an efficient way to find a parking space with our app and lot owners with a new way to manage their parking lots. Our software utilizes machine learning and is integrated with existing camera systems for a low cost.” Brittany Wojciechowski, Amulya Lomte and Maria Jose Carrillo Munoz: Customizable and Sustainable Breast Prosthesis “More 100,000 women undergo a mastectomy each year in the United Sates without many post-surgery options except for invasive breast reconstruction or generic breast prosthesis.” Hoping to provide those women with more options, Brittany Wojciechowski, Amulya Lomte and Maria Jose Carrillo Munoz began working on an alternative option. The team is working on developing a customizable and biodegradable 3D-printed breast prosthesis. Brittany, Amulya and Maria are all graduate students in the College of Engineering. Wichita State's College of Engineering Since 1928, Wichita State's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. From hands-on research using the latest technology to our location in Kansas' center of industry — with its virtually unlimited jobs, applied learning and professional connections — Shocker engineering students have everything they need to make their dream careers a reality. Learn more about the College of Engineering Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Talent Pipeline NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©