Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Degree ProgramsMaster of Public AffairsGraduate Portfolio ProgramsPortfolio Program in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Portfolio Program in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship Portfolio Program in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship The Portfolio in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship is a certification program that provides students with cross-disciplinary theoretical and practical training related to the management and governance of arts and cultural organizations, and/or the business dimensions of an entrepreneurial artistic career. Further goals are to promote greater interaction among students, faculty, and others working in areas related to these fields; provide increased visibility and offerings in the field on campus, and; promote interaction between Austin’s cultural community and UT-Austin students, faculty, and others with an interest in arts and cultural management and entrepreneurship. The Portfolio is jointly sponsored by the College of Fine Arts and the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, and engages faculty from across the university. Program Requirements The Portfolio combines coursework and exposure to conceptual underpinnings of the field with practical skills and “hands-on” experience. Toward that end, students are required to complete the following four requirements: Completion of four courses (12 credit hours) from a list of approved courses, including a minimum of one “core course.” At least two courses must be outside the student’s home department (cross-listed courses count as outside the home department). Completion of 40 hours of volunteer or paid work at a cultural institution, or in a culture-related program at another type of institution (e.g., school, hospital, etc.). Internships may be counted toward this requirement. Attendance at one skills-based training session a year. Participation in an annual culminating event of student presentations. Upon graduation, the student's transcript will reflect certification that the student has completed the graduate portfolio in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship. Eligibility and Application Process The Portfolio in Arts and Cultural Management and Entrepreneurship is open to all University of Texas students currently enrolled in a master’s or doctoral level degree in good standing in their departments. Applicants must have a minimum GPA of 3.0 and permission of their graduate adviser. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Download the application form. Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program List of Approved Courses LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022