Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Campus Environment> Health, Safety and Welfare> University Regulation on Face Coverings - Version 3 University Regulation on Face Coverings - Interim Version 3 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Version 2 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG05.20.11 Title University Regulation on Face Coverings Category Campus Environment Sub-category Health, Safety and Welfare Authority Chancellor History First issued: July 1, 2020; updated October 13, 2020; updated January 11, 2021; updated January 24, 2022. Contact Director, Office of Environmental Health and Safety, 211 South Jarvis Street, Suite 102, Mailstop 207, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC 27858; (252) 328-6166 Related Policies RUL05.20.04 Eye and Face Protection REG05.20.06 Respiratory Protection REG05.20.12 University Regulation on Employee Mitigation of COVID-19 - Interim REG05.20.13 University Regulation on Contact Tracing – Interim REG05.10.02 Environmental Health and Safety Requirements for Events REG05.10.01 Safety Hazard Investigation UNC 300.8.3[R] Regulation on Institutional Occupational Safety and Health Programs Additional References President Roper June 18, 2020 Face Covering Memo UNC System Office Return to On-Site Work Guidance (v.3.0): Human Resources Professionals and Administrators UNC System Office Return to On-Site Work Guidance (v.3.0) - Faculty and Staff NC Office of State Human Resources Safety Guidance for State Employees Return Website CDC: Your Guide to Masks NCDHHS: Face Coverings and Masks US Department of Labor Occupational Health and Safety Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 1. Reason for this Regulation East Carolina University is committed to promoting the health and safety of all students, staff, and faculty, as well as guests and visitors to our campus. Ongoing scientific studies demonstrate that consistent wearing of face coverings when in public spaces is an effective strategy for mitigating the spread of COVID-19. Face covering protocols must comply with requirements of current Executive Orders and other applicable mandates. 2. Where and to whom does this Regulation apply? 2.1 This regulation applies to all ECU employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors: 2.1.1 onsite at any University location, including, but not limited to, ECU’s Greenville campuses, the Coastal Studies Institute, and the School of Dental Medicine’s Service Learning Centers that are located throughout North Carolina; and/or 2.1.2 who use University Transportation Services as specified below in Section 3.1.5. 3. What am I required to do? 3.1 Except as specified in Section 3.2 (Exceptions), below, you are required to wear a Face Covering that meets the minimum requirements specified in Article 4, below, (“Face Covering”) as follows: 3.1.1 University Buildings Except as otherwise specified in Section 3.2, Face Coverings that meet the minimum criteria listed must be worn by all employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors  while inside a University building. This includes all in-person classroom settings, public or communal work areas, libraries, dining settings and residence hall common areas. 3.1.2 Residence Halls and Off Campus Housing Students in ECU Housing (whether they live in an on-campus Residence Hall or are assigned to off campus housing (such as an apartment complex) must wear a Face Covering while in lobbies, elevators, and other common areas. 3.1.3 Employee Workspaces University Employees must wear a Face Covering in common workspaces or when other people are present in the employee’s otherwise private workspace. 3.1.4 Outdoor Spaces Face Coverings must be worn by all employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors while outdoors on University property where appropriate physical distancing cannot be maintained. This includes areas like the Mall, the North Recreational Complex, and other outdoor gathering spaces. NOTE: Wearing a Face Covering is not a substitute for appropriate physical distancing. All members of the University community should maintain appropriate physical distancing whenever feasible. 3.1.5 University Transportation Face Coverings must be worn by all employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors  while using University transportation (e.g., Student Transit) and other forms of public transportation serving the campus (e.g., GREAT Buses). 3.1.6 As required by Applicable Authority. Face Coverings must be worn by all employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors wherever required by applicable authority, such as, for example, where directed by the Pitt County Health Department Director or pursuant to an Executive Order. While the University will make every reasonable effort to update this Regulation in response to changes, individuals are solely and personally responsible for familiarizing themselves and complying with applicable authority concerning the use of Face Coverings. 3.1.7 University Medical Facilities ECU Physicians, the ECU School of Dental Medicine, and the School of Allied Health Sciences may adopt standards for the use of Face Coverings in clinical care settings, such as medical and dental clinics. 3.1.8 Vehicles – Face Coverings must be worn by all employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors when inside State-owned vehicles unless you are the sole occupant. 3.2 Exceptions. A Face Covering is not required in the following limited circumstances: 3.2.1 An individual who has a medical or behavioral condition (including, but not limited to, any person who has trouble breathing, or is unconscious or incapacitated, or is otherwise unable to put on or remove the Face Covering without assistance) that prevents them from safely wearing a Face Covering or a Face Shield (where permitted for use by faculty and other instructional employees pursuant to Section 3.2.7). In such instances, individuals shall adopt additional physical distancing measures. 3.2.2 An individual who needs medical attention or services requiring temporary removal of the Face Covering. 3.2.3 When exercising outdoors and greater than six (6) feet away from anyone who does not reside in your household. Collegiate athletes shall follow NCAA, AAC and ECU Athletics rules and policies. 3.2.4 While actively eating or drinking at a dining facility on university property. Compliance with appropriate physical distancing must still be observed. 3.2.5 An individual is under two (2) years of age. 3.2.6 An individual is seeking to communicate with someone who is hearing-impaired in a way that requires the mouth to be visible. In this situation, consider using a mask with a clear panel. 3.2.7 An ECU faculty member or other instructional employee (such as a graduate assistant) who is actively teaching in a face-to-face educational setting (such as in a classroom); provided, however, said faculty member or instructional employee shall wear a face shield while actively teaching and a Face Covering as required by this Regulation at all other times. Face shields should wrap around the sides of the wearer’s face and extend below the chin. 3.2.8 An individual is the sole occupant of a State-owned vehicle or when operating their personal vehicle. 3.2.9 An individual is temporarily removing his or her Face Covering to secure medical services or for identification purposes. 3.2.10 Employees are alone in their offices or personal spaces with the door closed. 3.2.11 Students in ECU Housing while in their assigned room with the door closed. 3.2.12 Such other limited exceptions as may be expressly approved by the Chancellor in consultation with the ECU COVID Coordination Committee. 3.2.13 ECU employees and students may seek alternative accommodations to wearing a Face Covering through ECU’s ADA Coordinator (Employees) or Disability Support Services (Students). If a face covering exception is approved, the individual should receive appropriate documentation and be prepared to produce it as needed. 3.3 Disposal and Cleaning All employees, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors should familiarize themselves with the appropriate handling, cleaning  and disposal of their Face Coverings. 3.3.1 Wash hands or use hand sanitizer before putting on face covering. Be careful not to touch eyes, nose, and mouth when removing the face covering and wash hands or use hand sanitizer immediately after removing. 3.3.2 If the face coverings are not visibly soiled, torn, or saturated, they may be stored between uses throughout the day in a clean, sealable paper bag or breathable container. Carefully fold face coverings so that the outer surface is held inward against itself. 3.3.3 Cloth face coverings should be properly laundered regularly with standard clothing detergent. Cloth face coverings should be replaced immediately if they are soiled, damaged (e.g., ripped, punctured), or visibly contaminated. Damaged face coverings should be discarded. 3.3.4 Disposable masks should be discarded if they are soiled, damaged (e.g., stretched ear loops, torn or punctured material), or difficult to breathe through. 4. Face Covering Minimum Standards 4.1 "Face Covering" means a: 4.1.1 Covering of the nose and mouth that is secured to the head with ties, straps, or loops over the ears or is simply wrapped around the lower face. The user must make sure the face covering provides a good fit (i.e., fitting snugly against the face without any gaps along the edges or around the nose and covers the nose and mouth at all times when in use). A mask with a metal strip along the top of the mask can help insure a proper fit. A Face Covering can be made of a variety of synthetic and natural fabrics. Face Coverings require 2 or more layers of breathable fabric. This standard can be met by wearing a cloth or disposable face covering with two or more layers. The multi-layered, disposable mask is sometimes referred to as a surgical mask or medical procedure mask. Additional protection can be provided by wearing one disposable mask underneath a cloth mask. Do not wear two disposable masks. Make sure you can see and breathe easily. Face Coverings with an exhalation valve or vent should not be used. A Face Covering may be factory-made, sewn by hand, or can be improvised from household items such as scarfs, bandanas, t-shirts, sweatshirts, or towels. These Face Coverings are not intended for use by healthcare providers in the care of patients The university maintains an inventory of multi-layered, well-fitting, and high-quality cloth or disposable face coverings that are available for use by faculty, staff, students, and visitors. 4.1.2 Based on recommendation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, face shields are no longer considered to meet the requirements for Face Coverings. 4.1.3 The CDC guidelines state that specially labeled “surgical” N95 respirators — a special subtype of N95 respirators that provide additional protection against hazards present during medical procedures, such as blood splatter — should be reserved for use by healthcare personnel. They are not recommended for general public use or use in public settings. However, if worn, they would meet the minimum standards for Face Coverings in this Regulation but may be subject to additional requirements, including but not limited to, REG05.20.06 Respiratory Protection. N95 respirators are approved by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health ("NIOSH") . 5. Relation to Governmental Policies  All students, faculty, staff, contractors, and visitors are expected to know and comply with all recommendations and requirements of the state and municipal authorities in locations where they study, live, or work (e.g., directives of the State of North Carolina, Pitt County, and the City of Greenville and other local municipalities). 6. Duration of Regulation This Regulation will remain in effect indefinitely until withdrawn or modified by the Chancellor as guided by appropriate public health information and officials. 7. Compliance and Enforcement 7.1 Compliance with this Regulation is mandatory. The wearing of a Face Covering as required by this Regulation is not subject to individual employee or student discretion 7.1.1. For students, compliance with this Regulation is a condition of continued enrollment. Failure to comply with this policy may result in administrative action, including, but not limited to, disciplinary action under the Student Code of Conduct, restriction on access to, or use of, University facilities, removal from University housing, disenrollment from one or more in-person courses, transition to remote-only instruction and/or other interventions necessary to effect compliance and protect the well-being of the campus community. 7.1.2. For employees, compliance with this Regulation is a condition of continued employment. In the case of willful failure to comply with the provisions of this policy and/or repeated violations, the University may pursue additional disciplinary actions in accordance with applicable University policies. 7.2 If an individual refuses to wear a Face Covering where required by this Regulation, is unable to produce the appropriate documentation for an approved exception, and enters or refuses to leave the premises, law enforcement personnel may enforce North Carolina trespassing laws and any other laws that individual may violate. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier