Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Plan Your Visit Plan Your Visit Chapter Menu Top Anchor Jump to… Expand Navigation Visiting Main Campus Tours and Information Sessions Driving Taxi and Ride Share Public Transportation and Shuttles Air Travel Visit the Law Center & School of Continuing Studies Visiting Main Campus Anchor Visiting Main Campus Engage in a wide variety of activities while visiting Georgetown, both on campus and in Washington, DC. Whether you enjoy museums, the arts, sports or live performances, there is a never-ending number of things to do in one of the most exciting cities in the world. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Campus Map Events at Georgetown Athletics Calendar Worship Services DC Visitors’ Guide Back to Top Tours and Information Sessions Anchor Tours and Information Sessions We encourage you to visit our campus in person and participate in our tours and information sessions. We can arrange for group visits for those interested in learning more about the undergraduate and graduate experience. If you can’t make it to campus, take a virtual tour or check out admissions events happening in your area! Virtual and In-Person Visits Graduate Information Sessions Virtual Tour Georgetown In Your Area Back to Top Driving Anchor Driving Georgetown University’s Main Campus is located at 3700 O St., N.W., Washington, DC, with the Georgetown University Medical Center located close by at 4000 Reservoir Road, NW. Driving directions below are for the Main Campus garage off of Canal St. NW. Street parking is available but limited and restricted. From Baltimore and Points North Follow I-95 South and exit onto 495 West (Capital Beltway). Continue on 495 to George Washington Memorial Parkway. Follow the parkway toward Washington, DC and exit onto Key Bridge. Cross Key Bridge and turn left onto M Street. Go through one light and turn right into Georgetown University. Follow signs to visitor parking. From Richmond and Points South Follow I-95 North to 395 to Route 27 (Washington Boulevard). Once on Route 27, carefully watch for signs that lead you through Rosslyn to the Key Bridge. Follow the signs and cross Key Bridge, then turn left onto M Street. Go through one light and turn right into Georgetown University. Follow signs to visitor parking. From Pittsburgh and Points West Follow the Pennsylvania Turnpike East to Exit 12 (Breezewood). Follow I-70 South to Frederick, where 270 South begins and continue on 270 South toward Washington, DC. When 270 South intersects with 495 (Capital Beltway), keep right and follow 495 toward Northern Virginia. Continue on 495 to George Washington Memorial Parkway. Follow the parkway toward Washington and exit onto Key Bridge. Cross Key Bridge and turn left onto M Street. Go through one light and turn right into Georgetown University. Follow signs to visitor parking. Parking on Campus Back to Top Taxi and Ride Share Anchor Taxi and Ride Share To direct your driver to campus, tell the person your destination is Georgetown University or 3700 O St. NW. Expect taxi fares to be at least: $15 from Reagan National Airport $60 from Dulles International Airport $95 from Baltimore Washington International Airport Back to Top Public Transportation and Shuttles Anchor Public Transportation and Shuttles Several public buses service Georgetown, Medstar Georgetown University Hospital and the Georgetown neighborhood: The G2 bus stops at the university main gates at 37th & O Streets, NW and connects to the Dupont Circle metro station (Red Line). The D6 bus stops at the entrance to Medstar Georgetown University Hospital and north entrance of Georgetown University along Reservoir Road. The D6 also connects to the Dupont Circle and Farragut North metro stations (Red Line) as well as Farragut West (Blue, Orange, and Silver Lines) and Metro Center (Red, Blue, Orange and Silver Lines). Other buses that stop close to Georgetown University include: D2 bus – stops in Georgetown at 35th Street & Reservoir Road NW and connects with Glover Park and the Dupont Circle metro station (Red Line). 38B bus – stops in Georgetown at M Street & 34th Street NW and connects with Rosslyn, Foggy Bottom and Farragut West metro stations (Blue, Orange, and Silver lines) and Farragut North metro station (Red Line). 30s series buses (30N, 30S, 31, 33) – stops along Wisconsin Ave. in Georgetown at P Street and N Street NW, and connects with Friendship Heights and Tenleytown-AU metro stations (Red Line), as well as Foggy Bottom and Farragut West metro stations (Blue, Orange, and Silver Lines). Metrorail While there is not a Metrorail station in Georgetown, the free university GUTS shuttles connect Georgetown University with the Dupont Circle metro station (Red Line) via the Dupont Circle route and the Rosslyn metro station (Blue, Orange, and Silver Lines) via the Rosslyn route. Several Metro buses also connect with these and other Metro stations close to Georgetown. DC Circulator The DC Circulator is another public bus that serves the Georgetown neighborhood close to the university. The Dupont-Georgetown-Rosslyn route stops in Georgetown at 34th & M Street, NW and connects with the Dupont Circle metro station (Red Line) and Rosslyn metro station (Blue, Orange, and Silver Lines). The Georgetown-Union Station route stops in Georgetown at Wisconsin Ave. & N Street NW and at Wisconsin Ave. & M Street NW. This route also connects with Downtown DC, the Georgetown Downtown campus and Union Station. Free Shuttle (GUTS) Metro Trip Planner Back to Top Air Travel Anchor Air Travel Three airports service the DC area: Baltimore Washington International Airport (BWI) Dulles International Airport Reagan National Airport Rental cars and taxi/ride-share service are available at all airports. Public Transportation from BWI You can take a shuttle bus from the airport to the MARC train station. The ride to Union Station will cost $5. Amtrak trains travel frequently from BWI to Union Station. MARC trains run Monday through Friday. Please visit the website for train schedules. Take the B30 Express Metrobus to Greenbelt Metro station and arrive at Rosslyn station by subway. The bus costs $3. From Rosslyn, take a taxi or the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle (GUTS) bus to the university. Please note that the GUTS bus does not run on Saturday mornings or on Sunday. Public Transportation from Reagan In the airport terminal, look for signs indicating the direction to the MetroRail. Take the blue line Metro to Rosslyn. Get off at Rosslyn, go to the top of the escalator stairs, make a U-turn and walk out to the street. Turn to your left and walk up the sidewalk until you are at the corner of 19th and Moore Streets. You will see a blue bus stop sign that says GU transportation shuttle (GUTS). Wait for the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle (GUTS) bus. The shuttle will give you a free ride to the university and will let you off in the heart of campus at the Leavey Center. Please note that the GUTS bus does not run on Saturday mornings or on Sunday. Back to Top Visit the Law Center & School of Continuing Studies Anchor Visit the Law Center & School of Continuing Studies Law Center School of Continuing Studies Back to Top Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog