Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Instruction and Curriculum Leadership About Programs Students Faculty News Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact ICL Programs Undergraduate Majors and Minors Undergraduate DegreesABA Undergrad MinorK-12 Education Undergrad MinorYouth Development Undergrad Major Applied Behavior Analysis ABA MS and EdDABA Undergrad Minor Early Childhood Elementary Education Instruction and Curriculum Instructional Design & Technology Literacy School Library Specialist Secondary Education Special Education Graduate Certificates Urban Education IDT Literacy Leadership & Coaching Autism Studies School Library Information Specialist STEM Teacher Leadership Special Education Comprehensive Program Rankings Take Action ICL Degrees Apply Now ICL Advising Contact Us Home ICL Programs School Library Information Specialist Graduate Certificate School Library Information Specialist Graduate Certificate The program of study for a graduate certificate for School Library Information Specialist (SLIS) is offered 100% online. The purpose of the Graduate Certificate for SLIS is to provide practical training to individuals who are presently teaching or are interested in obtaining teacher licensure with a specialization as a School Library Information Specialist. Program Admission Students wanting to earn the Graduate Certificate for School Library Information Specialists must have an earned Master's degree and apply to be accepted in this graduate certificate program. Applicants must also hold a current teaching license or be in the process of obtaining teacher licensure. The courses may be completed as part of a degree program with the SLIS program coordinator and graduate advisor's approval. To be admitted students should apply to the Graduate School as a Master's Degree seeking applicant. Under 'Planned Course of Study' the student should select 'School Library Info Specialists CERT'. Program Requirements A total of twenty-one (21) credit hours are required to complete this program. 1. ICL 7730 - Foundations of Librarianship, 3 credits 2. ICL 7731 - Introduction to Bibliography, 3 credits 3. ICL 7301 - Literature in the PreK-12 School, 3 credits 4. ICL 7132 - Cataloguing and Classification, 3 credits 5. ICL 7133 - School Library Administration, 3 credits 6. ICL 7134 - Internet in the School Library, 3 credits 7. ICL 7800 - Advanced Clinical Practicum for SLIS, 3-6 credits Course Plan Course Rotation Graduation Requirements 1. The student must complete all seven required courses with a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.25 or higher, for a total of 21 credit hours. 2. In the semester of the advanced clinical practicum, the student must submit a Graduate Certificate Candidacy form to the COE Graduate Analyst in Ball Hall 215 (3798 Walker Ave., Memphis, TN 38152) by the deadline specified by the Graduate School. Contact Us Graduate Office: 901-678-4861 icl-graduate-studies@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.