Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Space Supporting the future of the space industry Skip to Section Reaching New Horizons in Space Exploration Studies Space exploration impacts our daily life — from technology advancement to medical research to scientific discoveries. Two of the astronauts who launched into space are UCF alumni: Nicole Stott ’92MS and the late Fernando “Frank” Caldeiro ’95MS. For over 50 years, the university has played a big role in educating future engineers, administrators and space explorers — something we will continue over the next 50 years and more. At the Forefront of Space Exploration Space study at UCF involves exploring the big questions and the unknowns about our planetary systems, including Earth’s tiny part in it. Like the late legendary physicist, Stephen Hawking, our researchers are probing the cosmos to explain its greatest mysteries. UCF’s Stephen W. Hawking Center for Microgravity Research and Education — the first American research center to bear his name — builds on Hawking’s groundbreaking discoveries. Hawking’s family chose the university because of our shared passion for science and the next generation of students. The center builds on his groundbreaking discoveries about how the universe formed and fulfills his wishes to advance microgravity research. It will also explore ways of making space travel safer and inhabiting Mars or the Moon. America’s Destination for Space Science Kennedy Space Center (KSC), the country’s gateway to the universe, is only 35 miles away from UCF’s main campus. Here, faculty and students have the opportunity to partake in cutting-edge efforts. In fact, UCF has had more interns than any other university at KSC. The opportunity provides students with on-the-job training, soft-skills development, and involvement in research. Some go on to convert their internships into jobs after graduation. As students look to the stars and see endless possibilities, they’re reminded how the discoveries made today and tomorrow impact future generations to come. Taking Space Research Above and Beyond Founded in 1963 with the mission to provide talent for Central Florida and the growing U.S. space program, UCF has been making an impact on our state, our nation — and outer space — ever since. The Florida Space Institute, based at UCF, is made up of researchers and educators from UCF in partnership with those at other State University System of Florida institutions. Many of these researchers are tied to major space missions exploring Pluto, Saturn, the Kuiper Belt, Mars, the moon, comets, asteroids, Jupiter and exoplanets. UCF faculty are part of several NASA missions, including OSIRIS-REx and New Horizons. But our faculty aren’t the only ones doing research in space. UCF alumni have also gone on to take giant leaps in the space industry with companies such as NASA, Boeing, Lockheed, SpaceX and Blue Origin. 8 Experiments sent to space since 2019 aboard Blue Origin, SpaceX and Virgin Galactic rockets 674 NASA projects with UCF involvement as of Dec. 2021 $193.5 Million in NASA awards since 1991 as of Dec. 2021 29% Kennedy Space Center employees are UCF alumni 17 UCF researchers have asteroids named after them in recognition of their work. UCF-1.01 The planet UCF researchers discovered and named in 2012 (Photo by Bill Stafford) Alumni Spotlight: Nicole Stott ’92 Two space shuttle missions. A three-month stay on the International Space Station. The 10th woman to perform a spacewalk. Nicole Stott ’92 broke barriers during her time as an astronaut. From her start as an operations engineer at Kennedy Space Center, she held different positions before achieving what once seemed like a far-fetched idea: becoming an astronaut. After her last mission, Stott led several groups at NASA before stepping aside to try something new: Inspiring students to blend art with science. While sharing her love of both subjects, she spreads a motivational message that “this is our planet, and we need to take care of it.” Learn about how she soared to new heights. UCF’s relationship with NASA is really providing a reservoir of scientific talent that enables the goals of our space program. That kind of talent is not found in most universities in the country.” — Dan Britt, Pegasus Professor Reputation for Excellence UCF’s reputation opens the doors to unique instruments such as the Hubble and Spitzer space telescopes. Hubble and Spitzer give us unprecedented views into the galaxy and some of our faculty already have guaranteed time on the James Webb space telescope when it launches later this year. UCF also manages the U.S. National Science Foundation Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. Even though the main dish collapsed in 2020, scientists are conducting research with the extensive data already collected. Other parts of the observatory are operating, and UCF is working with stakeholders to ensure the facility’s scientific legacy continues. Learn more about the research conducted at Arecibo Observatory. Research Projects Aimed at Returning the U.S. to the Moon When the U.S. returns humans to the Moon in the coming years, there’s a good chance that UCF research will have played a role in the return, whether from landing there safely, harvesting its resources, or training the next generation of space scientists. The university currently has more than a dozen projects aimed at getting people back to the Moon safely. The projects range from reducing the harmful effects of lunar dust to protect equipment and astronauts to developing robotics, flying and landing space craft, and mining fuel to run it all. The work is important because the Moon can be a staging ground for future space missions, such as visiting Mars or asteroids, and its ice could be turned to water that’s used to hydrate astronauts or converted into hydrogen and oxygen as fuel for rockets. Explore UCF’s lunar projects Leaders in Space Exploration From the start of studying space to the items left on the moon and the future of space exploration, our renowned faculty and student researchers share their knowledge and expertise. Learn about the impact that space research has made here on planet Earth and discover what’s still to come. Key Space Facts From a Planetary Scientist A UCF faculty member and Florida Space Institute planetary scientist shares what makes space exploration worthwhile, including answers to questions about topics like Apollo 11, technology’s impact on research, and what he thinks the next frontier of space exploration will be. Finding Water on the Moon In this Research in 60 Seconds video, meet aerospace engineering student Jillian Gloria who explains how her research helps find water on the moon to better understand where astronauts can live and work safely. UCF Space News Check out more space research stories Science & Technology New UCF Project Examines How Teams Will Work Together During Space Missions The research could help combat the decreases in cognition that can occur during long space travels. Science & Technology National Engineering Association Honors UCF’s Space Dirt Expert The American Society of Civil Engineers recognized Pegasus Professor of Physics Dan Britt with the Aerospace Division’s Outstanding Technical Contribution Award, one of the organization’s… Research UCF Part of Historic Civilian Space Flight to the International Space Station Civilian astronauts aboard Axiom’s flight will be part of UCF’s first medical studies looking at how space travel impacts the eyes and brain. Fly High, Reach the Sky! Discover how Esther Beltran contributes to science and scholarship. From space radiation to microgravity to other innovative research, Beltran has helped pave the way for women in a male-dominated field. Find out how she achieved her dreams Space Degrees As new space programs continue to take off from the Central Florida region and beyond, students have an opportunity to break into this exciting industry with a number of space degrees offered at UCF. Bachelor’s Degrees Best bachelor’s degrees for a career in space exploration and research Computer Science BS Mechanical Engineering BSME Aerospace Engineering BSAE Physics BS Graduate Degrees Top master’s and doctoral degrees for advancement in the space industry Computer Science MS Engineering Management MS Physics (MS) – Planetary Sciences Aerospace Engineering PhD Business Degrees Leading business degrees that can be applied to the space field Integrated Business BSBA Finance BSBA Accounting BSBA Marketing BSBA UCF Online Degrees Nationally recognized online space degree programs Aerospace Engineering MSAE Engineering Management MS Materials Science and Engineering MSMSE Mathematical Science Rankings and Accreditations Top 20 Most Innovative University in the Nation U.S. News & World Report ranks UCF as one of the most innovative in its annual list of best colleges. #12 Top 15 Best Atomic/Molecular Physics Schools U.S. News & World Report ranked UCF as one of the best Atomic/Molecular Physics schools in the nation. #81 Best Undergraduate Engineering Program University of Central Florida is ranked No. 81 in Best Undergraduate Engineering Program in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. ABET Accredited The Bachelor of Science programs in Aerospace Engineering and Mechanical Engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. View all of UCF’s Best Colleges rankings. Creating Stellar Connections Throughout Florida and the nation, UCF has built a number of relationships with partners who share similar values — striving toward excellence in any endeavor they may undertake. NASA is an example of one such partnership. The university is participating in several major NASA planetary missions and has the Center for Lunar and Asteroid Surface Science. Having established programs in space and planetary sciences, UCF has significant input into the nation’s space program. The partnership allows leading researchers at both NASA and UCF to ensure that robotic and human missions are done safely and efficiently. Nearby Central Florida Research Park is also home to over 120 companies and serves as a hub for the nation’s military simulation and training programs. With its close proximity to UCF’s main campus, researchers and students have an opportunity to collaborate with industry leaders — working together on projects in the sciences, engineering, photonics and optics, and modeling and simulation. Space Companies Employing UCF Graduates NASA Boeing SpaceX Blue Origin Virgin Atlantic L3Harris Technologies Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman Siemens JPL Made in Space Institutes, Associations and Affiliations Florida Space Institute Unmanned Aerial Systems Research Florida High Tech Corridor Institute for Simulation and Training Federal Aviation Administration FIEA (Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy) Townes Laser Institute Advanced Materials Processing and Analysis Center (AMPAC) Knights Under the Stars A series of free events held at the Robinson Observatory throughout the academic year are open to the community to learn more about the solar system. See the wonders of the night sky through telescopes and gain a better understanding of it through knowledgeable volunteers. View Knights Under the Stars schedule. Areas of Excellence Innovation. Access. Impact. Our integrated approach to teaching and learning prepares students for the future of work and lifelong careers, making a difference in their communities and around the world. Aerospace and Defense Digital Arts and Entertainment Healthcare Hospitality and Tourism Modeling and Simulation Space Transportation Science University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida