Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE FAMILY MEDICINE MEDEX Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 MEDEX 401 Introduction to Paramedicine (8) Introduces the history of paramedicine and role of the paramedic, as well as medical concepts and technical skills relevant to its practice. Prerequisite: Seattle/King County paramedic students only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 401 MEDEX 402 Airway Management (3) Teaches cognitive and psychomotor skills critical to basic and advanced airway management. Includes enhanced techniques of rapid sequence intubation. Prerequisite: MEDEX 401 which may taken concurrently. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 402 MEDEX 403 Patient Assessment (4) Teaches patient assessment and total patient care management. Provides didactic and laboratory exposure necessary to perform complete and thorough patient exams. Prerequisite: MEDEX 401 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 403 MEDEX 404 Medical Emergencies I (5) Studies the pathophysiology and treatment of medical emergencies encountered in cardiopulmonary, neurovascular, endocrine, renal, and obstetric patients. Introduces the pharmacology of neurovascular and cardiopulmonary medications. Prerequisite: MEDEX 403. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 404 MEDEX 405 Trauma Emergencies (5) Emphasizes advanced pre-hospital management of the critical trauma patient. Teaches the pathophysiology and treatment of burns and trauma to the head, chest, and abdomen. Includes advanced techniques in surgical airway. Prerequisite: MEDEX 403 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 405 MEDEX 406 Medical Emergencies II (3) Studies the pathophysiology and treatment of alcoholism, environmental disorders, infections and communicable diseases, hematology, toxicology, and psychiatric emergencies. Prerequisite: MEDEX 405. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 406 MEDEX 407 Special Considerations for Paramedicine (4) Emphasizes the care and treatment of pediatric, geriatric, and bariatric patients. Reviews special considerations encountered in scenarios such as multiple casualty, confined space, and extrication incidents. Prerequisite: MEDEX 406 which may be taken concurrently. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 407 MEDEX 408 Advanced Certifications (5) Instruction in PEPP, PALS, ACLS, ATLS, and National Registry curricula and certifications. Prerequisite: MEDEX 407. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 408 MEDEX 414 Paramedic Clinical Practicum I (3) Participation in all aspects of patient care in the HMC-ER and OR with a primary focus on patient assessment and examination, as well as proficiency in IV cannulation and airway management. Prerequisite: MEDEX 401 which may be taken concurrently; Seattle/King County paramedic students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 414 MEDEX 415 Paramedic Field Practicum I (6) Consists of regularly scheduled ride time with Seattle Medic One in which the student is closely mentored and evaluated by Seattle Fire Department paramedics as the student begins actively participating in patient care. Emphasizes aspects of scene management and total patient care competence. Prerequisite: MEDEX 401 which may be taken concurrently. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 415 MEDEX 424 Paramedic Clinical Practicum II (3) Participation in patient care in the HMC-ER with a focus on patient assessment, examination, IV cannulation, and airway management. Emphasizes the critical care of patients in the cardiovascular intensive care unit. Prerequisite: MEDEX 414. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 424 MEDEX 425 Paramedic Field Practicum II (7) Consists of regularly scheduled ride time with Seattle Medic One in which the student is closely mentored and evaluated by Seattle Fire Department paramedics as the student begins actively participating in patient care. Emphasizes scene management and total patient care competence. Prerequisite: MEDEX 415. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 425 MEDEX 434 Paramedic Clinical Practicum III (4) Participation in patient care in the CHRMC-ER and OR with a focus on pediatric patient assessment, examination, and proficiency in IV cannulation and airway management. Emphasizes the care of expectant mother and newborn through rotations in the UW Labor and Delivery department. Prerequisite: MEDEX 424. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 434 MEDEX 435 Paramedic Field Practicum III (8) Consists of regularly scheduled ride time with Seattle Medic One. The student assumes graduated responsibility for patient care and scene management while being closely evaluated by Seattle Fire Department paramedics as the student begins actively participating in patient care. Emphasizes the field care of the pediatric patient and expectant mother. Prerequisite: MEDEX 425. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 435 MEDEX 444 Paramedic Clinical Practicum IV (3) Participation in patient care in the HMC Emergency Department, Neurology Clinic, Pulmonary Clinic, and Cardiology Clinic. Focuses on trauma management, extrication, MCI, and search/rescue. Includes observation of a minimum of three autopsies with the medical examiner. Prerequisite: MEDEX 434. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 444 MEDEX 445 Paramedic Field Practicum IV (11) Consists of regularly scheduled ride time with Seattle Medic One paramedics. The student assumes all responsibilities for scene management and patient care. Evaluations determine completion of the program. Prerequisite: MEDEX 435. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 445 MEDEX 450 Basic Science in Clinical Medicine (6) Review of important basic science concepts that include relevant topics for a healthcare clinician. Prerequisite: permission of the MEDEX program. Offered: WS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 450 MEDEX 451 Anatomy and Physiology in Clinical Medicine (6) Uses an organ system approach to human anatomy and physiology relevant for a healthcare clinician. Offered: AS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 451 MEDEX 452 Pathophysiology for Primary Care (6) Basic pathological and pathophysiological concepts of diseases commonly encountered in primary-care practice. Pathophysiology studied per organ system. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 452 MEDEX 453 Basic Clinical Skills (5) Provides the student with mastery of a screening history and physical examination and thoroughness in data-collection skills. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 453 MEDEX 454 Adult Medicine I (7) Problem-oriented approach to the diagnosis and management of common primary care conditions. Introduction to relevant laboratory and radiological procedures. Organ system approach. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 454 MEDEX 456 Maternal and Child Health for the MEDEX Practitioner I (3) Designed to acquaint students with principles of prenatal care and primary-care pediatrics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 456 MEDEX 457 Behavioral Medicine I (2) Develops and demonstrates skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 457 MEDEX 458 Behavioral Medicine (2) Develops and demonstrates skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 458 MEDEX 459 Behavioral Medicine (2) Develops and demonstrates skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 459 MEDEX 460 Principles of Patient Management (3) Provides systematic approach to pharmacological therapies including drug choice, risk factor identification and administration. Includes non-pharmacological therapies and emphasizes health education and health promotion strategies. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 460 MEDEX 461 Principles of Patient Management (3) Provides systematic approach to pharmacological therapies including drug choice, risk factor identification and administration. Includes non-pharmacological therapies and emphasizes health education and health promotion strategies. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 461 MEDEX 462 Maternal and Child Health for the MEDEX Practitioner II (3) Continuation of MEDEX 456. Emphasis on diagnosis and treatment of common pediatric problems. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 462 MEDEX 463 Clinical Clerkships I (7-19, max. 19) Full-time clinical clerkship spent in institution-based or specialty practice settings with the supervision of licensed health care providers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 463 MEDEX 465 Clinical Clerkships II (5-19, max. 19) Continuation of clinical clerkships spent in institution-based or specialty practice settings with supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 465 MEDEX 466 Family Practice Clerkship for the MEDEX Practitioner I (7-19, max. 19) Ballweg Family practice under the supervision of physicians throughout the Pacific Northwest. Common primary-care problems. Students and preceptors are educated in the utilization and management of the physician assistant in practice. Students keep computerized records of patient encounters and complete a variety of written assignments. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 466 MEDEX 467 Family Practice Clerkship for the MEDEX Practitioner II (5-19, max. 19) Ballweg Further experience in primary-care practice with emphasis on independent patient management by the student supervised by family practitioners. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 467 MEDEX 468 Emergency Medicine I for the MEDEX Practitioner (2) Approach to the diagnosis and management of common emergency conditions for primary-care physician assistants. Organ system approach. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 468 MEDEX 469 Emergency Medicine II for the MEDEX Practitioner (2) Continuation of MEDEX 468. Approach to diagnosis and management of common emergency conditions for primary-care physician assistant. Organ system approach. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 469 MEDEX 470 Professional Role Development (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 470 MEDEX 471 Professional Role Development (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 471 MEDEX 472 Professional Role Development (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 472 MEDEX 473 Technical Skills (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 473 MEDEX 474 Technical Skills (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 474 MEDEX 475 Technical Skills (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 475 MEDEX 499 Special Field Projects/Independent Study (1-19, max. 19) Clinical clerkships and independent study activities. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 499 MEDEX 510 Healthcare for Rural and Medically Underserved Populations (5) Overview of the nature and severity of disparities in healthcare access and delivery to rural and urban underserved populations for practicing clinicians. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 510 MEDEX 511 Healthcare Administration and Public Health (5) Applies the basic principles of healthcare administration and public health to specific communities and practices. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 511 MEDEX 512 Academic Medicine and Specialty Practice for Practicing Clinicians (5) Overview for practicing clinicians of primary care as well as medical and surgical specialty practice within the academic medicine environment. Prerequisite: admission to the program. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 512 MEDEX 513 Global Health for Practicing Clinicians (5) Overview of global health concerns and solutions including disease processes, health systems, cultural competency, and the impacts of health policies on local populations. Prerequisite: admission to the program. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 513 MEDEX 521 Capstone Project I (3) Includes capstone project introduction, literature review, critical reading, research design and proposals, ethics, IRB, research writing, and results presentation. (Two weeks on the Seattle campus, six weeks online). Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 521 MEDEX 522 Capstone Project II (3) Details students' choice of capstone project and preparation of a detailed proposal including the timeline for completion. Prerequisite: MEDEX 521. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 522 MEDEX 523 Capstone Project III (3) Students work on capstone projects. Prerequisite: MEDEX 522. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 523 MEDEX 524 Capstone Project IV (3) Continuation of work on the capstone project. Prerequisite: MEDEX 523. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 524 MEDEX 525 Capstone Project V (5) Completion of the capstone project, preparation of final drafts, submission of finished project to faculty mentors, and presentation of project. Prerequisite: MEDEX 524. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 525 MEDEX 528 Investigative Skills for Practicing Clinicians (5) Overview of the principles, research methods, and biostatistical and epidemiological techniques necessary to understand and conduct academic and clinical research. Applications critically appraise the public health and biomedical literatures drawing examples from current scientific literature and existing data. Prerequisite: admission to EMCHS program. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 528 MEDEX 531 Clinical Residencies I (3) Clinical residencies spent in community-based or institution-based practice settings with the supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 531 MEDEX 532 Clinical Residencies II (3) Clinical residencies spent in community-based or institution-based practice settings with the supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 532 MEDEX 533 Clinical Residencies III (3) Clinical residencies spent in community-based or institution-based practice settings with the supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 533 MEDEX 536 Health Policy for Practicing Clinicians (4) Overview of United States health policy issues including payment structures, quality, disparities, workforce and legislative impact. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 536 MEDEX 537 Leadership for Practicing Clinicians (4) Leadership skills for clinical practice, community, the profession, and organizations. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 537 MEDEX 538 The Physician Assistant Profession (4) Overview of the physician assistant profession, focusing on the history of the profession, education, economics, legal, political, and professional aspects of the physician assistant profession, current and future physician assistant roles, and hot topics. Prerequisite: EMCHS students only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 538 MEDEX 540 Healthcare for Rural and Underserved Populations (5) Overview of the nature and severity of disparities in healthcare access and delivery to rural and urban underserved populations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 540 MEDEX 541 Healthcare Administration and Public Health (5) Application of the basic principles of healthcare administration and public health to specific communities and practices. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 541 MEDEX 542 Academic Medicine and Specialty Practice (5) Overview of primary care as well as medical and surgical specialty practice within the academic medicine environment. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 542 MEDEX 543 Global Health (5) Overview of global health concerns and solutions including disease processes, health systems, cultural competency, and the impacts of health policies on local populations. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 543 MEDEX 550 Basic Science in Clinical Medicine (6) Intensive review of important basic scientific concepts relevant to clinical medicine. Prerequisite: MEDEX Northwest students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 550 MEDEX 551 Anatomy and Physiology (6) Overview and review of human anatomy and physiology by organ system. Prerequisite: MEDEX students only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 551 MEDEX 552 Pathophysiology for Primary Care (6) Examines pathological and pathophysiological concepts of diseases commonly encountered in primary-care practice. Studies pathophysiology per organ system. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 552 MEDEX 553 Basic Clinical Skills (5) Provides the student with mastery of history-taking and physical examination skills, thoroughness in data collection, medical record-keeping, and verbal presentation skills. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 553 MEDEX 554 Adult Medicine I (7) Problem-oriented, organ-system approach to the diagnosis and management of common primary-care conditions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 554 MEDEX 555 Adults Medicine II (7) Problem-oriented, organ-system approach to the diagnosis and management of common primary-care conditions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 555 MEDEX 556 Maternal Child Health I (3) Examines the principles of prenatal care and primary-care pediatrics. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 556 MEDEX 557 Behavioral Medicine I (2) Helps to develop and demonstrate skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common behavioral and emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 557 MEDEX 558 Behavioral Medicine II (2) Helps to develop and demonstrate skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common behavioral and emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 558 MEDEX 559 Behavioral Medicine III (2) Helps to develop and demonstrate skills needed for assessment, diagnosis, and management of common behavioral and emotional problems in a clinical setting. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 559 MEDEX 560 Principles of Patient Management I (3) Provides systematic approach to pharmacological therapies including drug choice, risk factor identification, and administration. Includes non-pharmacological therapies and emphasizes health education and health promotion. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 560 MEDEX 561 Principles of Patient Management II (3) Provides systematic approach to pharmacological therapies including drug choice, risk factor identification, and administration. Includes non-pharmacological therapies and emphasizes health education and health promotion. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 561 MEDEX 562 Maternal Child Health II (3) Emphasizes the diagnosis and treatment of common pediatric problems. Prerequisite: MEDEX 556. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 562 MEDEX 563 Clinical Clerkships I (7-19, max. 19) Full-time clerkships spent in institution-based or specialty practice setting with the supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 563 MEDEX 565 Clinical Clerkships II (5-19, max. 19) Full-time clerkships spent in institution-based or specialty practice setting with the supervision of licensed healthcare providers. Prerequisite: MEDEX 563. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 565 MEDEX 566 Family Practice Clerkship I (7-19, max. 19) Family practice under the supervision of physicians throughout the Pacific Northwest. Common primary-care problems. Students and preceptors are educated in the utilization and management of the physician assistant in practice. Students keep computerized records of encounters and complete a variety of written assignments. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 566 MEDEX 567 Family Practice Clerkship II (5-19, max. 19) Further experience in primary-care practice with an emphasis on independent patient management by the student supervised by family practitioners. Prerequisite: MEDEX 566. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 567 MEDEX 568 Emergency Medicine I (2) Diagnosis and management of common emergency conditions for primary-care practitioners. Organ system approach. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 568 MEDEX 569 Emergency Medicine II (2) Diagnosis and management of common emergency conditions for primary-care practitioners. Organ system approach. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 569 MEDEX 570 Professional Role Development I (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 570 MEDEX 571 Professional Role Development II (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 571 MEDEX 572 Professional Role Development III (1) Explores professional role development, health access issues, licensing issues, healthcare quality, interdisciplinary relationships, diverse populations, and the healthcare environment. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 572 MEDEX 573 Technical Skills I (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 573 MEDEX 574 Technical Skills II (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 574 MEDEX 575 Technical Skills III (1) Introduces clinical skills and procedures through hands-on experiences. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 575 MEDEX 580 Homelessness in Seattle (2) Multi-disciplinary course developing knowledge and skills in the area of acute and chronic homeless health problems, understanding the history and social constructs as well as the services and disparities facing this population. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 580 MEDEX 588 Investigative Skills for Entry-Level Clinicians (5) Overview of the principles, research methods, and biostatistical and epidemiological techniques necessary to understand and conduct academic and clinical research. Application appraise the public health and biomedical literatures drawing on examples from current scientific literature and existing data. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 588 MEDEX 599 Independent Study (1-19, max. 19) Supervised clinical clerkship or independent study activities to meet specific needs. Prerequisite: permission of the MEDEX program. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: MEDEX 599 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022