COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Sport Management, Major MajorSport Management All Programs College of Applied Studies Sport Management Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Sport Management program takes your passion for athletics and combines it with the practical skills and professional connections needed to work around the globe in the management of intercollegiate athletics, minor- and major-league franchises, park and recreation departments and the health club / fitness industry. Learn how sport management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU sport management students have secured highly sought internships with organizations such as the Memphis Grizzlies, Oklahoma City Thunder, Minnesota Vikings, Sporting Kansas City, Wichita State Athletics, Kansas City Chiefs and Major League Baseball. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the sport management program, you must first be admitted to Wichita State and the College of Applied Studies For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Sport management student lands NFL internship Tommy Rudawsky's time as manager for the Shocker men's basketball team gave him the skills and confidence to apply for -- and eventually land -- a coveted summer internship with the Minnesota Vikings. He didn't stop there. Rudawsky was then offered a semester-long internship at the University of Arkansas. It won't be easy, but Rudawsky hopes these experiences will help him with his ultimate goal of becoming an NFL general manager. Curriculum To complete the sport management major, you'll take 55 credit hours of core courses, including extensive practicum/internship experience, in addition to a number of electives based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A degree in sport management from Wichita State opens doors to employment in diverse sectors of the sport industry. Our alumni are employed in Kansas, across the nation and internationally—with local schools, universities, health clubs, minor-league and professional league sport organizations. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Exercise Science Exercise Science (Minor) Sport Management (Minor) Physical Education: PreK-12 Communication - Integrated Marketing Communication Communication - Journalism 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©