Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics Conservation Energy People News News Lea Cook blazes a trail from technical college to the Clemson University graduation stage May 9, 2022 Lea Cook was managing a fast-food restaurant in Goose Creek five years ago when she decided she wanted a better work-life balance. She ended up becoming a trailblazer.... For one Fulbright scholar, the Clemson Experience has been electrifying March 2, 2022 Moazzam Nazir had a master’s degree in electrical engineering and a job with a research institute in Pakistan when he realized he needed to expand his knowledge.... Warren Lasch Conservation Center teams with Historic Preservation program to empower African American communities to present and protect their stories February 23, 2022 Clemson University’s Master of Science in Historic Preservation program is the recipient of two grants that will support local community organizations working to preserve African American history in South Carolina.... Clemson pitches $140M wind turbine facility expansion to Dept. of Energy secretary February 17, 2022 U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm toured Clemson University’s wind turbine testing campus and discussed Clemson’s hope of a $140 million expansion.... Associate Professor, Shuangshuang Jin receives Junior Faculty Award for Excellence in Teaching November 19, 2021 Eight faculty members from the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences received awards in a Nov. 18 celebration at the Owen Pavilion on the shores of Lake Hartwell.... Ionnis Karamouzas receives National Science Foundation CAREER award for his work with robot navigation October 12, 2021 Ten faculty members in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences are starting the new academic year with a fresh infusion of research dollars after winning some of the nation’s most prestigious awards for junior faculty members.... Growing offshore wind power could boost Clemson’s North Charleston testing facility May 18, 2021 Wind farms are proliferating as the United States increasingly embraces renewable energy, and the nation’s largest wind turbine testing facility — in North Charleston — is playing a supporting role.... Crichton to lead Dominion Energy Innovation Center at Clemson February 9, 2021 Meredyth Crichton, formerly of GE Energy, has joined Clemson University as executive director of the Dominion Energy Innovation Center in Charleston. ... Behind the Scenes: Warren Lasch Conservation Center on Excavating Block Lifts October 20, 2020 In recent months, the conservation and archaeological teams from the Warren Lasch Conservation Center (WLCC) have been excavating block lifts removed from H.L. Hunley.... Fulbright winner Jessica Baron travels globe for computer graphics research July 2, 2020 Jessica Baron has traveled the globe and worked as an intern for some of the world’s top video game, animation and visual effects companies since arriving at Clemson University three years ago.... Green energy gets a boost with Clemson University project January 15, 2020 Flooding at high tide has made Charleston one of the first South Carolina cities to directly feel the pain of climate change, so it’s fitting that a new green-energy research project is launching in the midst of the most vulnerable areas.... Museum Partners with Warren Lasch Conservation Center to Restore a Colonial Ceramic Vessel October 1, 2019 The Charleston Museum recently collaborated with the Warren Lasch laboratory to conserve an unusual colonial earthenware vessel, one that is now ready for exhibition.... Mapping Success March, 2019 NORTH CHARLESTON, South Carolina — Clemson part of a high-tech effort to break the cycle of poverty... <<OLDER ENTRIES Copyright © Clemson University Clemson in Charleston | 1240 Supply Street | North Charleston, SC 29405 843-730-5113 | Email Us