Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Resources For Students Student Employment Student Employment Join our team! Be a valuable part of Columbia Health programs, services, and initiatives. We have opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, including work-study. Employment Expand all Collapse all Go Ask Alice! Writer Position Summary Alice! Health Promotion is looking to hire a graduate student from Columbia University and its affiliates to write for the health question and answer website, Go Ask Alice!. Reporting to the Health Promotion Specialist – Go Ask Alice!, Go Ask Alice! writers translate complex medical and health information into engaging, readable, and smart prose suitable for undergraduate and graduate students at Columbia. Writing is in a question-and-answer format. Using research provided, writers craft responses to health questions that have been submitted anonymously to the Go Ask Alice! website. This is a part-time student casual position working 5 hours/week and an anticipated start date in Mid-August 2022. Work is done 100% remotely. To apply, submit resume, cover letter, and two writing samples (one conversational and one technical, each about 300 words) to the Careers at Columbia Job Posting (526029). Responsibilities Use research provided to write new answers or update existing answers for the Go Ask Alice! website. Gather, review, and organize supplementary research and information from reputable medical and scientific literature, websites, and other sources to be used for Go Ask Alice! website content, as needed. Submit at least one to two responses per week. Edit or revise submitted answers as requested. Participate in Go Ask Alice! staff meetings as requested. Other duties as assigned, which will include, but is not limited to, participation in professional development workshops, facilitating workshops, supporting unit-wide events and initiatives, and attendance at all-Alice! staff meetings. Minimum Qualifications Enrollment in a graduate program at Columbia University or affiliates. Must have strong research, writing, and editing skills. Must have strong written and verbal communication skills. Ability to translate complex concepts into everyday language, especially health-related concepts. Ability to work independently. Preferred Qualifications Familiarity with health and science and the ability to work with sensitive health-related content is preferred. Have a solid knowledge base in at least one of Go Ask Alice!’s main topic areas: alcohol/drugs, fitness/nutrition, emotional health, sexuality/sexual health, relationships, general health (writers work on all health topics, but expertise in at least one area is desirable). Go Ask Alice! Information Specialist Position Summary Alice! Health Promotion is looking to hire an undergraduate student from Columbia University and its affiliates to do research for the health question and answer website, Go Ask Alice!. Reporting to the Health Promotion Specialist – Go Ask Alice!, Go Ask Alice! information specialists gather facts, resources, and the latest research findings for Go Ask Alice!, Columbia’s health Q&A Internet resource. Submit comprehensive research documents that Go Ask Alice! writers use when writing responses for publication. This is a part-time student casual position working 10 hours/week (preferably between the hours of 9 AM and 5 PM ET) and an anticipated start date in Summer 2022. To apply, submit resume and cover letter to the Careers at Columbia Job Posting (526041). Responsibilities Gather, review, and organize information from reputable medical and scientific literature, websites, and other sources to be used for Go Ask Alice! website content. Record researched information as detailed reports to be used by writers to prepare new or update existing answers for the Go Ask Alice! website. Consult by phone or e-mail with medical providers and health professionals while researching. As requested, review and offer feedback on answers based on research prior to live posting on the Go Ask Alice! website. Assist with the site’s overall production. Perform basic clerical and administrative tasks, including typing, filing, sorting mail, answering telephones, running errands, and greeting and directing visitors, as needed. Other duties as assigned, which will include, but is not limited to, participation in professional development workshops, supporting unit-wide events and initiatives, and attendance at all-Alice! staff meetings. Minimum Qualifications Enrollment in an undergraduate program at Columbia University or affiliates. Must have strong research skills. Must have strong written and verbal communication skills. Ability to translate complex concepts into everyday language. Ability to manage time effectively. Preferred Qualifications Familiarity with health and science and ability to work with sensitive health-related content is preferred. Have a solid knowledge base in at least one of Go Ask Alice!’s main topic areas: alcohol/drugs, fitness/nutrition, emotional health, sexuality/sexual health, relationships, general health. Other Requirements The selected students must be available to work 10 hours per week (Monday through Friday), preferably between the hours of 9 AM and 5 PM ET. Volunteering Columbia Health encourages students from across the University to get involved by volunteering as educators and advocates. Find an opportunity. Student Resources Links to Success Funding for Student Organizations Get Involved Student Employment Summer Program Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close