Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Film and Media Arts Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Film and Media Arts Major Apply Visit Request More Info Film and Media Arts Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media Arts Cultivate your voice as an independent filmmaker and gain advanced production skills with the Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media Arts in Temple’s School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Develop a specialization by focusing on one of four degree concentrations within this major, including Cinematography, Post-Production, Producing and Screen Studies. This 121-credit bachelor’s degree prepares you for independent project-based film work, a professional career in media production or related graduate-level coursework. Within the Film and Media Arts program, you will develop both theory- and practice-based skills. Coursework covers, among other topics, the major theories of image making and new technologies as well as the social, political, and economic forces that shape media arts and culture. You’ll also refine your creative vision through hands-on courses in all aspects of media production and have access to state-of-the-art professional cameras. Film and Media Arts BA students enjoy an energetic campus culture located in central North Philadelphia. A prime city for filmmakers and enthusiasts, Philadelphia is home to top-of-the-line production facilities, such as SunCenter Studios. The Philadelphia Film Society hosts an annual Film Festival premiering critically acclaimed films ranging from local artists's works to larger-scale productions. Courses are taught by esteemed faculty who have been honored with Oscar, Emmy, Guggenheim, Rockefeller, Fulbright, Sundance and international awards. Graduates have gone on to become cinematographers, editors and screenwriters, among other roles. Learn more about potential careers for Film and Media Arts BA students. Choosing between a BFA and a BA in Film and Media Arts Deciding whether a BFA or BA is right for you depends on your academic needs and professional goals. The BFA in Film and Media Arts offers an intensive, arts-based degree program concentrating on Directing, Media Arts or Screenwriting. The BFA focuses on developing students’ creative voices and powers of personal expression. The BA in Film and Media Arts provides a more general approach to the field, giving students the option to focus their studies in one of four concentrations—Cinematography, Post-Production, Producing and Screen Studies. Concentrations You can focus on Film and Media Arts or you can take one of the following concentrations. Cinematography Earn a liberal arts degree that prepares you for graduate film programs or professional careers in film and TV production with a focus on cinematography. The program includes courses in cinematic and theatrical lighting, filmmaking, history of photography, making documentaries, moving camera, and videography. Read more about the Cinematography Concentration in the Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media Arts. View Concentration Details Post Production Earn a liberal arts degree that prepares you for graduate film programs or professional careers in film and TV production with a focus on post-production. The program includes courses in 3-D modeling, compositing, digital animation, making documentaries, screenwriting, three levels of editing, two levels of audio and videography. Read more about the Post-Production concentration in the Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media program. View Concentration Details Producing Earn a liberal arts degree that prepares you for graduate film programs or professional careers in film and TV production with a focus on producing. The program includes courses in distribution and exhibition, fundraising, producing, a producing internship, screenwriting, and videography. Read more about the Producing concentration in the Film and Media Bachelor of Arts program. View Concentration Details Screen Studies Study the aesthetics, cultural significance and history of moving-image media. This program draws upon the fields of cinema studies, media studies and media arts theory, while encouraging you to approach screen cultures from neighboring disciplines, such as area studies, art history or visual studies. Read more about the Screen Studies concentration in the Film and Media Bachelor of Arts program. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum As a Film and Media Arts major, you will develop your technical and expressive skills through coursework and hands-on projects. After completing the general academic requirements for the major, students can design their own plan of study with the help of an academic advisor. You’ll choose from a range of middle- and upper-level courses in one of the four concentrations. A few courses you can anticipate exploring are the following. Introduction to Film and Video Analysis Media Culture Survey of New Media Learn more about Film and Media Arts BA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Film and Media Arts MFA MediaXarts MA Related Graduate Certificates Documentary Arts and Ethnographic Research Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $18,168.00 per year Out-of-state: $31,440.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The School of Theater, Film and Media Arts academic advisors will help you chart your course through your academic program. They guide you in choosing electives, as well as navigating policies and procedures regarding changes of major, leaves of absence and withdrawals, and registration. Leanna Arnold is the senior academic advisor for the Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts. Phone: 215-204-2227 Email: leanna.arnold@temple.edu Program Contact Chet Pancake is the chair of the Film and Media Arts department. Phone: 410-258-8853 Email: chet.pancake@temple.edu Faculty Mentoring Faculty are an invaluable resource for specific information about your major. They can also help you to prepare for both graduate school and your future career. Students in the Theater Department select a faculty advisor within their first year, while those in the Department of Film and Media Arts are assigned faculty mentors. Students can sign up for advising sessions with faculty mentors throughout the semester. For more information, contact the following faculty member. Chet Pancake Phone: 410-258-8853 Email: chet.pancake@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Faculty are an invaluable resource for specific information about your major. They can also help you to prepare for both graduate school and your future career. Students in the Theater Department select a faculty advisor within their first year, while those in the Department of Film and Media Arts are assigned faculty mentors. Students can sign up for advising sessions with faculty mentors throughout the semester. Study Away Student clubs and organizations give you the opportunity to gain stage performance or production experience, express yourself without classroom restrictions, and network with other film and theater professionals. In addition, you can make friends and enhance your social life. Consider joining one or more of the following clubs. Delta Kappa Alpha is a selective national organization whose mission is to foster lifelong character, collaborative and creative storytelling, ethical and productive business practices, philanthropic action, and fraternal bonds by and between students of the cinematic arts. Film in Color is an organization geared toward creating a welcoming space for students of color within Temple’s Film Department, affording the opportunity to come together to create, discuss, learn from and network with one another. The Greater Philadelphia Film Office Next connects Philadelphia-area students, recent graduates and rising content creators with industry leaders. Mise-en-Femme is a production organization aimed at encouraging women to work together to gain knowledge and hands-on experience in the art of filmmaking. They also run Temple Women’s Fest, which is a showcase of the efforts of some of the most influential female filmmakers. The Queer Film Collective’s mission is to empower queer filmmakers and explore queer film both in theory and practice. Both queer and straight students are welcome to join. Temple Film Collective is a group of Temple student independent filmmakers who produce their own films and host an online film festival. The University Media Screening Society meets once a week to screen a film from Temple's Media Library. Sometimes, screenings are substituted with special events. Wandering Studios is a student film organization focused on helping students create short films throughout the semester. Learn more about Film and Media Arts student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Spend a semester or summer studying in the Los Angeles Study Away Program. This program provides students with direct learning insights and professional work experiences in the media and entertainment industries. The lots and soundstages of historic Raleigh Studios in Hollywood, California, serve as the backdrop for academic coursework, including a guest lecture series featuring notable alumni. Internships span a broad spectrum of opportunities in advertising, entertainment management, film, public relations and television. Learn more about Temple’s Los Angeles Study Away Program. Explore Temple’s other study abroad options, including opportunities in China, Italy, Japan and the UK. CA-FMA-BA Additional Program Information Visit School Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Film and Media Arts Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info