Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving iSchool Committees alt="The UT University of Texas tower rising above trees against a blue sky with white clouds" iSchool Committees 2021-2022 Academic Year Leadership Leadership Roles Dean: Eric T. Meyer (2018-2024) Associate Dean for Education: Soo Young Rieh (2019-2023) Associate Dean for Research: Tony Grubesic (2019-2023) Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Edgar Gómez-Cruz (2022-2026) Assistant Dean for Education and Student Affairs: Carla Criner Education Leadership Roles Director of Undergraduate Studies: Ken Fleischmann (2020-2022) Director of Master’s Studies: Ying Ding (2021-2022) Graduate Advisor: Ying Ding (2020-2022) Director of Doctoral Studies / Assistant Graduate Advisor: Yan Zhang (2020-2022) Journal Leadership Roles Journal editors-in-chief, Information & Culture: Ciaran Trace & Andrew Dillon (2019-2022) Journal editor-in-chief, Computers, Environment and Urban Systems: Tony Grubesic Journal editor-in-chief, International Regional Science Review: Tony Grubesic Journal editor-in-chief, Telematics and Informatics: Tony Grubesic University-wide Appointed and Elected Committees and Roles Faculty Council Representative: Ying Ding (2020-2022) Graduate Assembly Representative: Soo Young Rieh (2019-2022) Undergraduate Curriculum Changes Committee: Ken Fleischmann (2019-2022) Undergraduate Studies Advisory Committee: Soo Young Rieh (2020-2023) Continuing, Professional, and Online Education Leadership Council: Soo Young Rieh (2021-2022) Diversity Officer & Minority Liaison Officer: Edgar Gómez-Cruz (2022-2026) Council for Racial and Ethnic Equity and Diversity (CREED): Jakki Bailey (iSchool rep) & Loriene Roy (at-large rep) LGBTQ+ Access, Equity, and Inclusion Council: Amelia Acker (2021-2023) University Faculty Gender Equity Council (UFGEC): Amelia Acker (2019-2022) UT Hispanic Serving Institution - Faculty Engagement Subcommittee: Jacek Gwizdka (2020-2022) Aspire IChange-Institutional Change Initiative Network: Bo Xie University Co-Op Board of Directors: Ciaran Trace (2018-2022) Information Technology Leadership Committee (ITLC): Sam Burns (2020-2023) Faculty Council C13 Information Technology Committee: Yan Zhang (2020-2023) Design Studies Bridging Disciplines Program Faculty Panel: Jacek Gwizdka Museum Studies Bridging Disciplines Program Faculty Panel: Sarah Norris Smart Cities Bridging Disciplines Program Faculty Panel: Ken Fleischmann Student Leaders iSchool Doctoral Student Association (iDSA): Kristina Shiroma, Isabella Schloss, Angie Zhang SASI: Lexi Kiil, Janette Núñez Standing Committees Committees with an asterisk (*) next to the name include undergraduate, master's, or doctoral student representitives or postoctoral representitives that serve on the committee. General Assembly To receive reports from committees and leaders in the iSchool that pertain to the whole community, and to discuss matters with school-wide impact. Meets at least once per term. The Fall 2021 meeting will be September 7th, 2021 from 12:30 P.M. - 2:30 P.M. Chair: Dean All eligible faculty All eligible staff All post-doctoral researchers All doctoral students Extended Budget Council Advises the Dean on hiring, governance, and strategic issues of importance to the School. Meets 1:00 P.M. - 3:00 P.M., normally on the third Friday of the month. Fall 2021 meetings are scheduled for September 17th, October 15th, November 19th, and December 10th. Chair: Dean All tenured full and associate professors Tenure-track professors are also invited but not required to attend open discussions Promotion and Tenure Committee Conducts annual reviews of faculty and makes recommendations for promotion and tenure, comprehensive periodic review, and mid-probationary review. Meetings are during the latter portion of EBC meetings. There will be voting on current promotion & tenure cases at the October 15th meeting. Chair: Loriene Roy All tenured full and associate professors Research Committee * To discuss and stretegically plan research-related developments at the iSchool. Meeting frequency and schedule TBD. Chair: Tony Grubesic (Associate Dean for Research, ex officio) IRB Review Chair: Jacek Gwizdka (ex officio) All eligible faculty All post-doctoral researchers All grants-related staff All interested doctoral students Colloquium Committee * To enhance the research culture of the ischool, the committee plans and coordinates the Research Colloquia and speaker series. Chair: Tony Grubesic Keisha Brown (Director of Communications, ex officio) Jakki Bailey Kayla Booth Min Kyung Lee Sarah Norris TBD (1-2 doctoral student representatives) Education Committee The education committee is the umbrella committee for education policy and implementation. This committee’s meetings will incorporate meetings of the Information Studies GSC, and is the body through which the doctoral, master’s (including MSISP), and undergraduate studies committees report to the whole faculty with recommendations and items for wider discussion. Meets monthly during terms from 1:00 P.M. – 3:00 P.M., normally on the first Friday of the month. Meetings for Fall 2021 are September 3rd, October 1st, November 5th, and December 3rd. There will also be a special meeting on October 8th for doctoral student reviews. Chair: Soo Young Rieh (Associate Dean for Education, ex officio) GSC Information Studies Chair: Soo Young Rieh GSC MSISP Chair: Ken Fleischmann Carla Criner (ex officio) All eligible faculty Doctoral Studies Committee * This committee handles recruitment and evaluation of doctoral applicants for admission, organizes the annual doctoral student review cycle, coordinates nominations of doctoral students to prestigious University and external awards, and works with the Director of the Doctoral Program on all matters related to the doctoral program. This committee reports to the Education Committee, and is expected to normally meet monthly on a date before the Education Committee meeting. Chair: Yan Zhang (Director of Doctoral Studies) Soo Young Rieh (ex officio) Carla Criner (ex officio) Jakki Bailey Tony Grubesic David Lankes Angela Smith TBD (1-2 doctoral student representatives) Master’s Studies Committee * This committee provides oversight of curricular and programmatic issues for the MSIS, and ensures the smooth operation of our master’s program. This committee reports to the Education Committee, and is expected to normally meet monthly on a date before the Education Committee meeting. NOTE: While this committee will look at issues of admissions standards and processes, the actual evaluation of applications will be done by the separate Master's Admissions Sub-Committee. Chair: Ying Ding (Director of Master’s Studies) Soo Young Rieh (ex officio) Carla Criner (ex officio) David Lankes Eric Nordquist Ciaran Trace Aaron Ulmer TBD (Doctoral student representatives) TBD (1-2 master's student representatives) Master’s Admissions Sub-committee This committee provides oversight of curricular and programmatic issues for the MSIS, and ensures the smooth operation of our master’s program. This committee reports to the Education Committee, and is expected to normally meet monthly on a date before the Education Committee meeting. NOTE: While this committee will look at issues of admissions standards and processes, the actual evaluation of applications will be done by the separate Master's Admissions Sub-Committee. Co-Chairs: Carla Criner (Assistant Dean) and Ying Ding (Director of Master’s Studies) Amelia Acker Craig Blaha James Howison Matt Lease Sarah Norris 5-7 NTT Faculty TBD Undergraduate Studies Committee * Oversees the undergraduate curriculum. This year, the committee will focus on launching the new informatics degrees. This committee reports to the Education Committee, and is expected to normally meet monthly on a date before the Education Committee meeting. Chair: Ken Fleischmann (Director of Undergraduate Studies) Soo Young Rieh (ex officio) Carla Criner (ex officio) Natasha Saldaña (Undergraduate Program Coordinator, ex officio) Jeffery Willett (Undergraduate Academic Advisor, ex officio) Craig Blaha Robert Bautista Philip Doty Elliott Hauser Jessica Isaacs Steve Slota Quinn Stewart Keisha Brown Aaron Ulmer Jiaxin An (Doctoral student) Angie Zhang (Doctoral Student) Sam Marsh (Master's Student) Marshanah Taylor (Undergraduate Student, Curriculum Subcommittee) Michael Chen (Undergraduate Student, Student Feedback Subcommittee) Arya Eledat (Undergraduate Student, Student Feedback Subcommittee) Sonali Hornick (Undergraduate Student, Student Feedback Subcommittee) Rakshita Kot (Undergraduate Student, Marketing Subcommittee) Anjali Kanumuri (Undergraduate Student, Program Handbook Subcommittee) Diversity and Inclusion * Dedicated to increasing the iSchool's diversity and creating an inclusive community that welcomes all students, staff, faculty, and friends of the school. The committee will also liaise with the current representatives to CREED, UFGEC, LGBTQ+ AEIC, and other university-level committees. Chair: Edgar Gómez-Cruz Ahmer Arif Kayla Booth David Lankes Natasha Saldaña Bo Xie TBD (Doctoral student representative) TBD (Master's student representative) TBD (Undergraduate student representative) Faculty and Staff Awards & Honors Nominating Committee * To make nominations and produce supporting materials for a variety of faculty and staff awards that are available at UT throughout the year. Make recommendations to the Dean or other appropriate individuals / bodies for awards and honors. Also serve as a memorial committee as needed. Chair: Matt Lease Carol Carreon Jacek Gwizdka Eric Nordquist Pat Reichenbach TBD (Doctoral student representative) TBD (Master's student representative) TBD (Undergraduate student representative) Campaign Committee * To lead efforts on the University of Texas fundraising campaign, and on the iSchool 75th Anniversary campaign (1948-2023). Chair: Shannon Hickson (Development Director, ex officio) Jessica Isaacs (Development Associate, ex officio) Randolph Bias Keisha Brown Andrew Dillon Philip Doty James Howison Loriene Roy Ciaran Trace TBD (Doctoral student representative) Committee on Committees * Reviews committee structure and membership annually and makes recommendations for membership and leadership roles to the faculty and to the dean. Meets annually in the spring to make recommendations for the coming year. Chair: Eric T. Meyer (ex officio) Carla Criner Edgar Gómez-Cruz Elliott Hauser Dona Kurtz TBD (Doctoral student representative) Ad Hoc Committees Committees with an asterisk (*) next to the name include undergraduate, master's, or doctoral student representitives or postoctoral representitives that serve on the committee. Search Committee: Assistant Professor, particularly in the area of Human-Centered Data Science and/or User Experience (UX) Design * This committee will lead the effort to recruit, screen applicants, interview, and make recommendations for hiring in the area of human-centered data science and/or user experience design. Intersections between these or with any of the six undergraduate concentrations should be encouraged. All search committees should consult with Assistant Dean for DEI Edgar Gómez-Cruz throughout the search process. Chair: Andrew Dillon Ahmer Arif Min Kyung Lee Ida Rahnami TBD (Doctoral student representative) Search Committee: Assistant Professor, particularly in the area of Health Informatics and/or Social Justice Informatics * This committee will lead the effort to recruit, screen applicants, interview, and make recommendations for hiring in the area of health informatics and/or social justice informatics. Intersections between these or with any of the six undergraduate concentrations should be encouraged. All search committees should consult with Assistant Dean for DEI Edgar Gómez-Cruz throughout the search process. Chair: Bo Xie Tony Grubesic Angela Smith Philip Jones TBD (Doctoral student representative) ALA Review Committees The ALA review was delayed by COVID-19 until February 2022; most of the work to create the report happened during the 2020-2021 academic year, but the self-study and site visit will be completed during the 2021-2022 academic year. Some of the students listed below have already completed their studies; new students will be consulted as needed to ensure student participation. Accreditation Executive Committee: Eric T. Meyer (Dean, Chair of Systemic Planning Standard) Soo Young Rieh (Associate Dean for Education, Co-Chair of Curriculum Standard) Tony Grubesic (Associate Dean for Research, Chair of Faculty Standard) Loriene Roy (Professor, Co-Chair of Curriculum Standard) Carla Criner (Assistant Dean for Education and Student Affairs, Chair of Students Standard) Kamar Nassor (Chief Business Officer, Chair of Administration, Finances, and Resources Standard) Subcommittees for each standard: Standard I: SYSTEMATIC PLANNING Eric T. Meyer (Chair, Dean) Tony Grubesic (Associate Dean for Research) James Howison (Associate Professor) Shannon Hickson (Director of Development and Alumni Relations) Emily Vernon (MSIS Student) Standard II: CURRICULUM Soo Young Rieh (Co-Chair, Associate Dean for Education) Loriene Roy (Co-Chair, Professor) Ken Fleischmann (Professor) Carla Criner (Assistant Dean for Education and Student Affairs) Matthew Glaser (MSIS Student) Anne Morgan (MSIS Student) Yogita Sharma (MSIS Student) Standard III: FACULTY Tony Grubesic (Chair, Associate Dean for Research) Ying Ding (Professor) Dona Kurtz (Executive Assistant) Standard IV: STUDENTS Carla Criner (Chair, Assistant Dean for Education and Student Affairs) Amelia Acker (Co-Chair, Assistant Professor) Soo Young Rieh (Associate Dean for Education) Eric Nordquist (Clinical Associate Professor) Carol Carreon (Graduate Program Administrator) Rachel Van Middlesworth (Senior Administrative Associate) Sanjana Tripathi (MSIS Student) Standard V: ADMINISTRATION, FINANCES, AND RESOURCES Kamar Nassor (Chair, Chief Business Officer) Jacek Gwizdka (Associate Professor) Sam Burns (Senior IT Manager) Quinn Stewart (Instructional Technology Specialist) Committee Student Representatives Assistant Dean Criner works with student leaders to identify volunteers to serve on our committees (most do include student representatives). If you are interested in serving on a particular committee, please reach out to Dr. Criner and SASI/iDSA to express your interest. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022