FACULTY RESEARCH EDUCATION Our Programs Funding Sources for Trainees Fraser Prize TECHNOLOGY Cores PennCHOP Microbiome Program SEMINARS / EVENTS Seminars Events ADMINISTRATION Dept. Staff Directory Proposal and Grant Information Services Human Resources DONATE Donate Now Donor Highlights Select Page Penn Center for Research on Coronavirus and Other Emerging Pathogens OUR DEPARTMENT The inhabitants of Earth are mostly microbes, and their activities are central to human welfare. Microbes can cause disease, but a properly functioning microbiome is essential for health. Microbes spoil food, but drive many forms of food production. Microbes mediate organismic decay, but catalyze numerous geochemical processes essential for life on Earth. Research in the Penn Microbiology Department focuses on infectious agents that threaten global health, with an emphasis on understanding molecular mechanisms and developing key new methods. Areas of focus include pathogenic bacteria of the airway and gut, HIV/AIDS, insect- and rodent-borne viruses, herpes viruses, papillomaviruses, emerging infectious diseases and the human microbiome. On the host side, faculty study many areas of immunology related to infection, including innate and adaptive immunity, tumor immunology and vaccine development. NEWS Penn Microbiology@PennMicro· Community is thriving w/ MicroIDEAs! The Spring Social last Friday highlighted the impressive amount of activities undertaken aimed at enhancing inclusion! Join us next Fall!! : Maya Brodsky Penn Microbiology@PennMicro· Susan Weiss will deliver the Nathanson Lecture Wednesday May 4 at noon ET. Her title is "40 Years of Coronaviruses". Hear a world expert on Coronaviruses provide a unique and sophisticated overview of work in the field! https://primetime.bluejeans.com/a2m/live-event/xqbzwhrb Retweet on TwitterPenn Microbiology Retweeted Dr. Sunny Shin@SunnyShinLab· Congratulations Dr. @naseernawar! I am so proud of you! @CAMBUpenn @PennMicro #BGSgraduation2022 https://twitter.com/CAMBUpenn/status/1516399528252948480 Penn Microbiology@PennMicro· Join us tomorrow at 12pm for the Spring 2022 #Microbiology Seminar Series! Prof. Russell A. DeBose-Boyd @russdebo will discuss "UBIAD1, a vitamin K synthetic enzyme that moonlights as a key regulator of cholesterol synthesis" @ CRB/Austrian Auditorium or http://bit.ly/3Iw6EaG Retweet on TwitterPenn Microbiology Retweeted Alliance for Cancer Gene Therapy@ACGTFoundation· CAR macrophages, a type of cancer cell and gene therapy, are being studied in patients in a new phase 1 clinical trial at Penn Medicine (@PennMicro @PennCancer ) and other cancer centers. #cellpherapy #genetherapy https://acgtfoundation.org/news/car-macrophage-therapy-for-cancer/ Load More... EVENTS Prokaryotic Seminars will resume in Fall 2022 Virology Seminars will resume in Fall 2022 Microbiology Seminars will resume in Fall 2022 Symposium III: Understanding COVID-19 and Addressing Disparities in Care, 1-5pm, Nov 2, 2021 (All Talks) (sponsored by the Penn Center for Research on Coronavirus and Other Emerging Pathogens) Symposium II: The Developing COVID-19 Epidemic, July 8, 2020 (All Talks) (sponsored by the Penn Center for Research on Coronavirus and Other Emerging Pathogens) Symposium I: The Coronavirus Outbreak, April 3, 2020 (All Talks) (sponsored by the Penn Center for Research on Coronavirus and Other Emerging Pathogens) Search Our Site Search for: Follow Us on Twitter Services Grant Registration Form Reserve a Conference Room Facilities Work Request Calpendo Calendar CONTACT US 215-898-3888 Email Us Join our Listserv LOCATE US Department of Microbiology Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 225 Johnson Pavilion 3610 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6076 Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress