Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs As Harvard community members resume travel, Harvard recognizes that conditions vary regionally and certain travel increases individuals’ risk of COVID-19. Because of that, the University has implemented policies for community members who travel and return to campus. This page details post-travel testing requirements for both vaccinated and unvaccinated community members with an on-campus presence who take a personal or business trip within the US or internationally. This page is not intended for students who are entering campus for the first time, or re-entering after spending time away from campus. For students newly arriving back to campus, refer to the student arrival protocols page. Harvard’s post-travel COVID testing policy may change as the course of the pandemic changes. If you fall into more than one category below, you should follow the more restrictive guidance. If you have questions about the post-travel COVID testing policy, consult your local testing coordinator or Harvard University Health Services. If you traveled domestically Fully vaccinated individuals Get a test on the day of your return to Massachusetts. If you’re enrolled in Harvard’s testing program, you may come to campus to drop a test. Assuming you have no COVID symptoms, it is okay to resume in-person activities, following appropriate masking policies. Unvaccinated individuals Get a test on the day of your return to Massachusetts. If you’re enrolled in Harvard’s testing program, you may come to campus to drop a test. Assuming you have no COVID symptoms and no known exposure to an infected person, it is okay to resume in-person work and academic activities, following masking policies. Until you receive a negative result, avoid unmasked close social activity, including social gatherings and dining with other unvaccinated people. If you traveled internationally Fully vaccinated individuals Follow the U.S. re-entry requirements, which generally require testing 1-3 days prior to returning to the US. Get a test on the day of your return to US. If you’re enrolled in Harvard’s testing program, you may come to campus to drop a test. Assuming you have no COVID symptoms, it is okay to resume in-person activities, following appropriate masking policies. Unvaccinated individuals Follow the U.S. re-entry requirements, which generally require testing 1-3 days prior to returning to the US. Get a test upon return to the US. If you’re enrolled in Harvard’s testing program, you may come to campus to drop a test. Assuming you have no COVID symptoms and no known exposure to an infected person, it is okay to resume in-person work and academic activities, following appropriate masking policies. Test again on day 4 or 5, and again 1 week after arrival. Until you receive a negative result for day 4 or 5, avoid unmasked close social activity, including social gatherings and dining with other unvaccinated people. Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube