Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Faculty Senate Faculty Senate right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Chair & Cabinet Senators Committees right arrow down arrow Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Get Involved right arrow down arrow Meeting Calendar Contact Home » Employees » Faculty Senate » Committees Set Navigation title in component Academic Affairs Budget & Priorities Committee on Committees Governance Human Relations Information Technology Nominating Planning Research & Scholarship All-University Governance Committees Committees There are eight standing committees that have been established by the Faculty Senate. Committes are comprised of faculty members who have been nominated by the faculty and elected by the Faculty Senate. All members of the university faculty (as defined in the University Faculty Bylaws) are eligible to serve. Faculty members participate on these committees to promote the sharing of ideas and opinions from a variety of perspectives. Committee members typically serve two year terms. A committee chairperson is appointed by the chairperson of the university faculty and serves on the Faculty Senate Cabinet. The standing committee structure promotes participative governance and collaborative management of university processes and matters of interest. This model ensures faculty members have the opportunity to share in collaborative decision-making and consensus building to support the achievement of the strategic goals of the University of Cincinnati. 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati 300 USQUARE 225 Calhoun St. Cincinnati, OH 45219 (513) 556-3445 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top