Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Loans » Short Term Loan Set Navigation title in component Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Short Term Loan A UC Short-Term Loan may be available to help with tuition or related educational costs. Under this program a maximum of $2,000 may be borrowed for no more than 90 days. No interest is charged during this 90-day period but there is a $50 processing fee. The University contracts with ECSI to service all loans so students should expect a bill/notice from ECSI within 30 days of the loan posting. Payment should be made, by the due date, to ECSI following the instructions in the notice. Short-Term Loan Application Be advised, that if a loan is not paid back in full within 90 days, a penalty charge of 0.75% per month will be assessed (9% per year), and service blocks will be placed on the students account preventing registration and the receipt of transcripts, grades and diplomas. Requirements You must be a minimum of eighteen (18) years of age. You must be enrolled and matriculated in a degree-granting program carrying not less than six (6) credit hours during the term the loan is requested. You cannot have any past due accounts owed the University. You cannot be on a payment plan in the same term in which a short-term loan is requested. You may not receive loans in consecutive terms. Terms You may borrow up to a maximum of $2,000.00 to be repaid within ninety (90) days. There is a $50.00 application fee, which will be deducted from the amount you have requested. If the loan is not repaid on or before the due date, a service block will be placed on your student account to withhold grades, transcripts and diploma. If your loan is past due, you will not be permitted to register for classes until the loan is paid in full. Process Complete the application and submit it, along with a copy of your valid driver's license or state ID, via an encrypted email to coloffic@ucmail.uc.edu. A copy of your driver's license or state ID is required. Your application will be carefully reviewed by the Bursar's Office. If approved, you will be sent a promissory note via DocuSign, an eSignature platform. The promissory note must be signed and returned via DocuSign. When the loan is credited to your account, if your tuition bill is paid in full, the excess credit will be refunded to you. Short-Term Loan Application Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top