Skip to main content Iowa State University ISEK – Iowa State Engineering Kids Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search About Us ISU College Of Engineering Sponsor & Donate Contact FLL Challenge FLL Challenge Overview Events Getting Started Coaches/Mentors Team Members Volunteers Important Quick Links CARGO CONNECT Season Resources Qualifying Tournament Registration In-Person and Virtual Event Information Event Calendar FLL Explore FLL Explore Overview Events Getting Started Coaches/Mentors Team Members Volunteers Important Quick Links CARGO CONNECT Season Resources Expo Event Registration FLL Explore Remote Events Event Calendar FLL Challenge What Is FLL Challenge? FIRST® LEGO® League Challenge (FLL Challenge) is an international program, created by FIRST® and LEGO®, designed to get children ages 9-14 (grades 4-8) interested in and excited about science, technology and engineering through teamwork, robotics and research. Every year is a new challenge theme that engages the teams in hands-on robotics design and scientific research allowing teams to learn about a variety of subjects. The annual season kicks off in August each year, giving teams about three months to prepare for high-energy, sports-like tournament events held November through January in the areas of robot design, robot game, innovation project and core values. Team sizes range from 2-10 members of youth in grades 4-8 (Have a younger group? Check out FLL Explore!). Teams can form through school, clubs, religious organizations, home school groups or groups of friends. Teams get experience working together while learning about programming a LEGO robotics kit capable of completing tasks autonomously on the robot game playing field, learning about the challenge theme by doing research and creating a presentation around an innovative solution and practicing engineering design skills. Teams will have the opportunity to register for an Iowa Qualifier tournament with other teams. Teams complete three robot rounds to get the best score possible and give a presentation about their innovation project and discuss their robot design and how they worked together as a team. Teams that attend a Qualifier event may advance to the State Championship event at Iowa State University College of Engineering. Teams advancing from the state event may be invited to international events and showcases. Official FLL Challenge Website Start A Team 2021 Event Information Ages 9-14 Team Members 2-10 Events Getting Started Coaches/Mentors Team Members Volunteers Season Calendar August 17: Global Challenge Release October 2021: Iowa Regional Qualifying Tournament Registration November-June: Tournament/Festival Season January 2022: Iowa FLL Challenge Championships FLL Challenge Team Accomplishments Solve a real world problem as you learn! During past seasons, FLL Challenge Teams explored water conservation, space exploration and city planning as they followed the engineering design process. Program and build a robot! Team members create a LEGO robot that can complete the yearly challenge-themed tasks in exhilarating robot rounds! Expand STEM and teamwork skills! Throughout the program teams learn and build a wide variety of skills in science, technology, engineering and tech. Why Should I Join? Build New Skills Studies have shown that robotics activities and competitions like FLL Challenge can successfully promote K-12 student engagement and mastery in a variety of STEM Skills. Increase Creativity FLL teams work together to create a robot that can complete season tasks while adhering to certain constraints. These problems push teams to think outside the box through innovation and creation. Team’s creativity and hard work are displayed to family, friends and professionals at official Iowa FLL Challenge events. Improve Teamwork Skills FLL teams consist of 2-10 students working together towards a common goal. Every student brings their own valuable perspective, skills and ideas to a team. Teammates learn the value of collaboration and how to utilize individual strengths to complete season tasks. Being on a FLL Challenge Team has shown to improve individual skills in teamwork and communication with others. FIRST Core Values Discovery We explore new skills and ideas. Innovation We use creativity and persistence to solve problems. Impact We apply what we learn to improve our world. Inclusion We respect each other and embrace our differences. Teamwork We are stronger when we work together. Fun We enjoy and celebrate what we do! ISEK – Iowa State Engineering Kids Engineering Student Services 1300 Marston Hall 533 Morrill Road Ames, IA 50011 Phone: (515) 294-7186 (800) 262-3810 ext. 7186 Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. CST E-mail: engineer@iastate.edu Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...