Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Health and Medicine Date May 16, 2022 2022-05-16 Media Contact Corrie Pikul [email protected] 401-863-1862 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2022, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage of the festivities, both in-person and virtual. Commencement and Reunion 2022 In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. When Adriel Barrios-Anderson addresses his fellow medical school graduates, it won’t be the first time he’s spoken to his peers at a Brown Commencement ceremony. Five years ago, as a senior orator for the undergraduate Class of 2017, he spoke eloquently about the instructive power of silence. Photos by Nick Dentamaro. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Two years ago — just as the members of this year’s Warren Alpert Medical School graduating class were set to begin the clinical portion of their training — the COVID-19 pandemic arrived, and the hospitals where students were scheduled to train were overwhelmed. The situation has stabilized, but the pandemic isn’t over. Next month, the Class of 2022 will again head into hospitals and medical centers, this time as resident physicians with hard-earned M.D.s. In addition to their formal training and education, this year’s class of new doctors will leave medical school with something unexpected, said class member Adriel Barrios-Anderson. They’ll have gained the resilience and preparation that can come only from the experience of working under trying conditions, in chaotic and often perilous times. “Something that's become really clear over the past couple of years is how uncertain the science of medicine can be, and how uncertain our futures can be, especially as we were thrust into this pandemic,” Barrios-Anderson said. At the medical school’s Commencement ceremony on Sunday, May 29, Barrios-Anderson will deliver a student address titled “Experts in Uncertainty.” He will share his thoughts on how being forged in the crucible of COVID-era training can shape this new generation of doctors. “As we are about to embark on this next step in our careers, I think many of us are feeling a lot of uncertainty around that,” he said. “I hope to first acknowledge those feelings and then inspire members of our class to recognize that being trained in a very uncertain world and as part of a very uncertain health care framework is actually a strength that will help us navigate the future.” An eight-year path toward two Brown degrees Barrios-Anderson moved from Houston to Providence in 2013 to enroll in Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education, an innovative eight-year track through which students earn a bachelor’s degree and M.D. from the University. But his career path wasn’t always so well-defined — as a classically trained violinist, he seriously considered studying music. In high school, Barrios-Anderson played the violin for patients in hospitals throughout the Texas Medical Center in Houston, and was introduced to the world of medicine. He found that he was intrigued by the idea of working in a clinical environment. As patients listened to his playing, he discovered a different kind of music in their personal stories. He started leaning toward a medical career. “I wanted the opportunity to have an education that was expansive, with the goal of becoming more well-rounded as a doctor,” he said. “Being accepted early-decision to Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education felt like a dream come true. It allowed me to study music and explore interests outside of medicine as a part of my journey.” As an undergraduate, Barrios-Anderson took courses in applied music, played violin in the orchestra and started a string quintet that performed in venues around Rhode Island. The focus of his academic interest, though, was the sciences. “Like many Brown students, I ended up finding a whole new area to study,” he said. Barrios-Anderson decided to concentrate in neuroscience and science, technology and society. He participated in research projects in the labs of Barbara Stonestreet, a professor of pediatrics, and Nicole McLaughlin, an assistant professor (research) of psychiatry and human behavior. After earning his undergraduate degree in 2017, the transition to medical school was both a continuation of his education at Brown and yet a completely distinct experience, he said. He continued to participate in neuroscience research and to take courses in the field, and felt enriched by the continuum: “My perspective on what I was studying at the undergraduate level really evolved once I started to get more specific medical knowledge and a better idea of what the clinical world looks like.” During medical school, Barrios-Anderson’s love of the neurosciences and tutelage from professors in the Brown department of neurosurgery, especially Dr. Deus Cielo, Dr. Adetokunbo Oyelese and Dr. Ziya Gokaslan, led him pursue a specialty in neurosurgery. "I’m in awe of how my peers — and med students around the country — continued their education through a time that was very trying and at times very dangerous. And as a result, I think we're going to be much better doctors." Adriel Barrios-Anderson 2022 M.D. graduate Barrios-Anderson also appreciated his deepening relationships with the students in his PLME cohort, who were transitioning to challenging medical courses alongside him. The rigorous curriculum meant that there wasn’t as much time to explore new topics or to study or play music, which he admitted took some adjustment. But he still found time to volunteer with Clínica Esperanza, a nonprofit that provides free medical care to uninsured adults in Rhode Island. With peers as well as Dr. Tina Burton, a Brown professor of neurology, he helped establish a neurology specialty clinic at Clínica Esperanza. The specialty clinic has now served more than 80 people in the in the Providence community who are primarily Spanish-speaking, many of whom are also undocumented, and for whom neurologic specialty care is not always accessible. “This is one of the things I’m most proud to have been involved with during my time in medical school,” Barrios-Anderson said. The drive and dedication of the Brown students who volunteer with providers like Clínica Esperanza are emblematic of the medical school overall, he said. “Starting in our first year, we learned about social injustice and how inequities in our world manifest as health inequities,” Barrios-Anderson said. “Brown students are particularly interested in doing something about those inequities. And the culture of the medical school is one that strongly encourages engagement and involvement with the community here in Providence. I hope that spirit is something I bring to my practice as a physician.” And with his M.D. on the horizon in a matter of weeks, that practice will soon begin as Barrios-Anderson heads to the University of Washington to begin a residency in neurological surgery. Commencement address, part two When Barrios-Anderson stands at the podium on graduation day, it won’t be the first time he’s addressed his peers at a Brown Commencement ceremony. Five years ago, as one of two student orators for the undergraduate Class of 2017, he spoke eloquently about the instructive power of silence, and the importance of paying attention to the pauses and gaps between sounds. Barrios-Anderson said he is honored to have been selected by his peers again this year, this time to deliver an address at the medical school ceremony. The only similarity between the two talks, he said, is that they were both inspired by reflections on four years of education. He has long kept a journal, and during medical school, students were often encouraged to engage in reflective writing. His upcoming address will look back on what he and his peers have been through, and how those experiences will propel them forward. As he’s been finalizing his remarks, his classmates have been at the front of his mind. “I’m in awe of how my peers — and med students around the country — continued their education through a time that was very difficult, very trying and very dangerous at times,” Barrios-Anderson said. “And as a result, I think we're going to be much better doctors for it.” Tags Commencement Warren Alpert Medical School Related news: Health and Medicine Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers May 23, 2022 Elizabeth Samuels, an assistant professor at the Warren Alpert Medical School, and medical student Aneeqah Naeem argued for federal action supporting harm reduction centers such as those authorized in Rhode Island. Read Article Open details for Brown physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for overdose prevention centers Health and Medicine ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition May 3, 2022 The Warren Alpert Medical School’s Class of 2024 celebrated together at an in-person white coat ceremony that was held two years later than usual, but still felt timely. Read Article Open details for ‘This was our moment’ — medical students embrace non-traditional timing for long-standing white coat tradition Health and Medicine Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future April 29, 2022 Members of the Warren Alpert Medical School community, including graduates from classes ranging from 1972 to 2022, gathered to commemorate the history and look to the future of Rhode Island’s first and only medical school. Read Article Open details for Celebrating 50 years of medicine at Brown, by honoring the past and embracing the future Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2022, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage of the festivities, both in-person and virtual. Commencement and Reunion 2022 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Open details for In student address, medical school graduate to reflect on finding strength in uncertainty Bookmark this Page