Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Academics Courses & Enrollment Academics Majors & Minors Graduate & Professional Programs UH Faculty Colleges & Departments Libraries & Learning Resources Courses & Enrollment Steps to Enroll myUH Class Schedule Enrollment Schedule Enrollment FAQ Final Exam Schedules Policies & Procedures TCCNS Updates Online and Special Programs Academic Forms Courses & Enrollment Many of the resources you need to enroll in classes each term are available in these pages. You may want to start with our Steps to Enroll. Can’t find what you are looking for? Check out our Enrollment FAQs for answers to common questions, visit the Welcome Center to speak with a staff member who can help guide you, or contact us! Enrollment Resources Enrollment Schedule You can view your enrollment appointment in your myUH student center. Prior to enrolling in a class, please check the Graduate Catalog and Undergraduate Catalog for course requisite(s) information. Undergraduate Catalog The Undergraduate Catalog is where you find important information regarding academics, enrollment, courses, core curriculum, policies, and more. The catalog is an important resource for undergraduate students, refer to it often. Graduate Catalog The Graduate Catalog is where you can find important information regarding academics, enrollment, courses, core curriculum, policies, and more. The catalog is an important resource for graduate students, refer to it often. Class Schedule The Class Schedule lists courses available each term. You can use the Class Schedule to plan your class load and schedule each term. Core Curriculum All baccalaureate degrees from the University of Houston require completion of the core curriculum. You must satisfy the credit hour requirements in all 10 categories. Enrollment FAQs This is a list of commonly asked questions and informative answers about admissions, adding and dropping courses, enrollment, myUH, fee payment, financial aid, email, parking, transcripts, and more. Policies & Procedures Policies and Procedures regarding enrollment govern both student and university actions. They help everyone work cooperatively toward the common goals of education and degree completion. Undergraduate and Graduate Academic Advising You are not expected to figure out your degree path on your own. Academic advisors are available to help you understand and plan your college career. Related Links myUH Academic Calendar Undergraduate Academic Advising Graduate Academic Advising Learning Abroad University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies