Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Menu Main Nav Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Contact Back Back Close About Overview Diversity & Inclusion Contact Dean of Law School Search Academics & Research Overview Accreditation Information Assessment BCPEP Grants and Awards University Council on Teaching Tam/Tame Details University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events Faculty Openings Faculty Resources Overview Faculty Annual Report Guide Faculty Recruiting Expense Reimbursement Guidelines Sabbaticals New Faculty Information New Faculty Moving Expenses Faculty Openings Documents & Reports Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Academics & Research University Fellowships Committee University Fellowships Committee Undergraduate Research Support Fellowships and Scholarships Fulbright U.S. Student Program Events University Fellowships Committee The mission of the Boston College University Fellowships Committee is to support undergraduate research and to encourage and assist Boston College undergraduates in competing for the most notable of undergraduate and graduate fellowships and scholarships—the Rhodes, Fulbright, Marshall, Churchill, Truman, and many others. These prestigious fellowships are not only rewarding in themselves, they can open up opportunities and grant a distinction that could transform your life. Earning one of these fellowships requires planning and preparation. That's where we are here to help. With the advice and assistance of the University Fellowships Committee, we can get you well on your way. Even if you are now a freshman, it is not too early to seek guidance. And if you are a sophomore, junior, or senior, there are fellowships you can apply for right now! Whether you are looking to apply for undergraduate or postgraduate scholarships, study abroad fellowships or any similar programs, this is the place to start! Jason Cavallari, Ph.D. Administrative Director of University Fellowships UFC Contacts Jason Cavallari, Ph.D. Administrative Director of University Fellowships Stokes Hall S140 jason.cavallari@bc.edu University Fellowships Committee ufc@bc.edu Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Provost and Dean of Faculties Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3260 provostoffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College