Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Political Science Menu Search TTU Political Science Department of Political Science News February 26th, 2022- A panel of TTU Russian and Ukrainian specialists discusses the current situation in Ukraine. They cover the history of Ukraine, its relationship with Russia, and the greater implications of Russia's attack on the sovereign nation of Ukraine. Participants: Kyle Rable, Graduate Student in History & Panel Host Dr. Alan Barenberg, History Dr. Erin Collopy, CMLL Dr. Eric Hammersen, Institute for Peace and Conflict Dr. Anthony Qualin, Classical & Modern Languages & Literatures Dr. Frank Thames, Political Science March 16th, 2021- TTU Department of Political Science has been ranked as the third school nation-wide in the “Top 10 Online Bachelors in Political Science! From here, It's possible! The Department of Political Science at Texas Tech University (TTU) would like to invite students with significant research potential and interests in Political Science or Public Administration to apply to our Masters and PhD programs. For more information or to view our Study Political Science flyer. • Dr. Timothy Nokken, Department Chairperson of Political Science, explains the benefits of getting a Political Science degree in today's economy: • Dr. Mark McKenzie, the Director of Graduate Studies for the Department of Political Science, explains why students should choose Texas Tech for their graduate degrees in Political Science: • Pablo Hernandez, Ph.D. student at the Department of Political Science, explains why he chose TTU for his career: Study Political Science! Degree & Programs The Political Science department supervises the following degree and certificate programs: Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Bachelor of Arts - Master of Arts in Political Science Master of Arts in Political Science Master of Public Administration Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science Graduate Certificate in Strategic Studies Bachelor of Arts in Global Studies Minor in International Studies Dual Degree Programs Master of Public Administration / Doctor of Jurisprudence The department also participates in both the Latin American and Iberian Studies program and the Russian Language and Area Studies program leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree; a minor in women's studies; Honors College programs; and Arts and Sciences minors in urban studies, international studies, ethnic studies, Asian studies, and religion studies. Fellowships and Stipends Available The Department of Political Science will be awarding a Helen Jones Graduate Fellowship for a new PhD student beginning with the Fall 2016 semester. This Fellowship is for $5000 for three years (total = $15,000) and is intended to recruit a new PhD student to the program. The Department of Political Science will be awarding a Graduate Recruitment Fellowship for a new PhD student beginning with the Fall 2016 semester. This Fellowship is for $4000 for four years (total = $16,000) and is intended to recruit a new PhD student to the program. The Department of Political Science has set the stipend level for incoming students for the Fall 2016 semester at $13,000 for 9 month TA assignments. We will also be able to award up to 2 stipends of $16,500 to recruit exceptional students. The Department will also have the ability to hire several online graders with a $10,000 stipend for 9 months. All TAs and Graders will also receive a tuition waiver that covers most of the costs of tuition. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Name *email *Message Captcha Verification Submit Reset Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Department of Political Science Like Department of Political Science on FacebookLike Department of Political Science on Facebook Follow Department of Political Science on twitterFollow Department of Political Science on twitter Address Dept. of Political Science, Texas Tech University, 113 Holden Hall, Boston & Akron Streets, Lubbock, TX 79409-1015 Fax: 806.742.0850 Phone 806.742.3121 Email pols.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 26, 2022 3:23 PM Department of Political Science About Department of Political Science About Back Events Strategic Plan People Department of Political Science About People Back Faculty Staff Hire a TTU PhD Faculty Research Job Postings Department of Political Science About Job Postings Back Please check back later as new jobs are posted The Center for Public Service Alumni Department of Political Science About Alumni Back Distinguished Alumni Stay in Touch POLS Worldwide eLearning Department of Political Science POLS Worldwide eLearning Back eLearning Faculty/Staff Online Courses Regional Site Program Advising & Contact Information For Students Department of Political Science For Students Back Prospective Students Department of Political Science For Students Prospective Students Back Advising Scholarships Graduate Undergraduate TTU Undergraduate Moot Court Team Current Undergraduate Students Department of Political Science For Students Current Undergraduate Students Back Advising FAQs Scholarships Major / Minor Requirements Courses Important Dates Student Resources Red Raider Orientation Form Current Graduate Students Department of Political Science For Students Current Graduate Students Back Advising Current Ph.D Students Hire a TTU PhD Placements Courses Program Information Important Dates Student Resources Financial Aid Pi Sigma Alpha Department of Political Science For Students Pi Sigma Alpha Back About Membership Program & Awards Global Studies Public Administration Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index