Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Student Life Date March 18, 2021 2021-03-18 Media Contact Jessica Tabak [email protected] 401-863-1632 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Feel Good Fridays, other student events create opportunities to socialize safely in-person The spring event series, which invites students to engage in a different COVID-safe activity each week, is part of a University-wide push to create more in-person campus events for students. 1 of 4 About a thousand students participated in a Brown Build-a-Bear event held on campus March 12. The event was the most recent installment of Feel Good Fridays, an in-person activity series designed with attention to pandemic health and safety guidelines. All photos by Nick Dentamaro. 2 of 4 Students lined up to receive their Brown Build-a-Bear kits in a carefully spaced queue that spanned the entire College Green. 3 of 4 A student picks up her Build-a-Bear kit at the Feel Good Friday event held March 12. 4 of 4 Students chose from a variety of teddy bear kits at the Brown Build-a-Bear event held March 12. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — When María Guerrero Martínez recalls the social interactions she would have on the Brown campus before COVID-19, their spontaneity is what strikes her the most. “I remember going to the Ratty and running into someone and sometimes just spending the next couple hours in a great conversation,” said the Brown senior, who is concentrating in biochemistry and molecular biology. Guerrero Martínez hadn’t realized just how much she missed chance exchanges like this — which, in light of necessary health and safety precautions, have dwindled during the pandemic — until she attended last week’s installment of Feel Good Fridays, an in-person series organized by the University’s Student Activities Office and the Office of the President that invites students to engage in a different COVID-safe activity during select weeks throughout spring term. This week, about a thousand students came over the course of the three-and-a-half-hour event — forming in a carefully spaced queue as they arrived — to receive individually packaged Brown Build-a-Bear kits, which they assembled with their podmates in socially distanced circles on the green. Guerrero Martínez lingered long after her bear had been made, enjoying the sunshine and serendipitous conversations (behind masks and at safe distance) with friends walking by, many of whom she hadn’t seen in person since the pandemic began. “ It’s a space where people can unexpectedly see each other and bring back those organic interactions that we’ve lost because of COVID. ” María Guerrero Martínez Class of 2021 Tweet this quote Students joined podmates in socially distanced circles on the green. “It’s a space where people can unexpectedly see each other and bring back those organic interactions that we’ve lost because of COVID,” she said. “It was so nice to lose track of time — I remember coming home and thinking I couldn’t remember the last time that had happened.” The idea for Feel Good Fridays was born through discussion of an Undergraduate Student Campus Experience Working Group, which convened initially last fall to plan safe on-campus activities for students. The series launched in February to provide students with regular opportunities to interact socially through activities carefully designed to accord with current public health guidelines, said Joie Steele, associate dean and director of the Student Activities Office. “Coming together in person is critical for forming connections, so we’ve always wanted to hold in-person events for students once we knew we could do so safely,” she said. “When the state’s public health guidelines opened up a little bit, we made it a priority to create opportunities for students to connect socially in a safe way.” Each event is planned with careful attention to ensuring the health and safety of all student participants and staff organizers. Activity materials — such as last week’s Build-a-Bear kits and cookie decorating kits distributed at the series’ Valentine’s Day event — are individually packaged, allowing students to grab and go quickly and eliminating the need for communal supplies. Students wear masks at all times, participate in their activities with podmates in circles mapped at safe distance from each other on the College Green, and maintain 6 feet between themselves and anyone who is not in their pods. Dining Services created heart-shaped cookie decorating kits for a Valentine's Day themed installment of Feel Good Fridays. The events are part of a larger push for Brown faculty and staff to propose in-person activities for students while public health guidelines allow, Steele said. There have been a range of events thus far this term, all reviewed by a committee to ensure they meet public health requirements, including a t-shirt giveaway for first-years students and Van Wickle Gates walkthroughs in February and March that welcomed new students to Brown. Upcoming events include an end-of-the-year celebration for graduating international students sponsored by the Global Brown Center and in-person lunches with Vice President for Campus Life Eric Estes, who will host students in his backyard. Steele hopes that the success of Feel Good Fridays inspires even more faculty and staff to propose in-person activities — and even more students to share their ideas for future events. “At our current campus activity level, there are probably a lot of university- and department-sponsored activities that we had to hold virtually this fall that we could begin holding in-person again," she said. "I look forward to working with faculty and staff to shift back to increased engagement on campus." In the meantime, students like Grace Johnson, a junior neurobiology concentrator, will continue to enjoy the serendipity that Feel Good Fridays allow. “One of my favorite parts of being at Brown is spending time on the green, so getting to see everyone together last Friday, but in their distanced groups, was really special,” said Johnson, who served with Guerrero Martínez on the working group that inspired Feel Good Fridays. “Seeing the sun starting to set over the Hay and the Rock while sitting next to one of my friends — it felt as close to what it had been as it can get for now.” Tags Campus Life COVID-19 Related news: Student Life Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics April 20, 2022 For 10 years, a student-run organization has taken to the air, delighting audiences with circus-inspired performances on trapeze, aerial silk, lyra and more. Read Article Open details for Photos: Defying gravity with Brown Aerial and Acrobatics Student Life Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community November 8, 2021 Brehan Brady — a self-described working-class kid from Pawtucket who transferred to Brown from the Community College of Rhode Island — joins other student veterans in forging a new path after their military service. Read Article Open details for Pawtucket native, U.S. Army veteran combines Brown education with service to community Student Life For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities November 4, 2021 With classroom experiences across the Open Curriculum and support from the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship, Perez built on her own experiences to launch EmpowerU, a startup that connects low-income students to higher education resources. Read Article Open details for For senior Elvia Perez, an entrepreneurial approach to tackling educational disparities Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Feel Good Fridays, other student events create opportunities to socialize safely in-person Open details for Feel Good Fridays, other student events create opportunities to socialize safely in-person Bookmark this Page