Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Assistive Technology and Alternate Format Materials (eText) Assistive Technology and Alternate Format Materials (eText) Assistive technology is any item, software, hardware, or equipment used to increase, maintain, or improve the functional capabilities of people with disabilities. Assistive technology may be provided as a reasonable accommodation for students whose disabilities affect their ability to access information and products. You must first register with Disability Services to apply for eligibility for accommodation. Who Uses Assistive Technology? Students with physical, learning, and psychological disabilities, chronic medical conditions, traumatic brain injuries, and ADHD, as well as students who are deaf or hard-of hearing or students who are blind or have low vision—all use assistive technology. Additionally, students with temporary injuries may use assistive technology during their recovery. Registration and Eligibility Students not registered with Disability Services: If you have a disability and believe that you could benefit from accommodations involving assistive technology or alternative formats or other accommodations, fill out a registration form. Students registered with Disability Services and approved for accommodations: Once you are approved as eligible for accommodation, talk with your coordinator, who will work closely with the assistive technology specialist to provide you with any necessary materials. Students registered with Disability Services but not approved for accommodations: If you are interested in using alternative formats or assistive technology, fill out a Request for Supplemental Accommodations form. Your coordinator will review your eligibility for the aforementioned accommodations. Faculty and Staff: If you are interested in using assistive technology or alternative formats as an accommodation, contact Hana Bloch in Human Resources at [email protected]. Assistive Technology Available Through Disability Services Alternate format materials Reading and writing software Screen magnification software Voice recognition software Video magnifiers Braille translation software Screen-reading software Disability Services often lends assistive technology to students who are approved for such devices. The assistive technology specialist can answer questions about how to borrow and train to use the equipment. The assistive technology specialist works with students, faculty, and staff on: Assessments, demonstrations, and introductory training for specific technologies Referrals for assistive technology instruction or comprehensive training Trouble-shooting and technology assistance Students already registered with Disability Services should schedule an appointment with the assistive technology specialist. Alternate Format Materials (eText) Alternate format is a form of assistive technology and refers to the conversion of textbooks or other reading materials (such as class notes, articles, or magazines) into a format other than standard print. Such materials may be provided as a reasonable accommodation for students with print-related disabilities, including visual and reading disabilities, or physical disabilities that make it difficult to carry or hold standard reading material. Alternate formats available through Disability Services include large print, eText (structured PDF or Word format), audio file, and Braille. Students who are approved for textbooks in alternate format are responsible for requesting this accommodation prior to the start of each semester. Disability Services recommends that students inform the office of their needs at least five weeks in advance of the new semester, as alternate format materials must be requested from publishers. Reading Lists for Classes To obtain reading lists for classes before the semester begins: Log in to CourseWorks to obtain the required readings from each syllabus as soon as possible. If the syllabus is not available there, contact the professor directly or check with the Columbia University Bookstore. If the reading list is unavailable at the bookstore, the student’s accessibility services coordinator will assist in obtaining the reading list so that alternative formats can be requested. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close