By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate International First-Year Checklist More from this Section Syracuse Program in Partnership with Wells College: Information for International Students Transfer Checklist FAQ Support Services Stories Enrollment Options Requirements Application Checklist for First-Year International Students Use this checklist if you will be an incoming first-year student and are not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States. Syracuse University has a long tradition of welcoming international students to its campus, and we're eager to continue expanding the cultural diversity of our student population. To be considered for admission to Syracuse University, international students must: Demonstrate sufficient academic preparation to achieve success in their studies at Syracuse Demonstrate the ability to pay for all educational expenses Demonstrate proficiency in the English Language Checklist Follow these steps to complete your application: 1. Complete the Online Common Application Link Begin your application or review our Common Application FAQs. 2. Pay the application Fee ($85) Link 3. Submit your official academic credentials Link Ensure that all your transcript/academic credentials are submitted by mail. Please review our credentials requirements for more details. Any items submitted by mail should be sent to the appropriate mailing address. 4. Submit two academic recommendations Link 5. TOEFL or IELTS required (if English is not your native language) Link In addition, we will consider results of the Cambridge English Language Assessment and PTE Academic for English proficiency. The SAT/ACT is optional for some international students; for more information, see English proficiency requirements. 6. Complete and submit a Visa/Financial Support Information Form Link Complete the form 7. Check to see if your college requires any additional materials Link View our college-specific application requirements. 8. Submit SAT/ACT scores (Optional) Link The SAT/ACT is optional for international students studying outside the U.S. and currently enrolled in a school that does not follow the American system of education. Although we do not require the SAT or ACT to be considered for admission, we encourage all students to submit scores if available. Syracuse University does not require the SAT II subject tests. Note: Prospective Division I student athletes must take the SAT or ACT in order to meet NCAA eligibility requirements. 9. Review all Visa and immigration information. Link See our international student requirements. For Early Decision Applicants Only If you'll be applying to Syracuse University under Early Decision, you must complete and submit the Early Decision Agreement through the Common Application or complete the ED Agreement and submit by mail , fax to 315.443.3423 or email to orange@syr.edu . As an ED candidate, you agree to enroll at Syracuse University if admitted to your preferred college. You may apply to other colleges and universities through regular decision with the understanding that you will withdraw these applications if admitted to Syracuse University. For Discovery Program Applicants Only If you are applying to the College of Arts and Sciences | Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs or the College of Engineering and Computer Science and wish to be considered for the Discovery Florence, Madrid, or Strasbourg first-semester study abroad programs, you must indicate this on the Common Application. Due to visa application requirements, students applying to a Discovery Program for the fall 2022 semester must be at least 18 years of age by July 1, 2022. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy