Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Media & Communication Menu Search Texas Tech Emergency Communications Center: Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information College of Media & Communication Apply Now! Join our Red Raider Family. Undergraduate Graduate Communication is essential to every successful industry, government agency, nonprofit and start up. Current Students Prospective Students Parents Explore our Programs ADV Advertising COMS Communication Studies CMI Creative Media Industries DMPC Digital Media & Professional Communication JOUR Journalism MDST Media Strategies PRSC Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management My Adventure. My Degree. #MyCoMC College News Dean's Student Ambassadors The Dean's Student Ambassadors are a group of high-achieving enthusiastic students chosen each year to represent the College of Media & Communication. [Read more about Dean's Student Ambassadors.] Read the latest college news... Read online news for alumni and friends of Texas Tech University College of Media & Communication. [Read the latest news.] Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Interested in working here at CoMC? Click the link below to see what positions we have open! Join Our Team The College of Media & Communication is more than just an institution. I am constantly amazed by the faculty and staff, and their mission to create outstanding students and professionals. I am so proud to be involved in an environment that truly feels like family. Curry Wilson Albany, Texas Public Relations The College of Media & Communication incorporates a wide array of topics into the curriculum that are pertinent to everybody no matter their status in life. Our college analyzes topics that are both new and old creating a versatile prospective for our graduating students. Being involved with the Dean's Ambassadors creates opportunities and relationships that will propel future careers. Collin Edwards Round Rock, Texas Advertising The College of Media & Communication is like no other college on campus. It's more than a community, it's a family and I can't wait to see where my CoMC family takes me! Michael Gray Roscoe, Illinois Advertising Being from a small town, I was nervous about how I would mesh at a big university. I learned quickly I was in the best place possible for me at CoMC. The college itself is like a tight-knit community and feels like a home away from home. Most staff members have worked in their designated industries and give a real-life insight that has made my learning experience the best. I know my degree from CoMC will take me anywhere I dream! Nydia Natividad Pecos, Texas Journalism The College of Media & Communication has shown me that it is possible to love your school and major. There are so many wonderful opportunities at the reach of your hands that this college can provide for you. From the professors to the staff, everyone is there to make sure you reach those goals that you have set for yourself. Olu Okororie Dallas, Texas Media Strategies The College of Media & Communication has truly fueled my desire to learn. The classes are applicable to the real world and to the future careers we may choose. The professors have a true passion for teaching and have brought to light the many opportunities and doors our degrees can open for us. Taylor Stewart Ramona, California Communication Studies Contact ContactContact Contact Contact Guns Up!Guns Up! Apply HeartHeart Give Double TDouble T Visit College of Media & Communication Like College of Media & Communication on FacebookLike College of Media & Communication on Facebook Follow College of Media & Communication on twitterFollow College of Media & Communication on twitter Subscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTube Follow College of Media & Communication on InstagramFollow College of Media & Communication on Instagram Connect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedInConnect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University, Box 43082, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.6500 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 5, 2022 5:06 PM College of Media & Communication New Students College of Media & Communication New Students Back I've been accepted to TTU! College of Media & Communication New Students Back Help me get started Register for orientation Take a virtual tour Prospective Students College of Media & Communication New Students Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply to TTU Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities How to apply College of Media & Communication New Students Back Apply to Undergraduate Apply to Graduate Programs & Majors College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Back Undergraduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Undergraduate Programs Back Undergraduate Programs Home Apply Now! Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Certificates Minors Graduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Graduate Programs Back Graduate Programs Home Apply Now! Ph.D. Program M.A. Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Faculty Graduate Student Resources Financial Aid College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Financial Aid Back Scholarships M.A. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Ph.D. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Students & Faculty College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Back Prospective Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities Current Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Current Students Back Current Students Home Study Abroad Careers & Internships Technology Recommendations Student Organizations Basics of Writing Exam Student Work Gallery Advising College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Advising Back Advising Home Red Raider Orientation Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Virtual Schedule Builder Faculty & Staff College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Faculty & Staff Back College Directory Intranet New Technology Request Email Technology Support About College of Media & Communication About Back Our College College of Media & Communication About Our College Back Employment About Our College Departments & Centers Our Building History & Future Our Facilities College Events Strategic Goals Virtual Tour Our People College of Media & Communication About Our People Back Diversity College Directory Faculty & Staff Resources National Advisory Board Dean's Student Ambassadors Publications College of Media & Communication About Publications Back College Publications College News The MC Magazine Contact Us College of Media & Communication About Contact Us Back Contact Us 806.742.6500 comc@ttu.edu Alumni & Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Back Alumni College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Alumni Back Alumni Home Alumni Updates Pioneers of TAB Hall of Fame Outstanding Alumni Wall Tiles Lectureships College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Lectureships Back Morris Lectureship Buesseler Lectureship Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Giving Back Give to the College Ways to Give Scholarships Research College of Media & Communication Research Back Research College of Media & Communication Research Research Back Research Home Research Areas Research Faculty Center for Communication Research College of Media & Communication Research Center for Communication Research Back Center for Communication Research Home Participation Staff Facilities Services Offered Outpost Social Media Lab College of Media & Communication Research Outpost Social Media Lab Back Outpost Social Media Lab Home About Insights Projects Resources HIHIC College of Media & Communication Research HIHIC Back HIHIC Home About Advisory Board Affiliates TTU International Film Series Useful Links Employment Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index