COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Physics, Minor MinorPhysics All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Mathematics, Statistics and Physics A minor in physics from Wichita State will give you a basic background in the study of matter, energy and their interactions. The minor is a great addition to any science, engineering or math major. Learn how physics is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program WSU group is part of a huge global science project As a physics student, you might have the opportunity to take part in once-in-a-lifetime projects. Wichita State is playing a key role in the creation of the Long-Baseline Neutrino Facility in Illinois and the Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment in South Dakota, massive global science labs involving more than 1,000 scientists and engineers from around the world. It's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the students working on the project alongside WSU professors. Together, they're working on particle physics computer simulations to support the international project. Curriculum To complete the 16-credit-hour minor, you'll choose from two core options: A: General College Physics I & II B: Physics for Scientists I & University Physics Lab I You'll also select from six additional credit hours of upper-level physics courses based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A degree in physics from Wichita State opens doors to a variety of graduate programs and professional schools—leading to high-paying, high-demand careers in fields such as university teaching, public and private scientific research, government, health care and more. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Physics Engineering Technology - Civil Engineering Technology Computer Science Mathematics Philosophy Mechanical Engineering 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©