Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Jane C. Ginsburg Morton L. Janklow Professor of Literary & Artistic Property Law Full-time Faculty Education Doctor of Law, Université de Paris II, 1995 D.E.A., Université de Paris II, 1985 J.D., Harvard Law School, 1980 M.A., University of Chicago, 1977 B.A., University of Chicago, 1976 Areas of Study Intellectual Property and Technology Areas of Specialty Domestic and International Copyright and Trademarks Law Legal Methods The faculty director of Columbia’s Kernochan Center for Law, Media, and the Arts, Jane Ginsburg is a renowned authority on intellectual property law and a staunch defender of authors’ rights. She teaches and writes about copyright law, international copyright law, legal methods, and trademark law; she is the author or co-author of casebooks on all four subjects including International Copyright: U.S. and EU Perspectives (with Edouard Treppoz) and Copyright: Cases and Materials (9th edition) (with Robert A. Gorman and R. Anthony Reese). Ginsburg was a co-reporter for the American Law Institute’s Principles of the Law, Intellectual Property: Principles Governing Jurisdiction, Choice of Law, and Judgments in Transnational Disputes. Fluent in French and Italian, Ginsburg has been a visiting professor at law schools and universities in France and Italy as well as in Australia, England, Israel, and New Zealand. She is a vice president of the Association Littéraire et Artistique Internationale, a Paris-based international organization created to promote and defend authors’ rights, and president of its U.S. chapter. She is an elected member of the American Philosophical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy. Publications September 2020 Cambridge University Press The Cambridge Handbook of International and Comparative Trademark Law The trade in goods and services has historically resisted territorial confinement, but trademark protection remains territorial, albeit within an increasingly important framework of multilateral treaties. Trademark law therefore demands that practitioners, policy-makers, and academics understand principles of international and comparative law. This handbook, edited by Ginsburg and Irene Calboli, professor of law at Texas A&M University School of Law, contributes to that understanding by describing and analyzing international and regional frameworks and providing comparative perspectives on the substantive issues in trademark law and related fields, such as geographic indications, advertising law, and domain names. View a list of Jane C. Ginsburg’s publications. Honors and Awards Doctor honoris causa, University of Neuchatel, Switzerland 2020 Life Member, American Law Institute 2016 American Bar Association Section on Intellectual Property Mark T. Banner Award 2015 Elected member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences 2015 Inductee, ChIPS IP Hall of Fame 2015 Elected member, American Philosophical Society 2013 Corresponding Fellow, British Academy 2011 2008 IP Hall of Fame inductee 2008 Download Full CV Related News and Stories Read All Stories More in The Press In The Press Thaler Loses AI-Authorship Fight at U.S. Copyright Office Jane C. Ginsburg | IP Watchdog In The Press Could Donald Trump’s Truth Social Be Sued by Twitter? Jane C. Ginsburg | Newsweek In The Press Who Owns the 3D Scans of a Famous Venetian Church? Jane C. Ginsburg | Hyperallergic Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.