Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Registrar Academic Advising Academic Ceremonies Academic Ceremonies Fall Rotunda Passage May Commencement Opening Convocation December Rotunda Recessional December Commencement Spring Rotunda Passage Honors Convocation May Baccalaureate Service May Rotunda Recessional May Commencement Degree Honors Degree Honors Inserts Graduation & Diploma Services About Us Academic Records Academic Records Degree Honors Enrollment Rules Honor Roll Progress Grades Viewing Your Grades GPA Calculator Graduation Honors Inserts Transcript Requests Transfer Credit Legal Process Enrollment Information Enrollment Information Fall Enrollment Information Spring Enrollment Information Summer Enrollment Information Master of Science in Data Science Program Waitlist Guidelines Common Curriculum Online Course Evaluation Course Listings Help Enrollment Policy Exception Frequently Asked Questions Final Exam Schedule The General Education Curriculum Grade Posting Schedule University Curriculum View Textbooks Online Contact Us Contact Us Virtual Office Information SMU Links SMU Links Site Index About SMU Access and Equity Administration Bursar Calendars Campus Directory Clery Report Enrollment Services Financial Aid Giving Libraries Maps Meadows Museum Information Technology Registrar Search Student Affairs Webmail ☰ Calendars and Course Catalogs Academic Calendars Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2019-2020 This calendar includes an addendum listing religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, contact the Office of the Chaplain. Graduate programs in the Cox School of Business, Perkins School of Theology, Dedman School of Law, and Research and Graduate Studies have different calendars. A comprehensive schedule of holiday dates listing when the University is closed will be announced at a later date. Fall Term 2019 August 26 - December 21, 2019 April 8–26, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for fall 2019 continuing students for all undergraduates and for graduates in Dedman College, Lyle and Meadows. May, July, August (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214- 768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. August 24, Saturday: Residence halls officially open at 9:00 a.m. August 25, Sunday: Opening Convocation, McFarlin Auditorium. August 26, Monday: First day of classes. August 30, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in December. September 2, Monday: Labor Day. University offices closed. September 9, Monday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. September 11, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. October 1, Tuesday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. October 4-5, Friday-Saturday: Family Weekend October 14-15, Monday–Tuesday: Fall Break. October 16, Wednesday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before November enrollment. October 27, Sunday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. November 4, Monday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. November 4–22, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2020 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. November 8, Friday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). November 8-9, Friday-Saturday: Homecoming Weekend November 14, Thursday: Last day for December graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. November 18, Monday: Students should file for May graduation. The last day to file is January 24, 2020. November 26, Tuesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. November 27, Wednesday: No classes. November 28–29, Thursday–Friday: Thanksgiving holiday. University offices closed. December 4–9, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. December 5, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for December graduate degree candidates. December 9, Monday: Last day of classes. December 10-11, Tuesday-Wednesday: Reading days. December 12-18, Thursday–Wednesday: Examinations. (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). December 19, Thursday: Residence halls close at 10:00 a.m. for winter break. (December graduates should contact the Department of Residence Life and Student Housing). December 20, Friday: December Rotunda Recessional. December 21, Saturday: December Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. December 23 – January 1, Monday – Wednesday: University closed. December 25, Wednesday: Christmas Day. January Term 2020 December 19, 2019 – January 16, 2020 The January Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas January Session and SMU-in-Taos January Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the January Term, December 19, 2019 – January 16, 2020 with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. January 1, Wednesday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. Dallas January Session 2020 Note: Classes meet six hours per day, Monday through Friday. See Intersessions website for specific class information. January 5, Sunday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. Last day to file for graduation in January Term. January 6, Monday: First day of classes. January 6, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 9, Thursday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 13, Monday: Reading Day. January 15, Wednesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 16, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of the term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos January Session 2020 NOTE: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. January 2, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record. January 2, Thursday: Student travel/arrival. January 3, Friday: First day of classes. January 6, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. January 9, Thursday: Last day for January Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. January 14, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). January 15, Wednesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Travel Day. January 16, Thursday: Unofficial Taos Travel. Spring Term 2020 January 17 – May 16, 2020 November 4–January 24, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for spring 2020 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. TBA - January: Residence halls officially open at 9:00a.m. January (TBA): Academic Advising, Enrollment and Orientation conferences for new first-year and transfer undergraduate students. Conference dates to be announced. More information about AARO is available from the Office of the Student Experience, Student Affairs, 214- 768-4560, https://www.smu.edu/studentaffairs/newstudent. January 1, Wednesday: New Year’s Day. University offices closed. January 10, Friday: Spring Rotunda Passage. January 17, Friday: First day of classes. January 20, Monday: Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. University offices closed. January 24, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without tuition billing while remaining enrolled for the term. Last day to file for graduation in May. January 31, Friday: Last day to drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). Last day to withdraw from the university without academic record (withdrawal refund schedule applies). See Bursar’s website for more information. February 4, Tuesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Also, last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. February 24, Monday: Early intervention grades due for first-year undergraduate students. March 6, Friday: Last day for continuing undergraduate students to change their majors before April enrollment. March 16-22, Monday-Sunday: Spring break. March 24, Tuesday: Midterm grades due for first-year and sophomore students. March 31, Tuesday: 60 percent point of the term that federal financial aid has been earned if a student officially withdraws from SMU; prior to this date a partial calculated return to federal programs will be required. April 6-24, Monday–Friday: Enrollment for summer 2020 and fall 2020 continuing students for all undergraduates and graduates in Dedman College, Lyle, Meadows and Simmons. April 7, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). April 10, Friday: Good Friday. University offices closed. April 12, Sunday: Easter Sunday. April 13, Monday: Last Day for May graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. April 13, Monday: Honors Convocation, 5:30 p.m. April 22, Wednesday: Students should file for August or December graduation. Last day to file for August graduation is June 4. Last day to file for December graduation is the last day to enroll for fall 2020. April 24, Friday: Last day to withdraw from the University. April 29-May 4, Wednesday–Monday: No final examinations or unscheduled tests and papers. April 30, Thursday: Last day for oral/written examinations for graduate students who are May degree candidates. May 4, Monday: Last day of classes. May 5, Tuesday: Reading Day. May 6–12, Wednesday–Tuesday: Examinations (No examinations scheduled for Sunday). May 13, Wednesday: Residence halls officially close for non-graduating students. May 15, Friday: Baccalaureate. May 16, Saturday: May Commencement Convocation. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. May 17, Sunday: Residence halls officially close for graduating seniors. May Term 2020 May 14 – 29, 2020 The May Term consists of two primary sessions: Dallas May Session and SMU-in-Taos May Session. Each primary session has different deadline dates. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the May Term, May 14 - 29, 2020 with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas May Session 2020 Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. May 14, Thursday: First day of classes. May 14, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 22, Friday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 25, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. May 26, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 29, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. SMU-in-Taos May Session 2020 NOTE: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. May 13, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2–6 p.m. May 14, Thursday: First day of classes. May 14, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in May Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. May 22, Friday: Last day for May Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. May 26, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). May 29, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. May 30, Saturday: Travel Day. Summer Term 2020 June 1 – August 4, 2020 The summer term consists of four primary sessions: Dallas Full Session, Dallas First Session (June), SMU-in-Taos First Session, and Dallas Second Session (July). Each primary session has different deadline dates. There are also four shorter sessions within the first and second sessions. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the Summer Term, June 1 – August 4, with unique start, end, deadline dates, and class meeting times to accommodate the particular needs of the course. Dallas Full Session Note: Classes meet 2 hours, 15 minutes twice a week or 1 hour, 30 minutes three times a week. May 25, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Monday: First day of classes. June 4, Thursday: Last day to enroll, add courses, or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to file for August graduation. June 10, Wednesday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 3, Friday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 16, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 23, Thursday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 29, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 4, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas First Session (June) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. May 25, Monday: Memorial Day. University offices closed. June 1, Monday: First day of classes. June 2, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. Last day to file for August graduation. June 16, Tuesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 23, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). June 24, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. June 30, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August 4, Tuesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. June A (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 1, Monday: First day of classes. June 1, Monday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 10, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 15, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June B (11-day June Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. June 16, Tuesday: First day of classes. June 16, Tuesday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. June 25, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 30, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. SMU-in-Taos First Session NOTE: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. (Regular Session) June 2, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 3, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 3, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Thursday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 8, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 11, Thursday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 16, Tuesday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 18, Thursday: Last day of classes, including examinations. June 19, Friday: Departure of students. August 4, Tuesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. (Field Session) June 2, Tuesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. June 3, Wednesday: First day of classes. June 3, Wednesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. June 4, Thursday: Last day to file for August graduation. June 8, Monday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. June 16, Tuesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. June 25, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). June 30, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July 1, Wednesday: Departure of students. August 4, Tuesday: Official close of term and conferral of degrees. Dallas Second Session (July) Note: Classes meet 2 hours a day, Monday–Friday. June 4, Thursday: Last day to file for August graduation. July 3, Friday: Independence Day observed. University offices closed. July 6, Monday: First day of classes. July 7, Tuesday: Last day to enroll, add courses or drop courses without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. July 9, Thursday: Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. July 14, Tuesday: Last day for August graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. July 27, Monday: Last day to drop a course (grade of W). July 29, Wednesday: Last day to withdraw from the University. August 4, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. July A (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 6, Monday: First day of classes. July 6, Monday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 15, Wednesday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). July 20, Monday: Last day of classes, including examinations. July B (11-day July Session) Note: Classes meet four hours per day, Monday through Friday. July 21, Tuesday: First day of classes. July 21, Tuesday: Last day to add/enroll and to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. July 30, Thursday: Last day to drop/withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 4, Tuesday: Last day of classes, including examinations. August Term 2020 August 6 – 21, 2020 The August Term consists of one primary session: SMU-in-Taos August Session. Some areas of instruction may offer a limited number of selected courses during the August Term, August 6 – 21, 2020 with unique start, end, and deadline dates to accommodate the particular needs of the course. SMU-in-Taos August Session Note: Permission of SMU-in-Taos required for all enrollments. August 5, Wednesday: Travel day and arrival of students, 2-6 p.m. August 6, Thursday: First day of classes. August 7, Friday: Last day to enroll, add a course, or drop a course without academic record (tuition charges apply). See Bursar’s website for more information. Last day to declare pass/fail or no credit grading options. Last day to file for graduation in August Term. Last day to request an excused absence for the observance of a religious holiday. August 14, Friday: Last day for August Term graduation candidates to change grades of Incomplete, and to obtain a final grade for a grade of X or a missing grade from a previous term. August 20, Thursday: Last day to drop a course or withdraw from the University (grade of W). August 21, Friday: Last day of classes, including examinations. Official close of term and conferral of degrees. August 22, Saturday: Travel Day. Major Religious Holidays August 2019-August 2020 Listing of religious holidays for use in requesting excused absences according to University Policy, Excused Absences for University Extracurricular Activities and Religious Holidays. For religious holidays not listed, the instructor or supervisor may contact the Office of the Chaplain. Christian Christmas December 25, 2019 Good Friday April 10, 2020 Easter Sunday April 12, 2020 Easter Sunday (Orthodox) April 19, 2020 Hindu Janmashtami August 23, 2019 Dasera October 7, 2019 Diwali October 27, 2019 Jewish* Rosh Hashanah September 30, 2019 Yom Kippur October 9, 2019 Sukkot/Simchat Torah October 14-15, 2019 Hanukkah December 23, 2019 Purim March 10, 2020 Pesach (Passover) April 9-10, 2020 Shavuot May 29, 2020 Muslim Eid al Adha August 12, 2019 Islamic New Year August 31, 2019 Ashura September 10, 2019 Mawlid an Nabi November 10, 2019 Ramadan April 24, 2020 Eid al Fitr May 24, 2020 *All holidays begin at sundown before the first day noted and conclude at sundown on the day(s) noted Academic Calendars Academic Year 2022-2023 Academic Year 2021-2022 Academic Year 2020-2021 Academic Year 2019-2020 Academic Year 2018-2019 Academic Year 2017-2018 Academic Year 2016-2017 Academic Year 2015-2016 Academic Year 2014-2015 Student Quicklinks my.SMU Request Transcript Course Catalog Final Exam Schedule University Curriculum Student Records Forms Preferred Name Honor Roll Important Messages to Students Student Appeals and Petitions Student Rights and Responsibilities Syllabus Library Transfer Credit/Equivalency Webpay Master of Science in Data Science Program Faculty/Staff Quicklinks my.SMU Enrollment Reporting Final Exam Schedule Forms Library: SR Forms (Public) Forms Library: SR Forms (Restricted) Important Messages to Faculty Policies and Procedures [Login] SR Policies & Procedures View all DES P&P Procedures- New Course/Prog Room Scheduling Syllabus Library Enrollment and Scheduling - Advanced Users Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share