Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Information Technology Services Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Get Help IT Portal System Status News Newsroom Email Newsletter Resources For Students For Employees Computer Requirement MFA Outdoor Wi-Fi Remote Work Projects Adobe Acrobat Sign Azure Server Migration Campus Email Storage@ISU WorkCyte Website Teams Digital Accessibility Research Security About About ITS Staff Directory Employment Our Culture Strategic Plan Annual Report Project Overview With nearly every operation on our computers and other electronic devices, information is accessed, files are created, and data is stored. And with each of these actions, electronic file storage is needed to save the changes, store the files or print the results. Over the last 12 months, both Box (known as CyBox) and Google have announced changes to their file storage services and capacity provided to Iowa State. Because of the changes to these two large service providers, the Storage Advisory Committee, along with campus IT staff, is seeking your input. Our goal is to provide the best file storage tools, not only Box and Google, but for all uses. This project, Storage@ISU, has been broadened and a thorough study of data storage needs by all — students, faculty, staff and researchers will be conducted. With this information, a comprehensive plan for electronic data storage can be implemented. Contact ITS at storage@iastate.edu or reach out to your local IT professional for assistance throughout this project. Back to top Project Update To better understand electronic file storage use at Iowa State, a Storage Advisory Committee has been formed to complete a needs assessment and assist in development of a comprehensive data storage plan for the university. All faculty, staff, students and researches are encouraged to follow these best practices to ensure adequate storage needs are met: Remove personal or non-work/class related items from university storage devices. Deleting obsolete, duplicate, or out-of-date files. Implement a data management plan. Back to top Project Details Previous information on this site has been archived in the timeline listed below. Back to top Schedule & Timeline October 1, 2021 Survey complete. July 1, 2021 The Storage Advisory Committee, along with IT units, launches a survey to collect information from faculty, staff, students and researchers. January - June 2021 The concentrated efforts (between November 2020 and June 2021) to decrease the amount of storage on Box have been successful. By working together, the use of CyBox at Iowa State University has gone from 1.8 PB to 0.793 PB, exceeding the goal of 1.2 PB. No data quotas will be instituted for individual or existing college/unit CyBox data. ITS and college/unit IT professionals communicate with individuals regarding their CyBox usage. All CyBox customers are encouraged to perform regular file reviews and remove obsolete, duplicate or out of date files. December 14, 2020 ITS and college/unit IT collaborate with customers to reduce data and explore file storage options, such as OneDrive. December 4, 2020 New sponsored Net-IDs will, by default, have no access to CyBox. Exceptions can be requested, but approved Net-IDs will have a zero (0 GB) quota and will not be able to store any data in the sponsored Net-IDs CyBox account. They will only be able to store data in college/unit accounts. New secondary Net-IDs will have a zero (0 GB) quota and will not be able to store any data in the secondary Net-IDs CyBox account. They will only be able to store data in college/unit accounts. December 3, 2020 Broad communication delivered to the campus community with information of the upcoming changes. Back to top Frequently Asked Questions What if Iowa State University isn't able to reach 1.2 petabytes of data on Box by June 30, 2021? ISU will be billed for all overages at the rate of $130/terabyte/year. That expense will be allocated to the parent unit of an individual for individual overages or the parent unit of a college/unit for college or unit overages. How can I find out how much CyBox space I am currently using? Find out how much data you have stored on CyBox by following the Review your CyBox Storage summary instructions. Please note: An issue has been identified and reported to Box that may impact the accuracy of the individual storage data total visible to you on Box. When you follow the instructions in the knowledge article linked above, the resulting total usage number may not be entirely accurate. Customers are welcome to continue their planned clean up of their CyBox folders. We appreciate your patience and understanding as we work with Box to resolve this issue. For more information, please review the Storage Usage Or File Count In My Account Is Incorrect article available on the Box support website. What can I do to help reduce the use of CyBox to help ISU meet the 1.2 PB quota? Individuals are encouraged to review their files and delete obsolete, duplicate, or out-of-date files. Removing personal or non-work/class related items from their CyBox account can help you reduce your usage of Box as well. After performing a clean-up of your CyBox account consider utilizing OneDrive or Google Drive to store your individual data. These services are available to all Iowa State University students, faculty and staff at no additional cost. Are there guidelines for using Google Drive and OneDrive for individual data? Individual data is appropriate for CyBox, OneDrive or Google Drive. To determine the right storage tool for you and begin a manual migration of your data, please view the following knowledge articles available on the IT Portal. Microsoft OneDrive: Getting Started Google Drive: Getting Started Migrate from CyBox to Microsoft OneDrive or Google Drive Will you provide instructions on how to migrate my content? Some customers may find it difficult to reduce their use of CyBox by removing unnecessary, obsolete or duplicate files alone. If you are interested in migrating your individual data to another cloud storage tool, resources are available to help you through the process. To determine the right storage tool for you and begin a manual migration of your data, please view the following knowledge articles available on the IT Portal. Microsoft OneDrive: Getting Started Google Drive: Getting Started Migrate from CyBox to Microsoft OneDrive or Google Drive If you are having difficulty migrating content or have questions, please contact the project team at storage@iastate.edu. Will you provide a migration tool to help migrate content out of CyBox? Customers interested in migrating their individual data from CyBox to Microsoft OneDrive can now request a managed migration to save time and internet bandwidth. To request a managed migration, please complete the Request Managed Migration to OneDrive service request available on the ISU Service Portal. Migrations have some limits that customers should be aware of: Content shared with non-ISU partners will *not* be automitcally re-shared post migration. This is for security reasons and you will need to re-share manually after the migration is complete. Document versions do *not* transfer. Only the latest version will migrate to OneDrive. Comments do *not* transfer. NOTE: This is only referring to Box comments, i.e. comments added to files in the Box web interface. Changes to comments made within software like Microsoft Word will be included in the file if they are present in the latest version. Migrations are incremental and you will be contacted prior to starting the first migration, when the first migration has started, and then again to schedule a time for the final migration. Please note: This migration is a COPY and not a move of data. All of your data will stay in CyBox throughout the entire process so there is zero risk of data loss. Customers can delete their data from CyBox once testing is complete ensuring files are migrated and accessible from Microsoft OneDrive. Should we or should we not use OneDrive for college/unit data? The decision is up to the college/unit, but our official position will be to continue recommending CyBox for college/unit data and only consider switching to OneDrive if your entire college/unit is switching to OneDrive. We will continue to discourage having data in two locations. Isn’t this going to introduce fragmentation in cloud storage? It is not believed that individuals choosing their own storage location represents a concern for fragmentation, but standardizing the college/unit storage location supports business continuity. What about Google Drive for college/unit data? Google Drive does not offer the same level of integration and administration capabilities that CyBox and OneDrive offer. If CyBox will not work for your college/unit, ITS recommends OneDrive as the second option and not to use Google Drive for college/unit data. How will the 0 GB quota be applied to affiliate, secondary and role Net-IDs? Starting Friday, December 4, 2020, all new affiliate and role accounts are not able to access Box by default. Current affiliate, secondary and role account owners who are using CyBox to store content are encouraged to perform a file review and reduce their use of CyBox. If an individual's unit/college owns a unit or college shared folder, migrating content to those folders is also a viable option. Targeted communications will be sent to current affiliate, secondary and role account currently storing data on CyBox. These emails will include guidance on how to reduce the usage of Box, and how to migrate files to unit/college Box folders or away from Box entirely (OneDrive/Google Drive). The date by which ITS will set the 0 GB quota on all existing affiliate, secondary and role accounts is to be determined. Back to top Project Overview Project Update Project Details Schedule & Timeline Frequently Asked Questions Information Technology Services 271 Durham Center Ames, IA 50011 Submit Website Feedback Need tech support? IT Solution Center 192 Parks Library Ames, IA 50011 solution@iastate.edu 515-294-4000 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information