Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Priority Awards » Critical Language Scholarship Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Critical Language Scholarship The Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) Program is a summer study abroad opportunity for American college and university students to learn languages essential to America’s engagement with the world. Each summer, students spend eight to ten weeks abroad studying one of 15 languages that are critical to America’s national security and economic prosperity. CLS participants are citizen ambassadors, sharing American values and promoting American influence abroad. The CLS Program is part of a U.S. government effort to expand dramatically the number of Americans studying and mastering critical foreign languages. Students of diverse disciplines and majors are encouraged to apply. Participants are expected to continue their language study beyond the scholarship period, and later apply their critical language skills in their future professional careers. CLS plays an important role in preparing students for the 21st century’s globalized workforce and increasing national competitiveness. This award does not require university endorsement. However, we strongly recommend that you work closely with NCA as you prepare your application. Deadlines National Deadline: November 2022 Award Details right arrow down arrow The CLS Program offers instruction in fifteen critical languages: No previous study required in Azerbaijani Bangla Hindi Indonesian Persian Punjabi Swahili Turkish Urdu One Year of Study Required in Arabic Korean Portuguese Russian Two Years of Study Required in Chinese Japanese The CLS Program covers most of the costs of participating in its overseas institutes, including: International and domestic travel between the student’s U.S. home city, Washington, D.C., and the CLS Program site Visa application fees Costs associated with the mandatory pre-departure orientation in Washington, D.C. Language instruction, room, board, program-sponsored travel within the host country All entrance fees for program activities Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) language assessments U.S. academic credit issued through Bryn Mawr College. The following expenses will not be covered by the CLS Program: U.S. passport fees; and The cost of medical exams and any follow-up visits necessary to pass the medical review process, as determined by the CLS Program. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria To apply, you must: Be a U.S. citizen or national at the time of your application. Be enrolled in an accredited U.S. degree-granting program at the undergraduate (associate's, bachelor's) or graduate (master's, doctoral, professional degree) level at the time of your application. You must be enrolled at this institution in the fall term of your application year. Limited exceptions apply. If in an undergraduate program (bachelor's or associate's), complete at least one full year of study (two semesters or three quarters) by the beginning of the CLS Program in summer 2020. You may only apply once, for one language program, each summer. Applicants who submit multiple applications will be considered ineligible. Participation is limited to a total of two CLS awards for any individual. Applicants who have been selected for and participated in the CLS Program one time can apply for a second award. Applicants who have successfully completed the CLS Program two or more times are not eligible. Please refer to the CLS website for a more detailed list of the eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria Award recipients will be selected on the basis of merit with consideration for: Academic record and potential to succeed in a rigorous academic setting; Commitment to language learning; Connection between target language and career/academic goals; Ability to adapt to an intensive program and a challenging cultural environment; and Contributions to the CLS Program and program goals. Please carefully review the detailed descriptions of the selection criteria on the CLS website. Application Components right arrow down arrow Transcripts Short-answer essays (4) Personal Statement Recommendation forms (2) You can view a sample application form here. How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend an NCA Learning Series session on the Critical Language Scholarship Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Launch your online application (application opens mid-September) NCA is available starting early- to mid-October to provide feedback on CLS essays. We are happy to obtain official transcripts free of charge for any student who requests one from us no later than two weeks prior to the national deadline. Complete and submit application by National Deadline Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Watch the online information session and the application tips video offered by the CLS program. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official CLS website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the CLS website takes precedence. Though you should seek out others’ advice and feedback on your application, the essays should be your original work (no one should be writing your essays for you). UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Kylie Boyer - Scholar, Korean, 2022. Adam Elzarka - Scholar, Arabic, 2022. Lily Stiefel - Scholar, Japanese, 2022. Andrew Van Dyke - Scholar, Russian, 2022 (declined). Nicholas Marx - Scholar, Swahili, 2021 (declined). Gordon Goodwin - Scholar, Arabic, 2019. David Moore - Scholar, Japanese, 2019. Alexandra Pasqualone - Scholar, Arabic, 2019. Stacy Grover - Scholar, Chinese, 2018. Related Awards right arrow down arrow If you're interested in language learning opportunities, you may want to explore these other options, too: The U.S. Department of State has launched a new website to serve as a resource for information on language scholarships and training programs offered by the federal government, available now at https://language.state.gov. With the launch comes a message to the U.S. higher education community from the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Academic Programs at the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs Caroline Casagrande. Download a PDF of her statement. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top