Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today taking care of our community helping agencies This directory is a comprehensive set of programs that support and enhance the physical, spiritual, social, and mental walks of life for our military, cadets, cadet candidates, DoD civilians, family members, and retirees. These services encompass employment, education, and transition assistance; fitness and nutrition; child care; emergency assistance; counseling and victim support. The Air Force strives to provide reliable access to safe, quality care for all that we serve. To learn more, click here. Airman and Family Readiness Center Behavioral Health Optimization Cadet Nutrition Cadet Fitness Center/ Human Performance Lab Cadet Wing Chaplains Combating Trafficking in Persons Community Center Chaplains Equal Opportunity Office Family Advocacy First Sergeants Health Promotions Inspector General Complaints Resolution Mental Health Clinic Military Family Life Counselors Military OneSource Peak Performance Center Sexual Assault Prevention Suicide Prevention Airman and Family Readiness Center Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) serves as a one-stop information and referral center, ensuring military personnel and their families are connected with the appropriate services both on and off-base. Their direct services include emergency assistance, baby preparation, car care, child care, new spouse acculturation, resume writing and career planning, relocation assistance, financial counseling and support, transition assistance, school liaison, exceptional family member support, and casualty assistance. They serve all military members (including Guard and Reserve) and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, and retirees. They provide limited services to DoD civilians and contractors, but can refer them to appropriate off-base agencies. To learn more about their services, click here. For support, call 719-333-3444 or email 10FSS.FSH.AFRC@us.af.mil. They operate in Building 6248 West Pine Loop Dr. and are open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. back to top Behavioral Health Optimization Program The Behavioral Health Optimization Program (BHOP) consists of licensed and trained behavioral health providers who can assist when habits, behaviors, or emotional concerns begin to interfere with daily life. BHOP is embedded within the 10th Medical Group, works directly with your Primary Care Manager (PCM) and is not associated with Mental Health Clinic. You can be scheduled with the BHOP clinic in several different ways. Your PCM team can coordinate an appointment, you can self-refer, and walk-ins can be seen (depending on availability). The BHOP offers brief, solution-focused behavioral health interventions for many different conditions. The Internal Behavioral Health Consultant (IBHC) is a licensed and trained clinical provider who provides interventions to promote overall health, quality of life, and wellbeing. The IBHC focuses on symptoms that may be interfering with your current functioning and helps you develop a plan to address these symptoms and improve your life. IBHCs can help with a wide variety of concerns, such as: Anger, Anxiety, Depression, Grief, Chronic Medical Conditions, Parenting, Insomnia, Relational Problems, Stress, Smoking Cessation, and Weight Management. IBHC appointments are 30 minutes in length and you meet with the IBHC on a short-term basis (about 1 to 4 appointments). All IBHC documentation is part of your medical record and no mental health record will be created. The Behavioral Health Care Facilitator (BHCF) is a registered nurse with specialty training in care management. The BHCF helps patients who are starting or continuing on medications prescribed by their PCM for management of depression, anxiety, and/or Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). The BHCF will contact you by phone to assess your symptoms and if your medications are working effectively. BHCF documentation is also part of your medical record and no mental health record will be created. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets, and retirees. To learn more, call 719-333-5283. back to top Cadet Nutrition A Registered Dietitian and Diet Technician support an extensive nutrition program for the Cadet Wing to help cadets reach their overall dietary goals. They are committed to meeting the nutritional needs of cadets through assessment, education, and implementation of proper nutritional practices. One-on-one counseling is provided for weight loss, weight gain, eating disorders, sports nutrition, dental soft/liquid diets (when indicated), special dietary needs, and overall healthy eating. Their services also include group nutrition education to athletic teams, squadrons, and cadet clubs. They are located in the Mitchell Hall Annex, Room 2017 are open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. To speak with a Dietitian, call 719-333-3663. back to top Cadet Fitness Center and Human Performance Lab Exercise physiologists and certified fitness specialists in the Cadet Fitness Center (CFC) and Human Performance Lab (HPL) provide services, consultation and activities to enhance fitness, performance and health. The CFC staff designs inpidualized fitness plans, oversees recreation climbing (M-Th, 1530-1830) and group exercise classes. The Human Performance Lab (HPL) offers services and consultation to improve performance/health through application of sports science to include Body Composition Testing, Resting Metabolic Rate Test, and Maximal Oxygen Uptake. They serve all cadets and are located in the Cadet Gym. To reach CFC, call 719-333-1343. To reach HPL, call 719-333-7732. back to top Cadet Wing Chaplains While chaplains ascribe to various faith traditions, they serve all military members regardless of religious preference or no religion at all. In addition to offering religious programs, chaplains counsel on a wide range of issues to include stress, relationships, life transitions, suicide, sexual assault, grief and many others. Information shared with a chaplain is treated with absolute confidentiality, offering privileged communication of personal matters without chain of command notification. They serve all cadets, military members and their dependents. To speak with a chaplain, call (719) 333-2636. In addition to their offices in the 4th floor of the Sijan Tower T-Zo Level, chaplains and religious affairs airman are assigned to each of the four Cadet Groups with offices in Sijan and Vandenberg Halls open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. For after-hours emergencies, call 719-333-2633. back to top Combating Trafficking in Persons It’s a crime to be involved in any form of trafficking in persons, including patronizing a prostitute which is punishable under Article 134 UCMJ. If you believe you have witnessed a trafficking operation or believe a person is being trafficked, you should report that information to your chain of command, Security Forces, OSI or IG. Call 719-333-2000 or e-mail OSI at afosi.det8082@us.af.mil. For more information, visit the DoD CTIP website. back to top Community Center Chaplains Community Center chaplains are responsible to promote spiritual fitness through religious rites, pastoral care, religious education, retreats, music programs, community service projects, and confidential counseling and after-hours care. Their staff compassionately and professionally responds to assist the inpidual and/or family to help meet the spiritual and religious needs of our USAFA community and assist any who find themselves in a crisis. Their interventions can include inpidual, marital and relationship counseling, parenting skills, anger management, stress management, grief issues, and other practical tools and techniques for similar type of needs. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD civilians, contractors and retirees. To speak with a chaplain, call 719-333-3300. They are located in the Community Center and are open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. For after-hours emergencies, call 719-333-2633. back to top Equal Opportunity Office Equal Opportunity Office (EO) is responsible for educating all USAFA personnel, dependents, and retirees on our policies regarding discrimination based on race, color, sex, national origin, and religion. DoD Civilians may also file additional discrimination complaints based on age, disability, genetic information, and reprisal. Military members can also file harassment complaints. They promote an environment free from personal, social, or institutional barriers that prevent USAFA members from rising to the highest level of responsibility possible. They also advocate for Alternative Dispute Resolution as prescribed by the EEOC. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD civilians, retirees, and applicants for AF/NAF positions. They are unable to provide direct services to contractors, but can refer them to appropriate off-base agencies. They are located at 8034 Edgerton Drive, Suite 100 with a satellite office at 2348 Sijan Drive, Suite 2A12. To schedule an appointment, call 719-333-4258. back to top Family Advocacy Program Family Advocacy Program (FAP) is responsible to promote healthy relationship education, prevention and intervention for cadets and cadet candidates to address any concerns of intimate partner violence. When any form of domestic violence (child and/or adult) occurs, FAP compassionately and professionally responds to assist the cadet to provide the appropriate intervention in restoring and sustaining healthy and productive personal relationships. Their interventions can include inpidual and couples therapy, anger management, stress management, and other similar type of services. They serve all active duty military members and their dependents, including cadets and cadet candidates. They are unable to provide direct services to DoD civilians, retirees and contractors, but can refer them to appropriate off-base agencies. They are located in the Community Center and are open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. To schedule an appointment, call 719-333-5270. back to top First Sergeants First sergeants derive their authority from the commander and advise commanders, command chiefs, and other enlisted Airmen on morale, discipline, mentoring, well-being, recognition, and the professional development of all personnel assigned to the unit. First sergeants provide a dedicated focal point for all readiness, health, morale, welfare, and quality of life issues within their organizations. They ensure support agencies are responsive to the military community’s needs. At home station and in expeditionary environments, their primary responsibility is to build and maintain a mission-ready force to execute home station and expeditionary mission requirements. First sergeants provide support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD civilians and retirees. All personnel assigned to USAFA are represented by a First Sergeant within the respective organizational structure below. E-MAIL PHONE Cadet Wing First Sergeant 719-333-0034 or 719-237-4096 (after-hours) 10 ABW Staff/MSG/FSS/CS/CES 719-333-6764 or 719-322-1955 (after-hours) 10 MDG/MDOS/MSGS/MDSS 719-333-5944 or 719-440-5255 (after-hours) 306th FTG Superintendant 719-333-3310 or 719-237-3463 (after-hours) HQ USAFA DRU Staff/DF/AD 719-333-8303 or 719-502-7168 (after-hours) 10 SFS 719-333-8425 or 719-337-6513 (after-hours) 10 AMDS/DS 719-333-5894 or 719-338-2701 (after-hours) USAFA Preparatory School 719-333-9332 or 719-375-4111 (after-hours) back to top Health Promotions Program Health Promotions Program (HPP) is responsible for the promotion, coordination and evaluation of specific evidence-based interventions that support healthy behavior change(s) to make healthy living the default lifestyle choice at USAFA. They provide ways to improve and maintain healthier lifestyles through physical activity, tobacco free living and healthy eating education. They offer many perse wellness programs to include diabetes management, fitness education, healthy heart program, nutrition education and community outreach, meal planning, and guidance to prevent and/or treat chronic diseases. They provide services to inpiduals/groups on diet-related concerns such as weight loss, cholesterol/hypertension reduction, blood sugar control, pregnancy, and childhood nutrition. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, and retirees. They are unable to provide direct services to DoD civilians and contractors, but can refer them to appropriate off-base agencies. They operate within the 10th Medical Group and are open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. For support, call 719-333-3733. back to top Inspector General Complaints Resolution Inspector General (IG) Complaints Resolution system used throughout the total force is based on the concept that IGs serve as an extension of their commander by acting as his/her eyes and ears to be alert to issues affecting the organization. IGs primarily serve their commanders and their assigned organizations both by executing the complaint resolution process and by proactively training all members of the organization about IG processes and fraud, waste, and abuse (FWA) issues. A successful complaint resolution program is designed to enhance the organization‘s discipline, readiness, and war fighting capability. IGs use fact-finding methodologies to seek out systemic issues affecting the organization Complaints help commanders discover and correct problems affecting the productivity and morale of assigned personnel. Resolving the underlying cause of a complaint may prevent more severe symptoms or costly consequences, such as reduced performance, accidents, poor quality work, poor morale, or loss of resources. Be the eyes and ears of the commander; be alert for and inform the commander of matters indicative of systemic, morale, or other problems impeding efficiency and mission effectiveness. Keep the commander informed of potential areas of concern as reflected by trends based on analysis of complaint data. Function as the ombudsman, fact-finder, and honest broker in the resolution of complaints. They serve all military members and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD civilians and retirees. To learn more, file a complaint, or report fraud, waste and abuse, call 719-333-3490, option 1. back to top Mental Health Clinic The USAFA Mental Health Clinic provides comprehensive mental health services to cadets. Their staff compassionately and professionally responds to assist the inpidual with the appropriate intervention(s) in restoring and sustaining psychological health, resiliency and productive personal and/or family relationships. Their services can include inpidual, and/or group therapy to address a wide variety behavioral health concerns. They serve cadets and cadet candidates, active duty service members, with limited availability for other military dependents and retirees. Schedule a confidential appointment by calling 719-333-5177. The Mental Health Clinic is located in the Community Center and is open Monday through Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. back to top Military Family Life Counselors Military Family Life Counselors (MFLCs) are licensed professional counselors, marriage and family therapists, social workers, or psychologists who provide confidential, non-medical and short-term counseling support to active duty service personnel and their dependents as well as cadets, and cadet candidates. They support a range of issues including: relationships, crisis intervention, stress management, grief, academic challenges, performance improvement, occupational and other individual and family issues. Confidential face-to-face counseling is available both on and off base by appointment or walk-in. No referral is needed and no records are kept. MFLCs have experience with the questions and concerns of military life, many of them are veterans, spouses and National Guard or Reserve Component members. Additionally, all counselors receive ongoing training on military matters and military life. They serve all military members, cadets and cadet candidates, and their family members. They are unable to provide direct services to DoD civilians or contractors, but can refer them to appropriate off-base agencies. MFLCs are on call from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. To speak with a counselor, cadets can call 719-360-4896 or 719-246-6802. For the Preparatory School, cadet candidates can call 719-466-0453. back to top Military OneSource Military OneSource is a DoD program that provides confidential help and comprehensive information on a broad range of topics, including money management, college life issues, relocation, deployment, reunion, etc. They can also include more complex issues like couple and relationship issues, family concerns, stress and grief, etc. Sooner or later, we all face life challenges. When you or someone you know is struggling to cope, help is just a phone call or a few keystrokes away. Confidential help is available over the phone and online. Military OneSource staff members have experience with the questions and concerns of military life, many of them are veterans, spouses and National Guard or Reserve Component members. Additionally, all consultants receive ongoing training on military matters and military life. Cadets, military members and their families can access services from anywhere in the world by calling 1-800-342-9647 or by visiting militaryonesource.mil. Military OneSource is accessible by phone or online 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. back to top Peak Performance Center The Peak Performance Center (PPC) is the lead embedded program for maximizing performance in the psychological, academic, social, and physical domains used to enhance wellness, resilience, and normalize help-seeking for future Air Force leaders. The PPC staff is comprised of Licensed Clinical Social Workers, Psychologists, and Enlisted Behavioral Health Technicians with specialized certifications. We are uniquely positioned to help cadets overcome the unique developmental, personal and military challenges they face at the Academy. From personal issues and USAFA stressors, to physical and mental performance enhancement, the PPC helps cadets work toward solutions and help prevent daily stressors from becoming overwhelming or debilitating. The PPC is open Monday through Friday with four embedded locations in both dorm buildings, serving each Cadet Group, as well as an office in the Athletic Department. To schedule an appointment, call (719) 333-2107 or send your Cadet Group representative a Teams message. back to top Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) is a DoD program to respond to reports of sexual assault and provide outreach, education and training to help prevent incidences of sexual assault. The SAPR offices are staffed by a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) and SAPR Victim Advocates (SAPR-VA) who are specially trained to provide these services. The SARC and SAPR-VAs can discuss reporting options; restricted (confidential) or unrestricted (not confidential, investigated, information only given to ‘need to know’) and provide support and resources as requested by victims. SAPR staff provide 24/7 response and advocacy to victims of sexual assault no matter when the incident occurred. Advocacy is not counseling. It refers to providing support, resources and referrals as needed to help victims of assault. Assistance can range from a referral for counseling, or medical assistance bed rest (cadets), legal assistance including the Special Victims Counsel (which is confidential and available for both restricted and unrestricted reporting options), and many other types of support. They serve all military members, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD Civilians, and family members 18 years of age and older. If you are a victim of sexual assault, immediate and confidential help is available 24/7 by calling the USAFA Crisis Hotline at 719-333-7272 or the DoD Safe Helpline at 1-877-995-5247. For administrative purposes, call 719-333-5389. back to top Suicide Prevention and Military Crisis Line If you’re a Service member in crisis or know someone who is, the free Military Crisis Line, online chat, and text-messaging services provide confidential support 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. The Military Crisis Line is staffed by caring, qualified responders from VA—many of whom have served in the military themselves. They understand what service members have been through and the challenges members of the military and their loved ones face. It’s important to remember crisis feels different for everybody and can be caused by a wide range of situations before, during, or after military service. Some service members are coping with stress, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, or challenges faced during civilian life while others may experience difficulties in their relationships or transitioning back to employment or education. Whatever’s got you down, whether it is chronic pain, anxiety, depression, relationships, sleeplessness, anger, or even upsetting memories of your tour of duty, a Military Crisis Line responder can help. For immediate help, call 1-800-273-8255 or text 838255. They serve all military members (including Guard and Reserve) and their dependents, cadets and cadet candidates, DoD civilians and retirees. back to top ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.