Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Along Fifth Street>Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors School of Music master’s candidate Cezary Karwowski, a native of Bialystok, Poland, claimed first place in the 2022 Music Teachers National Association Young Artist Piano Competition in March. He was selected from seven division winners, who first had to win at the state level. Karwowski became the first Baylor student to win at the state level in November 2021. He then defeated state winners from Arkansas, Louisiana and Oklahoma in the MTNA South Central Division competition. Karwowski, who began playing piano at age 7, will complete his Master of Music in performance studies this spring and aspires to be a professional concert pianist. He also plans to pursue a Doctor of Musical Arts in the United States. Karwowski is a student of Bradley Bolen, D.M.A., who has been senior lecturer in piano at Baylor since 2000. “This means a lot to me, especially because of the national recognition I have received and the amount of preparation and work I put in,” Karwowski said. “I am very proud to represent Baylor, and I am grateful to be a small part of Baylor history.” Karwowski also was one of three soloists and one chamber group from Baylor’s School of Music who were winners of the University’s fifth-biennial Semper Pro Musica Solo and Chamber Competition. The soloists and chamber group will perform May 25-26 at Carnegie Hall’s Weill Recital Hall in New York. Tickets are available online at carnegiehall.org and day-of-performance at the door. Master’s candidate Sylvia Jones, a soprano vocalist from Auburn, Washington, and Max Winningham, a double bassist from Houston, joined Karwowski as the soloist winners. Baylor’s Fest Quartet, winner of the chamber competition, is comprised of violist Freya Downey, a performance studies master’s candidate from Norman, Oklahoma, and three senior applied music majors: violinists Darren Carter from Dallas and Elise Maas from San Antonio, and celloist Samuel Day from Benton, Wisconsin. It was Jones’ first time participating in a competition like Semper Pro Musica, and her win was a historic moment for her family. “My grandmother grew up in Waco but was not allowed on campus because of segregation at the time,” Jones said. “It is incredible that one of her grandchildren is walking in places where she could not. To think about the number of great performers who have performed at Carnegie Hall is humbling. I am grateful to God for this opportunity.” Baylor School of Music Dean Gary Mortenson, D.M.A., said Weill Recital Hall, where nearly all Carnegie Hall debuts take place, arguably has been the world’s most important recital venue for the past century. “There are no words to fully describe the thrill to walk into one of the most historically important halls in the world and perform,” Mortenson said. “New York City — like London and Paris — is at the top of the cultural/artistic world. The experience of performing there is an experience like no other in the world of music today.” The Semper Pro Musica Organ Competition finals, held March 21, included Laura Smith, a freshman performance studies major from Wichita, Kansas; Charles Douthit, a senior church music major from Mooresville, North Carolina; and Vincent Pham, a performance studies master’s candidate from San Diego. The winner will perform in May at St. Bartholomew’s Episcopal Church in New York. Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues