Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Working at a Faith-Based Christian University The mission of Baylor University is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. What does this mission mean for the university? The University president, Dr. Linda Livingstone, often describes Baylor as “unapologetically Christian.” This can refer to both our mission, as well as the personal Christian faith that everyone who works for Baylor or supports Baylor, typically shares in common. From our President and Board of Regents to our faculty and staff, we are living out this mission in our daily activities and roles. And while Baylor students are not asked to endorse a particular faith, gaining a quality education in a Christian community is commonly cited as their reason for selecting Baylor. What would the expectations be of a psychology intern working at the Counseling Center? As employees of the university, interns are expected to support the Baylor Mission and the ways we carry out our roles on campus. We ask that interns have the ability and willingness to demonstrate a spiritual attitude and a Christian lifestyle consistent with the beliefs, methods, and goals of Baylor University. Our Christian faith is an integral part of who we are, and we are looking for intern candidates that can be a strong fit in this university setting. What kind of religious activities or traditions does the university engage in, and will I be expected to participate? The BUCC faculty respects the right of each intern to determine their spiritual or religious identity, including not identifying with a specific spiritual or religious orientation. While some departmental meetings, university faculty meetings, and classes may begin with prayer, a psychology intern is NOT expected to pray or participate in the prayer if they desire not to do so. Does the BUCC practice Pastoral or Christian counseling? The short answer is no, we do not practice pastoral or Christian counseling. In alignment with APA ethical guidelines, we do not impose our beliefs or value systems on a client. Accordingly, we respect and support the client’s right to self-determination. We view our clients’ spiritual beliefs and practices as an important aspect of diversity, and we provide a faith-affirming approach to counseling. While many of the students at Baylor do bring in a Christian faith, and want to incorporate it into their change process, there is also a broad range of religious identities and faith practices on campus. We provide an affirming and safe space for all students. A great multicultural benefit to our training site is that you will gain the opportunity to work with numerous religious students. How does Baylor view human sexuality, and what type of community are they committed to? Baylor University is committed to providing a caring, loving, and supportive community for students in all aspects of their lives, including the development of their sexuality. We acknowledge the complexity of issues surrounding human sexuality and desire to engage in this conversation with humility, prayerfulness and convicted civility. We believe that Baylor is in a unique position to support our students, including those who identify as LGBTQ, because of our Christian mission and the significant campus-wide resources available. Baylor’s status as a Christian research university values the scholarly investigation of Scripture. Consequently, we are committed to the open study of Scripture and discussion of multiple perspectives, both inside and outside the classroom. Regardless of one’s viewpoint on human sexuality, Baylor supports the dignity and worth of every person and seeks to create a campus climate where each person is treated with love and respect within our caring community. How does the university affirm its biblical understanding of gender and sexuality while also supporting their LGBTQ students? On May 14, 2021, the university Board of Regents passed a resolution that acknowledges the University’s responsibility for serving the needs of all students based on three guiding principles: The dignity and worth of all, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, as we strive to fulfill our Christian commitment of a caring community. The biblical understanding that sexual relations of any kind outside of marriage between a man and a woman are not in keeping with the teaching of Scripture, as summarized in the University’s Statement on Human Sexuality. Our commitment to providing a welcoming, supportive educational environment based on civility and respect for all. How do Baylor’s efforts toward a caring community and 3 guiding principles for serving students impact the internship training experience? Ultimately, the BUCC doctoral internship in health service psychology trains and prepares interns to serve a diverse public, to provide ethical mental health care that values the right to self-determination, is affirming and supportive of the multiple aspects of diversity, cultural background, and identity variables that an individual endorses, and contributes to the caring community on campus. Similarly, students struggling with aspects of their identity and background, will also be affirmed and provided a caring space to explore who they want to be and find ways to grow and reduce their distress. Can you direct me to additional materials to more fully understand the Baylor culture and what it would be like to work here? Baylor Mission Statement https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88781 Our Christian Commitment https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88782 Our Core Convictions https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=90435 A Caring Community https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88784 Code of Ethics https://www.baylor.edu/risk/doc.php/339229.pdf *Ability and willingness to uphold all Baylor University standards of conduct. You can view Baylor’s “Personnel Policies” here: https://www.baylor.edu/risk/index.php?id=962845 APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health