Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Art About Programs People Facilities Resources News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact A creative space for you Explore our facilities that feature the tools you need to let your imagination run free Create your future Select the undergraduate or graduate degree program that's right for you Art Appreciation Visit our art exhibition spaces PreviousNext Take Action Apply to the UofM Art Appreciation Support the College Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebook Home Department of Art Memphis is Art. The University of Memphis Department of Art educates students in visual arts and design from a holistic perspective: practical, theoretical, and historical. Whether the focus is studio, art history, art education, or graphic design, undergraduate and graduate students develop a creative voice and professional practice through the cultivation of skill, critical analysis, and an understanding of art's evolution over time and place. Programs in the Department of Art lead to the Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.), the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), the Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.), the Master of Arts (M.A.) or the Master of Arts in Teaching (M.A.T.) degrees. The department offers a B.F.A. with a major in Art; students may choose between four concentrations: Art Education, Graphic Design, Photography or Studio Arts, a B.A. with a major in Art; students may choose between four concentrations: Fashion Design, Fashion Merchandising, Global Art Histories or Visual Arts, a M.F.A with a major in Art; students may choose between five concentrations: Ceramics, Graphic Design, Painting, Printmaking/Photography or Sculpture, a M.A. with a major in Art History; students may choose between five concentrations: African American - African Diaspora Art Histories, African American and African Diaspora Art Histories Concentration with Museum Studies Certificate, Egyptian Art and Archaeology, General Art History, Museum Practices and a M.A.T with certification in the area of Art Education. The department offers Graduate Certificates; students may choose between Graphic Design or Museum Studies, an Accelerated Bachelors to Masters in Graphic Design and Minors in Art History, Fashion Design, Fashion Merchandising, Graphic Design, Photography, Studio Arts and Web Design are also available. For complete curriculum details, please review the university undergraduate and graduate catalogs. Congratulations to Dr. Bryna Bobick for earning the 2022 CCFA Dean's Award for Outstanding Research! Community Art Academy | Outside In + Watercolors| Memphis Public Library Community Art Academy | The Forever Tree + Paper Bag Craft | Memphis Public Library 39th Annual Juried Student Exhibition Virtual Reception February 11, 2022 at 6pm No registration required: https://memphis.zoom.us/j/89925975980 Welcome and Introduction Richard A. Lou & Leslie Luebbers Dean of CCFA - Dean Anne Hogan Juror Lecture - Julie Pierotti, Martha R. Robinson Curator at the Dixon Gallery and Gardens, Memphis, TN https://www.dixon.org/ Awards & Thank you to Sponsors - Richard A. Lou Closing Remarks - Leslie Luebbers Support the Art History Tigers Club The Art History Tigers Club at the University of Memphis is raising money to help fund a trip to Crystal Bridges Museum in Bentonville, Arkansas next fall. Many of these students have never visited museums outside of Tennessee. Please consider donating and sharing this link with others. We are offering buttons, stickers, t-shirts, and tote bags for donations. Thank you for your support! Make A Gift > Art History Tigers Club swag: Logo designed by Graphic Design student Elizabeth McKinney and inspired by "Frido the Tiger" (based on Frida Kahlo, of course), featured in the TigerLIFE mural downtown. Tigers in Action The Art History Tigers Club got a private, guided tour of the Belz Museum of Asian and Judaic Art in downtown Memphis! UofM art majors and TigerLIFE students collaborated on a mural this fall. Mural artist, Stacey Williams-Ng, came to campus this week to help them install it. It was a huge success! Come see this gorgeous design in person at the Arts and Communication Building on campus (first floor). Check out the awesome work students created for a body mapping and mural project in downtown Memphis. Art History professor Dr. Lucienne Auz designed and directed the project. Also assisting in the project were professors Lisa Williamson, Kelsey Harrison, Dr. Rebecca Howard, Hamlett Dobbins and Department of Art chair Richard Lou. The goal of the body mapping and mural project was to create body maps that reflected students personal identities. Please check out the article from UofM Magazine here. News & Events New Department of Art Scholarship: Bobick Family Art Education Scholarship Mr. J. Bruce Bobick and his daughter Dr. Bryna Bobick, Professor of Art Education have endowed the Bobick Family Art Education Scholarship. Dr. Bobick sees firsthand the number of hours her students are working in addition to taking classes. They established the scholarship to help ease the financial burden for Art Education students during their senior year. The Bobick Family Art Education Scholarship is restricted to undergraduate students from the Memphis metropolitan area (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau’s Memphis-Forrest City, TN-AR- MS Combined Statistical Area) attending the University with a demonstrated financial need, and who are majoring in, or who intend to major in Art Education. *Recipient must be a rising senior with a minimum 3.0 GPA; Applicants must submit a letter stating their teaching philosophy; Financial need will be considered. The accomplishments of candidates for this position must reflect their commitment to working with an inclusive student population, and their ability to contribute in meaningful ways to the diversity and intercultural academic goals of the university. The Department of Art thanks the Bobick family for their generous support of our Art Education students. Unleash Your Inner Fashionista The Department of Art is excited to announce a new Fashion Design and Fashion Merchandising B.A. Art program that is accepting applications now. The new fashion program is the only one of its kind in the region and is a 4-year 120 credit hour art degree. Create your own designs, build a portfolio and get hands-on experience. Students learn basic to advanced skills in pattern making, draping, illustration, and the business side of the industry from nationally recognized fashion design faculty. Show us your creative vision. Find out more > Black Artists in America by Dr. Earnestine Jenkins Dr. Earnestine Jenkin’s most recent scholarship includes the upcoming publication of her book, Black Artists in America, Yale University Press and an exhibition at the Dixon Gallery and Gardens, Black Artists in America: From the Great Depression to Civil Rights where she participated as the Curator. Congratulations Dr. Jenkins! View Dr. Jenkins Book > Learn more about her Dixon Gallery and Gardens exhibition > Congratulations to Anthony Presley for earning 1st place in the 2021 Student Research Forum Anthony Presley lives and works in Memphis Tennessee. He is currently enrolled in the Graduate Program, earning his Master of Fine Arts in Photography. In 2019, he received his Bachelor of Fine Arts at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago where he concentrated in Film and Video production. Working in Film and Photography, his work has been exhibited in cities across the United States such as: Cleveland, New York City, Las Vegas, Chicago, and in his hometown, Memphis. His work has been in over 40 publications and has won 14 awards for his work, most recently, the Graduate Student Purchase Award in the University of Memphis' Annual Juried Exhibition and First Place in the Liberal/Fine Arts category in the University's Student Research Forum. Anthony's research highlighted the Horror genre in cinema by completing a historical timeline of the genre's trends starting in the 1930's to present, Identified the representation of different social communities and minorities, connected films to real life social and political events at the time, and presented the psychological and health benefits of watching horror. Congratulations to Ethan James McVay for winning the Dean's Outstanding Achievement Award Ethan James McVay (he/they) is a visual artist from Memphis, Tennessee, whose interdisciplinary work consists of live performance, volunteer participation, and installation. They are currently pursuing a Bachelors of Fine Arts from the University of Memphis. Their work explores touch, time, movement, and permeable states of being. Their work has been exhibited in the UrbanArt Commision’s Tiny Gallery for receiving a “Bridging the Distance''(2021) grant, "In Consideration" (2020) at Crosstown Arts 430 gallery, and “Southern Miss Ceramics National” at the University of Southern Mississippi Museum of Art (2020). Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.