Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Marketing Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Marketing Major Apply Visit Request More Info Marketing Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing Prepare for a successful career in a range of marketing disciplines through the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Marketing in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Gain an understanding of marketing activities such as creating effective promotional programs, innovating and developing new products, and distributing products and services in a global marketplace. Study applied quantitative methods and the behavioral sciences necessary to address contemporary marketing challenges. The curriculum is built on active, experiential learning. Students will explore a wide variety of foundational marketing topics including advertising, communications, digital media, customer data analytics, market research, sales and strategy. Choose to gain a deeper understanding of a single area and increase your job readiness by choosing a specific curriculum-based course sequence. Options for specialization include Consumer Insights, Digital Marketing, Retailing and Sales Force Effectiveness. Marketing faculty combine theory with extensive firsthand industry experience in the classroom. Cases and simulations, along with projects offered in cooperation with business and government organizations, allow students to apply their knowledge to real-life scenarios. Internships with regional and international business communities can build your résumé, grow your professional network and facilitate career development. Graduates are prepared for work across corporate, organizational and nonprofit realms. Classes & Curriculum Marketing majors study psychology, economics and statistics to understand the basics of marketing. Some of the required courses include Consumer and Buyer Behavior, Customer Data Analytics, International Marketing, Marketing Research, and Marketing Strategy. Learn more about the Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing coursework. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Online BBA Program The Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing is available as an Online BBA degree program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. 4+1 Master of Education The 4+1 Master of Education (MEd) program is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a Master of Education while completing the Marketing BBA program requirements. After completion of the programs, students earn a BBA degree and an MEd in Business, Computers and Information Technology; or Marketing Education. They also earn a Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Instructional I Teaching Certificate in one of these specializations. For more information, please contact Linda C. Jones, the program coordinator for the 4+1 Master of Education program. Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: lcjones@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Decision Neuroscience PhD Digital Innovation in Marketing MS Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Marketing MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Innovation Strategy Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Marketing majors join the American Marketing Association to launch their professional network in marketing and build career-ready skills. This robust student professional organization is open to all majors and offers opportunity to consult on real-world accounts, hear from experts in the field through a professional speaker series, meet leaders in the local industry and tour their offices, participate in career development workshops, socialize with other marketing majors at association events, and volunteer in the community. The following clubs and organizations also give students insight into a variety of career paths in marketing. Art of Business/Business of Art Fashion & Business Club Professional Sales Organization Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-MKTG-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Marketing Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info