Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of the Provost Menu Search TTU Office of the Provost Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech Texas Tech University is a growing, dynamic place to work, study and conduct research. The university is experiencing extraordinary student growth. The fall 2016 enrollment of 37,010 students set an eighth consecutive record. In 2009 Texas Tech set a goal to become a national research university. The first step toward that goal was reached in 2011 when Texas Tech became one of the first two Texas universities to meet the legislatively set criteria to receive National Research University status. With the designation comes millions of dollars in state funding to enhance the research mission of the university. The university continued to receive national recognition in 2014 when it earned the designation of Innovation and Economic Prosperity University from the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities. The designation recognizes the university's engagement in an array of economic development efforts. In 2016, Texas Tech achieved Tier One status with its listing among the nation's top doctoral universities in the 2016 Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. Texas Tech is one of 115 universities – and one of 81 public institutions in the nation – listed in the Highest Research Activity category. While the university talks a lot about research because those numbers are the means by which universities are measured. But at Texas Tech be assured that teaching, scholarship and creative activity are valued just as highly as research activity. Texas Tech has top flight programs in the humanities, social sciences and the visual and performing arts. And we know that our classroom teaching is the heart of our success in other areas. Texas Tech is nationally recognized for the well-prepared graduates we produce. A number of publications have listed us among the best in that area. There are programs to help faculty, especially junior faculty members, strengthen their teaching and research. The Teaching, Learning and Professional Development Center, the Ethics Center, and other groups, provide teaching resources to all faculty members. The Office of the Vice President for Research offers a variety of faculty development opportunities and internal funding programs to promote faculty success in research and creative activities, and to assist faculty members develop successful external funding proposals. Texas Tech takes its mission of service, outreach and engagement seriously. The university offers its students outstanding study abroad and service learning opportunities to broaden their world view. The university provides a multitude of programs designed to entertain, educate and enhance the Lubbock community and our region. More about the Texas Tech University System Texas Tech is the flagship of the Texas Tech University System (TTUS). TTUS was founded in 1996, and is made up of four universities: Texas Tech; Angelo State University in San Angelo, Texas; and the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, based in Lubbock with campuses in Abilene, Amarillo, Dallas, the Permian Basin, and the newly established location in El Paso. Robert L. Duncan is chancellor of the university system. More about Texas Tech Texas Tech University System Texas Tech Office of the President Texas Tech Office of the Provost Texas Tech Office of the Vice President for Research Texas Tech Strategic Plan Texas Tech Athletics All currently enrolled students, campus employees and all prospective students and prospective employees are entitled to request and receive a copy of the Annual Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Report. For more information and a copy of the current Texas Tech Annual Crime Statistics and Safety Report please visit: http://www.depts.ttu.edu/ttpd/clery.php Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Office of the Provost Address 104 Administration Building, Box 42019, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2019 Phone 806.742.2184 Email provost.communications@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 24, 2021 8:45 AM Office of the Provost About Office of the Provost About Back Provost Communications Leadership Office of the Provost About Leadership Back Meet the Provost Staff Directory Individual College Administration University Strategic Plan Academic Calendar Office of the Provost About Academic Calendar Back Provost Planning Calendar New Faculty Bios Academic Affairs Office of the Provost Academic Affairs Back Academic Affairs Provost Units COACHE Faculty Job Satisfaction Institutional Effectiveness Councils, Committees, Centers & Institutions Professional Licensure Faculty Resources Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Back Policies Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Policies Back Tenure & Promotion Tenure & Promotion FAQs Faculty Handbook Operating Policies & Procedures Required & Optional Language for Syllabi Curriculum Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Curriculum Back Core and Multicultural Curriculum Writing Intensive Requirement Lab Science Requirement Curricular Proposals Communication Literacy Academic Program Terminology Prospective Faculty Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Prospective Faculty Back Prospective Faculty About Texas Tech About Lubbock Education Housing Health Care Transportation Arts, Culture & Entertainment Sports & Recreation Shopping & Dining Dual-Career Couples Texas Tech Human Resources Faculty Enrichment Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Faculty Enrichment Back 2020-2022 Facult Convocation Program President's Excellence in Teaching Professorship President's Excellence in Research Professorship Big XII Faculty Fellowships Faculty Award Incentives & Recognition Integrated Scholars Spring 2020 Report of the Faculty Success Task Force Faculty Success Initiative Faculty Ombudsperson For Department Chairs/School Directors Campus Climate Initiatives Office of the Provost Initiatives Back Worldwide eLearning Success & Retention Outreach & Engagement OnRamps Dual Enrollment Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) Faculty Success Signature Educational Experiences Office of the Provost Signature Educational Experiences Back Pi Squared: Program in Inquiry and Investigative Thinking Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index