Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu School of Public Health Breadcrumb Home News from Brown News Search Subscribe to our weekly newsletter 65 Results based on your selections. News and Events 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses May 19, 2022 Mira Nikolova and Abdullah Shihipar, who respectively earned a Ph.D. and master’s from Brown in 2020, will return to campus to address their fellow alumni during a dedicated Commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 28. Read Article Open details for 2020 doctoral and master’s degree speakers to return to College Hill for in-person addresses Health and Medicine Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 22, 2022 Brown researchers found that temporary changes to Medicaid eligibility meant that women who were due to lose coverage 60 days after giving birth were able to stay on their plans. Read Article Open details for Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds Health and Medicine For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 In ‘The Mindful College Student,’ Eric Loucks, director of Brown’s Mindfulness Center, teaches essential mindfulness skills to help young adults flourish during this transition period and throughout their lifetime. Read Article Open details for For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health Health and Medicine Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters April 7, 2022 A poster conference during National Public Health Week offered Brown public health students the opportunity to discuss the significance of their research to the community — and to their own educational experience. Read Article Open details for Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters Health and Medicine Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health March 25, 2022 An epidemiologist with unique and varied public health experience, Aubert will serve as interim dean while Dr. Ashish Jha is on short-term leave for an assignment leading the nation’s COVID-19 response. Read Article Open details for Ronald Aubert to serve as interim dean of Brown’s School of Public Health Health and Medicine President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response March 17, 2022 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, a globally recognized expert on pandemic preparedness and response, will take leave for a temporary assignment to serve in the critical federal government role. Read Article Open details for President Biden appoints Dr. Ashish K. Jha to White House role to lead nation’s COVID-19 response Health and Medicine University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ March 15, 2022 A kickoff event on Friday, April 29, will begin a 15-month celebration of the Warren Alpert Medical School’s evolution and its plans for the future. Read Article Open details for University to celebrate impact, history of ‘50 Years of Medicine at Brown’ Health and Medicine Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health March 7, 2022 As volunteers with Lifespan’s Connect for Health program, dozens of Brown students each year link patients in need with available resources, with the ultimate goal of improving physical health and well-being. Read Article Open details for Powered by students, focused on patients — assisting Rhode Islanders through Connect for Health Health and Medicine COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress March 2, 2022 Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care systems. Read Article Open details for COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress Health and Medicine Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds February 28, 2022 Using a simulation modeling approach, Brown researchers estimate that closing syringe services programs, even for one year, will cause cases of HIV to rise. Read Article Open details for Suspending syringe services programs will result in an increase of HIV infections, study finds University Initiatives Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health February 23, 2022 An innovative new version of Brown’s MPH program, delivered exclusively online, will expand access to a top public health education for learners nationally and around the world. Read Article Open details for Brown launches online-only master’s degree in public health Science and Technology Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech February 22, 2022 With a massive shift under way toward more home-based health care delivery, more than 90 medical professionals and technologists gathered virtually to explore the challenges and opportunities that change presents. Read Article Open details for Brown convenes scholars to envision the future of home-based health tech Health and Medicine At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients February 11, 2022 Founded by Brown faculty members Dr. Amy Nunn and Dr. Philip Chan, Open Door Health is lowering barriers to health care by providing culturally congruent LGBTQ+-focused care. Read Article Open details for At community health clinic in Providence, improving access and care for LGBTQ+ patients Health and Medicine In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees February 8, 2022 A study led by Brown University researchers found significant racial and ethnic disparities in patient care experience among enrollees of Medicaid managed care plans. Read Article Open details for In Medicaid managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees News and Events Students unite to take a hands-on, DIY approach to improving air quality November 19, 2021 An event hosted by Brown’s School of Public Health brought students together to build low-cost, highly effective Corsi-Rosenthal cubes as air filters that will augment existing filtration systems at Brown. Read Article Open details for Students unite to take a hands-on, DIY approach to improving air quality Health and Medicine People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity November 11, 2021 New findings about military veterans at the highest risk for food insecurity can help connect them to food they need for good health and inform interventions to address the larger, long-term issue. Read Article Open details for People of color, women and those with health conditions among veterans at high risk of food insecurity Health and Medicine Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing October 22, 2021 New federal grants totaling $1.4 million are supporting a partnership between Brown, Progreso Latino, the Rhode Island Quality Institute and others to address barriers to testing and vaccination among high-risk populations. Read Article Open details for Brown researchers, local partners aim to reduce disparities in COVID-19 vaccination, testing Health and Medicine Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic October 13, 2021 Substantially fewer patients initiated treatment for kidney failure in the beginning of the pandemic, a new study found, with Black patients in particular initiating treatment at significantly worse levels of kidney function. Read Article Open details for Fewer patients sought treatment for kidney failure in early months of COVID-19 pandemic Health and Medicine Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 October 5, 2021 A new study found that people with lower incomes and who experienced multiple COVID-related stressors were more likely to feel the toll of the pandemic, as socioeconomic inequities in mental health continue to widen. Read Article Open details for Depression rates tripled and symptoms intensified during first year of COVID-19 Health and Medicine Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike September 17, 2021 New findings about the causes and characteristics of overdose deaths during the COVID-19 pandemic may be used to inform policies that could lower death rates even after COVID-19 is under control. Read Article Open details for Men, jobless and people with mental health diagnoses most vulnerable in 2020 overdose spike Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ September 2, 2021 In his first “State of the School” address, the dean of the Brown School of Public Health detailed an ambitious plan to learn and grow from the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: It’s time to ‘turn a public health moment into a public health movement’ Science and Technology Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects Health and Medicine Deaths of assisted living residents spiked during COVID-19 pandemic, study reveals June 14, 2021 A new study led by Brown researchers shows the crucial need for specific attention to be paid to assisted living residences in response to pandemics and other emergencies. Read Article Open details for Deaths of assisted living residents spiked during COVID-19 pandemic, study reveals Health and Medicine Top-rated Medicare Advantage plans perform worse for minority, low-income enrollees, study finds June 11, 2021 A new analysis by researchers at Brown University shows the association of Medicare Advantage star ratings with racial, ethnic and socioeconomic disparities in quality of care. Read Article Open details for Top-rated Medicare Advantage plans perform worse for minority, low-income enrollees, study finds Health and Medicine A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Health and Medicine The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children June 10, 2021 A long-term study of mothers and babies, run by the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute, engages Rhode Island families in research that has the ability to make an outsize impact on children’s health. Read Article Open details for The Hassenfeld Study shows how a mother’s data can help countless children News and Events Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute May 27, 2021 For two decades, the Nonviolence Institute has been an instrumental force in preventing violence and providing support to victims in Rhode Island; the joint contribution will support its work amid a surge in gun violence. Read Article Open details for Joint $500,000 gift from Brown, R.I. Foundation, Partnership for R.I. to support Nonviolence Institute Health and Medicine Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory expands massive effort to track COVID-19 vaccine effects May 10, 2021 A $1.4 million federal grant will enable the research team to add customer data from Walgreens, doubling the scope of the largest monitoring system of safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccinations for elderly people. Read Article Open details for Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory expands massive effort to track COVID-19 vaccine effects News and Events Brown faculty confers highest honor on public health, dance scholars and educators May 2, 2021 At the University’s Commencement 2021 celebration, the Brown faculty presented their peers Vincent Mor and Julie Strandberg with Rosenberger Medals of Honor, awarded just 33 times in more than a century. Read Article Open details for Brown faculty confers highest honor on public health, dance scholars and educators News and Events In address to Brown public health grads, U.S. Surgeon General shares lessons both professional and personal April 29, 2021 As part of a virtual celebration for the School of Public Health’s soon-to-be Class of 2021 graduates, Dr. Vivek Murthy drew on his experience as a public health leader to offer advice for the challenges ahead. Read Article Open details for In address to Brown public health grads, U.S. Surgeon General shares lessons both professional and personal Health and Medicine Innovative virtual course helps leaders tackle pandemic challenges in real time April 6, 2021 Brown physician-scholars Dr. Ashish Jha and Dr. Megan Ranney led a virtual course that featured national health and medicine experts and offered lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic while there’s still time to learn from them. Read Article Open details for Innovative virtual course helps leaders tackle pandemic challenges in real time Health and Medicine National Public Health Week events at Brown will be truly national this year April 1, 2021 In pivoting to an all-virtual event, Brown’s School of Public Health will offer opportunities for interaction on key public health issues, including a podcast series and topical discussions, to listeners everywhere. Read Article Open details for National Public Health Week events at Brown will be truly national this year Health and Medicine Deaths from COVID-19 have progressively declined at nursing homes, researchers find March 19, 2021 A study published in Health Affairs helps close the information gap between mortality rates in nursing homes and those in the U.S. population at large. Read Article Open details for Deaths from COVID-19 have progressively declined at nursing homes, researchers find Health and Medicine In front of Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha stresses a global approach to ending COVID-19 pandemic March 18, 2021 The dean of Brown’s School of Public Health advised members of the U.S. Committee on Foreign Affairs on strategies to end this global health emergency and prepare for the next. Read Article Open details for In front of Congress, Dr. Ashish Jha stresses a global approach to ending COVID-19 pandemic Health and Medicine As public health dominates public conversation, Brown receives record number of MPH applications March 10, 2021 The number of applications for Brown’s master of public health program is more than double that of last year, with the largest increases coming from people of color. Read Article Open details for As public health dominates public conversation, Brown receives record number of MPH applications Health and Medicine Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities March 1, 2021 When the pandemic paused some lab-based work, Brown scholars quickly pivoted to COVID-19 research, generating new studies in respected journals, funding for new pursuits, and new collaborations with a wide range of partners. Read Article Open details for Quick pivots: For four researchers, COVID-19 provided immediate new possibilities Health and Medicine Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 March 1, 2021 Throughout the chaos and confusion of the COVID-19 pandemic, Drs. Ashish Jha and Megan Ranney offered clear, concise commentary to households nationwide. Read Article Open details for Health experts at Brown become national voices in battle against COVID-19 Social Sciences Through independent research, students tackle pressing social issues March 1, 2021 From Providence to Madagascar, Brown undergraduates are conducting first-hand research across disciplines to confront a wide range of social issues. Read Article Open details for Through independent research, students tackle pressing social issues Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha testifies before Congress on nation’s bumpy COVID-19 vaccine rollout February 26, 2021 In reviewing the mistakes and successes of vaccination efforts, the dean of Brown’s School of Public Health of advised members of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee on how to improve vaccine distribution in the months ahead. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha testifies before Congress on nation’s bumpy COVID-19 vaccine rollout Health and Medicine Brown, Lifespan, Care New England to create integrated academic health system February 23, 2021 Lifespan and Care New England signed a definitive agreement to merge and create, with Brown and its Warren Alpert Medical School, an integrated academic health system, together for a healthier Rhode Island — Brown invests $125 million in support. Read Article Open details for Brown, Lifespan, Care New England to create integrated academic health system Health and Medicine Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects February 8, 2021 A $2.5 million federal grant will enable the research team to track vaccine rates and safety for Medicare beneficiaries, who face increased risk of severe illness from the coronavirus. Read Article Open details for Brown-based IMPACT Collaboratory teams with CVS to monitor COVID-19 vaccine effects Health and Medicine What the COVID-19 pandemic teaches us about the future of public health January 4, 2021 Scholars from Brown and its School of Public Health take stock of what went wrong during the pandemic, what went right, and what needs to change so the nation is better prepared for the next health crisis. Read Article Open details for What the COVID-19 pandemic teaches us about the future of public health Health and Medicine Researchers identify predictors of timely enrollment in treatment for opioid use disorder December 16, 2020 Frequent doctor visits were associated with timely treatment, while prior overdose, alcohol use disorder and back problems predicted non-enrollment, study finds. Read Article Open details for Researchers identify predictors of timely enrollment in treatment for opioid use disorder Health and Medicine With COVID-19 vaccine near, Brown researchers to track adverse impacts in nursing home residents December 2, 2020 A new federal grant will enable a Brown research team and Genesis HealthCare to identify and track health impacts after elderly residents in long-term care facilities receive vaccinations. Read Article Open details for With COVID-19 vaccine near, Brown researchers to track adverse impacts in nursing home residents Health and Medicine New communications toolkit aims to encourage routine COVID-19 testing across the U.S. November 19, 2020 The Brown University School of Public Health, Harvard Global Health Institute and the Rockefeller Foundation launched a toolkit to help health officials, community organizations convey the importance of asymptomatic testing. Read Article Open details for New communications toolkit aims to encourage routine COVID-19 testing across the U.S. News and Events What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown's faculty experts October 29, 2020 Eight faculty members shared their analysis on what the nation can expect on Election Day and beyond — at the polls, on the streets and potentially in the courts. Read Article Open details for What to expect on Election Day, according to Brown&#039;s faculty experts Social Sciences Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways October 23, 2020 Faculty at Brown shared their thoughts on the final televised presidential debate before the 2020 election, where the two major candidates sparred over COVID-19, climate change and racial justice. Read Article Open details for Political, environmental, race scholars share presidential debate takeaways Health and Medicine Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship October 15, 2020 Brown School of Public Health faculty member Lorin Crawford will receive $875,000 over five years to pursue research in statistics, genomics and applied mathematics. Read Article Open details for Early-career biostatistics scholar from Brown wins prestigious Packard fellowship Health and Medicine Tuned lighting helps nursing home residents get better sleep, study finds October 6, 2020 A study led by researchers at the Brown University School of Public Health found that using tuned LED lighting cut in half the number of sleep disturbances among older residents in long-term care. Read Article Open details for Tuned lighting helps nursing home residents get better sleep, study finds Health and Medicine Dr. Ashish Jha: For public health leaders, ‘expertise plus humanity’ is key to success October 1, 2020 A prominent global voice on COVID-19 and the new dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, Dr. Jha weighs in on lessons from the pandemic and how educators can best train future leaders in health and medicine. Read Article Open details for Dr. Ashish Jha: For public health leaders, ‘expertise plus humanity’ is key to success Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search School of Public Health Open details for School of Public Health Bookmark this Page