Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Give Back Give Now In This Section Alumni Give Back Why the HKS Fund? How to Give Giving Programs You are here Home Alumni Giving One person can make a difference. Give to the HKS Fund. Your gift provides immediate resources to keep Harvard Kennedy School growing and innovating. Your commitment ensures that our students’ financial needs are met and that our campus and curriculum are relevant and responsive to a changing world. Karly Zhunussova MPA/ID 2020 Your gift at work “Financial aid is the only chance to continue education when you are a young professional from a developing country with limited or even nonexistent opportunities to get a student loan.” “By donating to the HKS Fund, alumni can help the School address the thorniest issues confronting society today by working to educate the changemakers and leaders who will take prominent roles in shaping our collective future.” Jill Wagner MPA 1983 Why the HKS Fund? Unrestricted giving is a very powerful source of funding that has an immediate and meaningful impact on our students. All gifts to the HKS Fund make a difference. Learn more How to Give Your support is essential to the success of our students and the ongoing excellence of our programs. Find out how you can give to Harvard Kennedy School today. Make a gift Giving Programs We recognize donors with membership in various giving programs. Our gratitude is matched only by the tremendous impact they are having on our mission. Learn more Meet some of our most loyal alumni donors Jerome Holmes MC/MPA 2000 “I think it’s important to create an environment that nurtures future leaders who will impact the world.” Read Jerome's Story Jessica Feldman MC/MPA 1989 “I think if you have benefitted greatly from the School, you owe them something. At the Kennedy School, I was challenged. It was truly transformative.” Read Jessica's story Mary Kurkjian MPP 1978 “My time at [HKS] was really transformative and made possible by generous financial assistance...I want to help other students much like I was helped.” Read Mary's Story Allen Wendt MC/MPA 1967 “The time I spent at Harvard fully justified my contributions. For me it was a very good fit. It was payback time.” Read Allen's Story HKS: Where moments turn into momentum 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/