Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Undergraduate Studies DVDs Available On Loan Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences DVDs Available On Loan Thanks to a generous donation from the Class of 2005, the following DVD's (in two categories: entertainment and educational) are available for loan, free of charge, to members of the Department of Earth, Environment and Planetary Sciences. Contact Pat Davey to make arrangements. Pure Entertainment Click on the links below to watch the movie trailers. Dante's Peak USGS scientist Harry Dalton is sent to the small town of Dante's Peak to check on unusual activity. Spurred by the volcano related death of a previous lover, Dalton urges Mayor Rachel Wando to put the city on alert. Dalton's boss, Paul Dreyfus arrives and countermands Dalton demanding scientific proof. When the proof finally arrives, Harry and Rachel must go to the volcano to rescue her two children and ex-mother-in-law. Tension builds as they try to reach safety while the town below is destroyed. Deep Impact A comet is on a course to collide with Earth. The President has devised a plan to keep as many humans alive as possible, starting with a NASA mission is to destroy the comet before it gets too close to the earth. When Messiah backfires, scientists build giant caves big enough to hold a million people, and the government is going to have a lottery to pick 800,000 people to live in the caves along with 200,000 scientists, artists and doctors. These people will be set aside to save the population from extinction when the comet hits. The Day After Tomorrow At the center of the story is a paleoclimatologist, Prof. Jack Hall, who tries to save the world from the effects of global warming while also trying to get to his son, Sam, who was in New York City as part of a scholastic competition, when the city was overwhelmed by the chilling beginnings of the new Ice Age. In addition to all of the other challenges Dr. Hall faces, he's also going against the flow as humanity races south to warmer climes, and he's nearly the only one going north. Twister TV weatherman Bill Harding is trying to get his tornado-hunter wife, Jo, to sign divorce papers so he can marry his girlfriend Melissa. But Mother Nature, in the form of a series of intense storms sweeping across Oklahoma, has other plans. Soon the three have joined the team of stormchasers as they attempt to insert a revolutionary measuring device into the very heart of several extremely violent tornados. Volcano After a seemingly minor earthquake one night in Los Angeles, a giant burst of lava is released from the La Brea Tar Pits, resulting in the birth of a new volcano under the city. City officials are reluctant to believe scientists who notice the early warning signs (the temperature of a lake rises 6 degrees in 12 hours) but they learn their lesson when lava begins to spill out into the streets and to destroy buildings and cars. Dedicated Emergency Management director Mike Roark rushes to the rescue, with help from a plucky seismologist. Educational Forces of Nature Experience the awesome spectacle of earthquakes, volcanoes, and severe storms as National Geographic cameras travel the world, venturing to the very brink of erupting volcanoes, into the paths of deadly pyroclastic flows, along massive fault lines, and aboard vehicles barreling toward massive tornados - all in the pursuit of scientific knowledge. Stunning visual footage and a powerful soundtrack bring natural disasters to life like never before. Glaciers: Alaska's Rivers of Ice This presentation of scientific information does tremendous justice to the researchers who diligently serve the US Geological Survey and The Alaska Geographic Society and explains in detail one of the earth's most dramatic natural processes. Watch an in-depth introduction to glaciers, the characteristics of glacier ice, the erosional and depositional features that glaciers produce, glaciers and climate history, the relationship between glaciers and global sea level, glacier ecosystems, examples of glacier research investigations, the history of exploration of Alaskan glaciers, and the global distribution of water. Living Rock: An Intro to Earth's Geology Ever wonder why earthquakes happen, or how a volcano works? Find the answers to these and many other questions in LIVING ROCK, a fun and educational program about the Earth's geology, jointly produced by the US Geological Survey and Alpha DVD. Introduces concepts such as Geologic Time, Continental Crust, Plate Tectonics, Volcanic Activity, Earthquakes, Subduction Zones, Erosion, and Glaciers. Strange Days on Planet Earth Around the globe, scientists are racing to solve a series of mysteries. Unsettling transformations are sweeping across the planet, and clue by clue, investigators are discovering ways that seemingly disparate events are connected. Crumbling houses in New Orleans are linked to voracious creatures from southern China. An asthma epidemic in the Caribbean is linked to dust storms in Africa. Scientists suspect we have entered a time of global change swifter than any human being has ever witnessed. Where are we headed? What can we do to alter this course of events? Hosted by actor Edward Norton. People Undergraduate Studies What is Geology? Concentrations GeoDUG Advisors Research Collaborative Research Independent Research Projects and Honors Educational Opportunities The Sarah LaMendola Award Borrow Geo DVDs Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide