Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Admissions Breadcrumb Admissions Let Your Amazing Journey Begin As one of the most highly ranked academic institutions in the country, we inspire our students to dream big, push boundaries, defy the odds, and blaze new trails. Our undergraduate and graduate programs are led by dedicated, award-winning faculty who engage students in experience-based learning and research. Our welcoming, innovative, entrepreneurial campus community embodies the very best of California. UC Riverside is one of the most ethnically diverse and inclusive research universities in the nation. We have been named the third-best college for Hispanics in the country (BestColleges.com, 2016). We are also an Asian-American, Native American, and Pacific Islander Serving Institution (AANAPISI). At UCR, 86% of undergraduate students receive financial aid and 70% of those who receive aid have their full fees covered by grants and/or scholarships. Learn more about UCR Financial Aid. Whether you’re aiming for graduate or professional school or are looking ahead to succeed in your career, UCR is the right place to help you achieve your goals. Related Topics Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost How to apply to UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions UC Riverside is a top-tier university on the cutting edge of science, engineering, humanities, business, and research. Our Undergraduate Admissions Office can help you with admissions requirements and important deadlines. Learn More Graduate Admissions With 39 Ph.D. programs, 37 Master's programs and 17 state teaching credential programs, UCR offers a wide range of opportunities for graduate study and research. Get more information on the application process and important deadlines. Learn More International Admissions Each year, international students from more than 65 countries choose UC Riverside. We offer over 90 academic majors, highly respected advanced degrees, English language courses, and admissions counseling specifically for our international students. Learn More Professional Studies At UCR Extension, we create educational opportunities for learners of all ages. There are no admission requirements - if you have a desire to learn, you're in! Explore our online and on-campus Extension courses and enrollment information. Learn More Summer Sessions UC Riverside's Summer Sessions features over 450 available courses — including many high-demand classes — with a relaxed campus atmosphere and a convenient class schedule. Get more information on registration and important deadlines. Learn More Previous Next COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS MORE INFORMATION UNDERGRADUATE MAJORS MORE INFORMATION GRADUATE PROGRAMS MORE INFORMATION Find Your Place Our signature music festivals, talented sports teams, and one-of-a-kind student organizations all contribute to the excitement that permeates UCR. More About Campus Life Climb up the Walls UCR’s newly expanded Student Recreation Center (SRC) is bigger and better than ever — and it’s all yours! As a registered UCR student, you are automatically a member. Get Active on Campus Explore UCR There's no better way than a campus tour to get a feel for UC Riverside. Come visit us in person; schedule a tour of UCR with a current student as your expert guide. SCHEDULE A TOUR Previous Next ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Dining Discover a variety of on-campus restaurants and shops that serve tasty, nutritious, and diverse options to feed your cravings. More about Dining Housing Live in UCR’s residential communities and enjoy programs, activities and amenities to help you adjust to college, make new friends and achieve student success. Housing Information Financial Aid UCR was recently rated among the nation's most generous public universities in awarding financial aid to freshmen. Learn more about the financial aid you could receive at UCR. Financial Aid Resources About UCR UCR is a university of distinction and diversity. We are among 10 universities within the prestigious University of California system, and the only UC located in Inland Southern California. More about UCR Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel