Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Faculty, Staff and Interns » J-1 Interns Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees J-1 Intern Visa The University of Cincinnati J-1 Intern Program is designed for foreign students to participate in a structured work-based internship program in his or her specific academic field. Eligibility In order to participate in an internship program, a participant must be able to prove eligibility to intern in the United States. Interns will complete a J-1 Intern Information Form and attach proof of the following to show their eligibility. Their employer will fill out a Training/Internship Placement Plan, or DS-7002, which they will also need to sign. Demonstrate Enrollment in or Graduation from a Foreign University right arrow down arrow Interns must provide official evidence of current enrollment in a degree program at or graduation in the past 12 months from a postsecondary academic institution outside the United States. Evidence includes: Official transcript from current postsecondary academic institution Copies of transcripts from previous postsecondary academic institutions and copies of diplomas for all degrees earned (if applicable) Letter on official letterhead stationary from academic advisor, dean or registrar, in English, certifying current enrollment in accredited institution, degree level, and academic standing An academic advisor or dean at the home institution must also complete an Academic Advisor Recommendation Form. Have Adequate English Proficiency right arrow down arrow Interns are required to have English language skills in reading, writing, speaking, and listening at least at the intermediate level. The following are recommended and verifiable methods of English proficiency: TOEFL score of 66 or higher IELTS overall band score of 6.0 or higher PEARSON score of 46 or higher Cambridge English Language Assessment Test Grade C or higher Test of English for International Communication (TOEIC) score of 780 or higher Public English Test System (PETS) Grade 5 score Advanced English Training Program from the China Ministry of Education (MOE) Completion of Advanced English Training Program at a Ministry of Education Center for Overseas Study (Chinese scholars) Common European Framework of Reference for Languages: Learning, teaching, assessment (CEFR)-Score of B2 or higher A transcript showing degree completion from an academic institution where English is the means of instruction. In place of an acceptable score on an English language test, prospective interns can take the Oral English Proficiency Test for Visiting Scholars online. Demonstrate Financial Support right arrow down arrow The minimum amount of financial support for an intern is $1,500 per month. The intern will document their financial support using a financial certification form. If the employer is paying the intern a salary, the amount must be listed on the Request Form and must meet state minimum wage requirements. Financial support from other institutions or agencies must be verified by an official letter on letterhead stating the amount of support and the period of sponsorship. Personal or family funds are also acceptable sources of support. The intern must provide a bank letter indicating the amount of money they have available. If the bank account is in the intern’s name, the bank letter will be sufficient for proof of funds. If the bank account is in someone else’s name, the account holder must provide a signed letter naming the Intern and describing the amount and duration of support. All financial support documents must be recently dated, written in English or officially translated, and state the amount in U.S. dollars. Interns accompanied by dependents must provide evidence of additional funds sufficient for their support. For the spouse, an additional $333 per month is required and $166 per month is required for each child. Maintain Health Insurance right arrow down arrow Interns are required to obtain and maintain health insurance coverage for the length of the program for themselves and any accompanying dependents. Interns and any accompanying dependents must enroll in a Health Insurance Plan that meets the requirements set forth by the Exchange Visitor Program requirements. Interns insured by a sponsor will need to provide evidence of insurance with the J-1 Intern Information Form upon arrival. Interns who are paid by the University of Cincinnati for 12 months may qualify for UC’s employee insurance for themselves and any accompanying dependents. For more information, contact the UC hiring department about the terms of benefits. State Intent to Return Home right arrow down arrow The intern regulations specifically state that “the intern will return to the academic program and fulfill and obtain a degree from such academic institution after completion of the Internship program.” Interns must attest that they intend to return home following the completion of the internship on the J-1 Intern Information Form. Other Documentation right arrow down arrow Program fee (if applicable; make check payable to the University of Cincinnati) Current résumé If in the United States in the past 24 months in Exchange Visitor status, copies of supporting documents (DS-2019, Visa stamp, I-797, etc.) Signed Training/Internship Placement Plan (Form DS-7002) Online Orientation Before you start working, understand your visa fully. Watch our online orientation to learn more. Start with UC International If you'd like to apply for an internship or hire an intern, talk to UC International first. We will provide you with the necessary documents and walk you through the process. UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top