Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Clemson Online Clemson Online Featured News Quality Matters at Clemson QM Course Reviews Available for all Online and Hybrid Courses Quality Matters (QM) is a nationally recognized non-profit organization “specializing in standards, processes and professional development for quality assurance in online and blended learning.” In short: they create standards, based on research, for measuring the effectiveness of online course design. A QM course review is a peer-driven, comprehensive examination of an online or hybrid course, using the QM Rubric. The review does NOT analyze the course content. In other words, reviewers will not be looking at an instructor's personal pedagogy or judging whether they are a “good” teacher. The review focuses strictly on the design of the course, with particular emphasis on alignment among your course outcomes, assessments, tools, etc. Clemson Online conducts two types of reviews: Internal - courses are reviewed by trained Clemson Online QM peer reviewers and can earn the "QM Essentials" certification and badge. Official - this is the external QM quality course certification process, and the courses are reviewed by a team that will include one reviewer external to Clemson. For each type of review, the review team will examine your course from a learner perspective, and offer suggestions for improving the design of your course. Still unsure if a review is right for you? Read on: The QM review rubric contains eight General Standards that assess quality in every aspect of an online course: learning outcomes, alignment among course and unit components, accessibility, assessments, and more. The rubric is backed by research and can apply to both fully online and blended/hybrid course modalities. Many principles of quality online teaching are also directly transferable to face to face courses, so QM reviews can have positive impacts beyond the reviewed course. You can read more at the QM website: "Why Quality Matters." Get in touch with Clemson Online today - email Sharyn Emery with any questions or to get started. Mission Clemson Online provides expertise and personalized faculty support to create and sustain unique learning opportunities and environments. Vision Clemson Online will further the development of globally recognized, competitive, and innovative educational experiences, thereby making Clemson University accessible to all students and extending the land grant mission. Awards we've received Calendar of Events New Instructor Conference 2022 COFFEE Faculty Training Series Academic Continuity Student Feedback Survey (External link) Accessibility & Compliance Recent News Effective Textbook Use Follow Up Friday Designing Backward Follow Up Friday Kaltura Advanced Tweets by ClemsonOnline Home Programs Tools Students Faculty Contact Events Follow Clemson Online Clemson Online's Wordpress Clemson Online's Facebook Clemson Online's Twitter Clemson Online's Instagram Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram