Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information How Columbia’s “Hip Hop Doc” Is Raising Stroke Awareness By 1 July 11, 2013 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email In an article in Scientific American’s “Talking Back Blog” published yesterday, writer Gary Stix highlights the work of Columbia’s Dr. Olajide Williams, who has developed a public health campaign that uses hip hop music to teach children to identify stroke symptoms: Olajide Williams, chief of staff of neurology at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, but better known nationally as the “Hip Hop Doc,” devised the [Hip-Hop Stroke program] in collaboration with the National Stroke Association, drawing in rappers such as Doug E. Fresh to help get the word out. “The highest risk for stroke is among blacks,” Williams says. “Blacks have the highest incidence. They have the highest mortality. It’s really hard to design programs that address this issue in black communities. The Hip-Hop Stroke program is very culturally appropriate for addressing it.” With funding from the National Institutes of Health, Williams is now building on the earlier research to spearhead a randomized controlled trial of hip-hop. The study will involve 3,000 pupils in New York City schools, some to be exposed to the program, others exempted to a control group, in an attempt to compile gold-standard evidence of the effectiveness of hip-hop as a teaching tool for stroke prevention. If effective, similar programs might be set up in school districts nationwide. Dr. Williams has published papers in Neurology and Stroke which, as Stix notes, “have documented that the chanting of the hip-hop artist can be an effective pedagogic tool.” Watch Dr. Williams and Elizabeth Cohn, RN, DNS, assistant professor at the Columbia University School of Nursing, talk about the Hip-Hop Stroke Program. Hip Hop Public Health: National Stroke Awareness Month Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top