Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Engineering Computer Science Access Course Offerings COS 109 / EGR 109 Computers in Our World Professor/InstructorBrian W. Kernighan Computers are all around us. How does this affect the world we live in? This course is a broad introduction to computing technology for humanities and social science students. Topics will be drawn from current issues and events, and will include discussion of how computers work, what programming is and why it is hard, how the Internet and the Web work, security and privacy. Two 90-minute lectures. Self-scheduled computer laboratory. COS 126 / EGR 126 Computer Science: An Interdisciplinary Approach Professor/InstructorDavid I. August, Adam Finkelstein An introduction to computer science in the context of scientific, engineering, and commercial applications. The course will teach basic principles and practical issues, and will prepare students to use computers effectively for applications in computer science, physics, biology, chemistry, engineering, and other disciplines. Topics include: hardware and software systems; programming in Java; algorithms and data structures; fundamental principles of computation; and scientific computing, including simulation, optimization, and data analysis. No prior programming experience required. Video lectures, one or two classes, two preceptorials. COS 217 Introduction to Programming Systems Professor/InstructorChristopher M. Moretti, Szymon M. Rusinkiewicz An introduction to computer organization and system software. The former includes topics such as processor and memory organization, input/output devices, and interrupt structures. The latter includes assemblers, loaders, libraries, and compilers. Programming assignments are implemented in assembly language and C using the UNIX operating system. Three lectures. Prerequisite: 126 or instructor's permission. COS 226 Algorithms and Data Structures Professor/InstructorKevin Wayne This course surveys the most important algorithms and data structures in use on computers today. Particular emphasis is given to algorithms for sorting, searching, and string processing. Fundamental algorithms in a number of other areas are covered as well, including geometric algorithms, graph algorithms, and some numerical algorithms. The course will concentrate on developing implementations, understanding their performance characteristics, and estimating their potential effectiveness in applications. Two online lectures, two class meetings, one precept. ISC 231 / CHM 231 / COS 231 / MOL 231 / PHY 231 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC231 and ISC232 in the fall and ISC233 and ISC234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with calculus at the level of MAT103/104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 232 / CHM 232 / COS 232 / MOL 232 / PHY 232 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences I Professor/InstructorThomas Gregor, Joshua Akey, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics, chemistry, molecular biology, and computer science. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 233 / CHM 233 / COS 233 / MOL 233 / PHY 233 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214, and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ISC 234 / CHM 234 / COS 234 / MOL 234 / PHY 234 An Integrated, Quantitative Introduction to the Natural Sciences II Professor/InstructorJoshua William Shaevitz, Olga G. Troyanskaya, Martin Helmut Wühr An integrated, mathematically and computationally sophisticated introduction to physics and chemistry, drawing on examples from biological systems. Alternative to the combination of PHY 103-104, CHM 201-202, MOL 214 and COS 126. Students must enroll in ISC 231 and ISC 232 in the fall and ISC 233 and ISC 234 in the spring. Prerequisites: familiarity with the calculus at the level of MAT 103-104 or Advanced Placement Calculus BC, solid high school physics and chemistry courses. Five lectures, one three-hour laboratory, one three-hour computational laboratory, one evening problem session. ELE 206 / COS 306 Contemporary Logic Design Professor/InstructorSharad Malik Logic circuits are at the heart of modern computing and communication chips. These deliver valuable societal solutions in several key areas: in information retrieval and processing using smart phones and cloud computing; in smart sensing and control as in emerging chips for human health care; and in critical security applications such as protecting infrastructures like the internet and energy production/distribution systems. Foundational aspects of logic design; contemporary design principles and practices. Three lectures, one laboratory. Prerequisite: an introductory programming course, or equivalent programming experience. MUS 314 / COS 314 Computer and Electronic Music through Programming, Performance, and Composition Professor/InstructorDaniel Laurence Trueman, Jeffrey Owen Snyder An introduction to the fundamentals of computer and electronic music in the context of the Princeton Laptop Orchestra (PLOrk). The music and sound programming language ChucK, developed here at Princeton, will be used in conjunction with Max/MSP, another digital audio language, to study procedural programming, digital signal processing and synthesis, networking, and human-computer interfacing. COS 318 Operating Systems Professor/InstructorJaswinder Pal Singh A study of the design and analysis of operating systems. Topics include: processes, mutual exclusion, synchronization, semaphores, monitors, deadlock prevention and detection, memory management, virtual memory, processor scheduling, disk management, file systems, security, protection, distributed systems. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 217 and 226 or instructor's permission. COS 320 Compiling Techniques Professor/InstructorZachary Kincaid The principal algorithms and concepts associated with translator systems. Topics include lexical analysis, syntactic analysis, parsing techniques, symbol table management, code generation and optimization, run time system design, implementation issues related to programming language design. Course will include a large-scale programming project utilizing the above topics. Three lectures. Prerequisites: 217 and 226 or instructor's permission. ORF 363 / COS 323 Computing and Optimization for the Physical and Social Sciences Professor/Instructor An introduction to several fundamental and practically-relevant areas of numerical computing with an emphasis on the role of modern optimization. Topics include computational linear algebra, descent methods, basics of linear and semidefinite programming, optimization for statistical regression and classification, trajectory optimization for dynamical systems, and techniques for dealing with uncertainty and intractability in optimization problems. Extensive hands-on experience with high-level optimization software. Applications drawn from operations research, statistics, finance, economics, control theory, and engineering. A. Ahmadi, COS 326 Functional Programming Professor/InstructorAndrew Wilson Appel An introduction to the principles of typed functional programming. Programming recursive functions over structured data types and informal reasoning by induction about the correctness of those functions. Functional algorithms and data structures. Principles of modular programming, type abstraction, representation invariants and representation independence. Parallel functional programming, algorithms and applications. COS 333 Advanced Programming Techniques Professor/InstructorRobert M. Dondero Jr. The practice of programming. Emphasis is on the development of real programs, writing code but also assessing tradeoffs, choosing among design alternatives, debugging and testing, and improving performance. Issues include compatibility, robustness, and reliability, while meeting specifications. Students will have the opportunity to develop skills in these areas by working on their own code and in group projects. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 217 and 226 (as corequisite). COS 340 Reasoning about Computation Professor/InstructorRan Raz An introduction to mathematical topics relevant to computer science. Combinatorics and probability will be covered in the context of computer science applications. The course will present a computer science approach to thinking and modeling through such topics as dealing with uncertainty in data and handling large data sets. Students will be introduced to fundamental concepts such as NP-completeness and cryptography that arise from the world view of efficient computation. Prerequisites COS 126 and 226 (or sufficient mathematical background), and MAT 202 or MAT 204 or MAT 217. COS 226 can be taken along with COS 340 in the same term. MAT 375 / COS 342 Introduction to Graph Theory Professor/InstructorPaul Seymour The fundamental theorems and algorithms of graph theory. Topics include: connectivity, matchings, graph coloring, planarity, the four-color theorem, extremal problems, network flows, and related algorithms. Prerequisite: MAT202 or 204 or 217 or equivalent. SPI 351 / SOC 353 / COS 351 Information Technology and Public Policy Professor/InstructorEdward William Felten New technologies have changed the way we communicate with each other and learn about our world. They have also raised public policy dilemmas in every area they touch: communications, regulation, privacy, national security, intellectual property and many others. This course is predicated on the belief that we can only productively address the social and policy dimensions of the Internet if we understand the technology behind the Internet; the social-science concepts and research that illuminate the likely effects of policy options; and tradeoffs among fundamental values that different policy options imply. Two ninety-minute seminars. COS 375 / ELE 375 Computer Architecture and Organization Professor/Instructor An introduction to computer architecture and organization. Instruction set design; basic processor implementation techniques; performance measurement; caches and virtual memory; pipelined processor design; design trade-offs among cost, performance, and complexity. Two 90-minute classes, one self-scheduled hardware laboratory. Prerequisites: COS 217. ELE 381 / COS 381 Networks: Friends, Money and Bytes Professor/Instructor This course is oriented around 20 practical questions in the social, economic, and technological networks in our daily lives. How does Google sell ad spaces and rank webpages? How does Netflix recommend movies and Amazon rank products? How do I influence people on Facebook and Twitter? Why doesn't the Internet collapse under congestion, and does it have an Achilles heel? Why does each gigabyte of mobile data cost $10, but Skype is free? How come Wi-Fi is slower at hotspots than at home, and what is inside the cloud of iCloud? In formulating and addressing these questions, we introduce the fundamental concepts behind the networking industry. ELE 396 / COS 396 Introduction to Quantum Computing Professor/InstructorJeffrey Douglas Thompson This course will introduce the matrix form of quantum mechanics and discuss the concepts underlying the theory of quantum information. Some of the important algorithms will be discussed, as well as physical systems which have been suggested for quantum computing. Three lectures. Prerequisite: Linear algebra at the level of MAT 202, 204, 217, or the equivalent. COS 397 Junior Independent Work (B.S.E. candidates only) Professor/InstructorDavid Paul Dobkin, Robert S. Fish Offered in the fall, juniors are provided with an opportunity to concentrate on a "state-of-the-art" project in computer science. Topics may be selected from suggestions by faculty members or proposed by the student. B.S.E. candidates only. COS 398 Junior Independent Work (B.S.E. candidates only) Professor/InstructorAarti Gupta, Robert S. Fish Offered in the spring, juniors are provided with an opportunity to concentrate on a "state-of-the-art" project in computer science. Topics may be selected from suggestions by faculty members or proposed by the student. B.S.E. candidates only. COS 402 Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence Professor/Instructor This course will provide a basic introduction to the core principles, algorithms and techniques of modern artificial intelligence and machine learning research and practice. Main topics will include: 1. Problem solving using search, with applications to game playing 2. Probabilistic reasoning in the presence of uncertainty 3. Hidden Markov models and speech recognition 4. Markov decision processes and reinforcement learning 5. Machine learning using decision trees, neural nets and more. 6. Basic principles of mathematical optimization for learning. Prerequisites- COS 226 and COS 340 COS 423 Theory of Algorithms Professor/InstructorRobert Endre Tarjan Design and analysis of efficient data structures and algorithms. General techniques for building and analyzing algorithms. Introduction to NP-completeness. Two 90-minute lectures. Prerequisites: 226 and 340 or instructor's permission. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice