<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Perspectives Perspectives Bridgette Slater JD/MBA 2022 Video Video Home Region Washington, D.C. Undergrad Education Harvard College, BA, 2015 Previous Experience Boston Consulting Group HBS Activities African American Student Union (AASU), Food, Agriculture & Water Club (FAW), JD/MBA Association, Women's Student Association (WSA) “My life's purpose is to...enter the boardroom to realize my vision for more inclusivity in the food supply chain.” Why did you choose this path at this point in time? I was restless to start my joint degree journey at both HBS and HLS. Since the JD/MBA at Harvard is a four-year program, it was not lost on me that I would be in graduate school twice as long as my MBA classmates, and I was ready to jumpstart that adventure. Also, over the course of my years in consulting, I developed a concrete vision of the work I wanted to pursue – something along the lines of ethical sourcing of agricultural products, namely chocolate, coffee, and tea – and graduate school emerged as a way to pivot into this more specific path. Coming to HBS is like... ...a prolonged summer camp. HBS is overflowing with the unbridled enthusiasm of students eager to deepen our self-awareness, explore beyond our comfort zone, and develop meaningful relationships with peers outside our immediate neighborhood. Here, we get to learn from fascinating professors, challenge our intellectual limits, and rediscover our passions or venture into new ones. Finally, at the end of the “summer,” we depart from our time at HBS with a collection of lasting memories full of section inside jokes, sentimental songs, and boisterous chants. Being part of the HBS community is like... ...bungee jumping. If you decide to make a bold move or take a risk, you may feel yourself in free fall at first, but you also feel confident taking that massive leap of faith because of your belief in the HBS community, especially your section, to spring you back up to safety. As a kid, what did you want to be when you grew up? I wanted to be an astronaut (thank you, Mae Jemison, for that inspiration!), architect, actor, and author. I clearly really liked alliteration as a kid and still do as an adult. Also, since I’m in law school too right now, I suppose I should add attorney to this list. What is your favorite childhood memory? Watching movies with my grandmother. She and I have a dream to one day visit Prince Edward Island in Canada together because we love the Anne of Green Gables movies (the 1985 TV mini-series version to be exact) and the novels that inspired them. Who is one person from your life that you admire the most today? My grandmother, a determined Black woman full of compassion and charisma. She is a force of nature, who went back to school to pursue her doctorate degree in education after her five children were grown. She’s a breast cancer survivor. She served in the Arkansas State Legislature and her advocacy led to the passage of the state’s Breast Cancer Act in 1997, which later facilitated the creation of BreastCare, a program that provides free breast/cervical screenings and diagnoses to eligible women. I admire her accomplishments, but I admire her humility and generous spirit most of all. What’s the best thing about your hometown? Growing up in Washington D.C., I always enjoyed how culturally diverse and international it felt. As the home of so many embassies and as the nation’s capital, D.C. is a bustling hub that brings together a mix of diplomats, international tourists, and immigrants from all around the world. It is not uncommon to find varied global cuisine or hear several different languages all while walking down a single street. But, in thinking of hometowns, I must also mention Arkansas, which is where my roots are, where my family is, and the land to which I feel most spiritually connected. It is a special place full of tight-knit community and Southern hospitality – plus you can’t go for more than 10 minutes without running into someone who knows you, your parents, your grandparents, aunts/uncles, cousins, etc. Topics Agribusiness Law Consulting Home Region Washington, D.C. Undergrad Education Harvard College, BA, 2015 Previous Experience Boston Consulting Group HBS Activities African American Student Union (AASU), Food, Agriculture & Water Club (FAW), JD/MBA Association, Women's Student Association (WSA) Topics Agribusiness Law Consulting ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College