Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller PhD Program Milestones Home » Programs » PhD » Program Milestones Menu PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Successful completion of a PhD program requires you to demonstrate the capacity to do high-quality independent academic work. Below is a description of the PhD program milestones, designed to guide you in your training to determine the status and continuity of the PhD program and ensure the successful and timely completion of your degree. Description of Program Milestones First Year Research Project First Research Proposal Submission Under the direction of at least one area faculty, a research proposal must be prepared and submitted to the area PhD Coordinator outlining the tentative research questions to be explored in the first-year research paper. First-year Student Review This review reflects course work, research activities, and performance of GRA/GTA duties. The assessment reflects the input of all area faculty. A written assessment will be reviewed with the student and placed in his/her file. First Research Paper Submission A written document describing the work must be available to all area faculty. First Research Paper Presentation Each student makes a presentation of his or her first-year paper at a meeting open to all College faculty. The presentation is assessed by all area faculty. Second Year Research Project Second Research Proposal Submission Under the direction of at least one area faculty, a one-page research proposal must be prepared and submitted to the area PhD Coordinator outlining the tentative research questions to be explored in the second-year research paper. Second-year Student Review This review reflects course work (including PhD seminars), research activities, results of comprehensive exams, and performance of GRA/GTA duties. The assessment reflects the input of all area faculty. A written assessment will be reviewed with the student and placed in his/her file. Second Research Paper Submission A written document describing the work must be available to all area faculty. Second Research Paper Presentation Each student makes a presentation of his or her second-year paper at a meeting open to all College faculty. The presentation is assessed by all area faculty. PhD Comprehensive Exam PhD Comprehensive Exam and Candidacy By the end of the second year, you must pass an examination measuring your depth of knowledge and comprehension of your chosen field’s methodology, theoretical construction, and empirical evidence. Annual Student Reviews Third-year and Subsequent Annual Student Reviews The review of students at the end of the third year reflects course work, research activities, performance of GRA/GTA duties, and any teaching experiences. The assessment reflects the input of all area faculty. A written assessment will be reviewed with the student and placed in his/her file. PhD Dissertation Proposal for the PhD Dissertation With guidance from the faculty, you will develop a Proposal for the PhD Dissertation. The Proposal should demonstrate that you have the ability to (1) think independently, (2) take the initiative to develop and structure a research problem, rigorous solution, and analysis, (3) write the research in a clear, organized and concise manner representative of papers published in major academic journals, and (4) make a research presentation close to the quality necessary for successful job interviews. Advancement to candidacy for the doctoral degree is a judgment by the faculty of the student’s potential to successfully complete the requirements of the degree program. Dissertation Execution and Defense Once you have successfully presented a dissertation proposal, you must follow the final steps needed to complete the PhD degree. You are expected to complete their PhD Dissertations by the end of your fourth or fifth year. You will present your doctoral research at an oral defense open to the entire faculty in the Scheller College of Business. You will qualify for a PhD upon successful defense of your dissertation. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures