Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Violence Prevention Prevention Prevention A significant tier of the work of Sexual Violence Response is prevention: erasing sexual violence from our culture, society, and community. Effective prevention entails educating individuals to understand the definitions and dynamics of each of the topics below: Consent Sexual assault Domestic and dating violence Stalking Sexual harassment Bystander intervention Programming and Workshops Sexual Violence Response has more than 75 program offerings, including interactive workshops, in-depth training sessions, and film screenings with discussion. Workshops are available at no cost for students of Columbia University, Barnard College, Teachers College, Jewish Theological Seminary, and Union Theological Seminary. Workshops are divided into three categories: Impact Workshops are foundational sessions that cover definitions and dynamics of consent, sexual violence, dating violence, stalking, and harassment. CU Step UP! Workshops cover bystander intervention and community accountability. Next Level Workshops explore contributing factors and nuances of sexual violence and relationship dynamics. Sexual Violence Response can also develop a unique program or tailor an existing one to meet the needs of a group. This process typically takes a minimum of four weeks to develop. The Workshop Request Form must be submitted at least two weeks prior to the requested date, and the location must be reserved and confirmed at least one week in advance. Programs will be facilitated by student volunteers and/or professional staff. Request a Workshop Students who want to book a program for their group, organization, or community, should submit a Workshop Request Form. Faculty and staff can submit a request by emailing [email protected]. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close