COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Discover WSU Section Menu Discover WSU Home Office of the President About Wichita Calendar of Events Shocker Pet Pathway Shocker Pods Placemaking Request Donation Parking Stop Video Go on our virtual campus tour and explore our interactive map.Take the tour At Wichita State, there’s something for everyone. From the arts and athletics to research and retail—WSU’s the ideal place for students, university partners and the community to learn, work, live and play. Check out what we offer: Upcoming Events Alumni Events Partnership Opportunities Things to discover Take a tour We'd love to show you all the great things happening on our campus! Contact us today to set up a tour for you, your company or organization. Shocker athletics Feel the energy of Shocker Nation fans at Koch Arena for basketball and volleyball, or enjoy a beautiful spring day on the Eck Stadium hillside for Shocker Baseball. Art and museums Wichita State is a haven for arts, culture and museums—providing an unmatched environment where you can enjoy a wide range of performances, exhibits and history. Dining options Dining options are diverse and delicious. With options available on and off campus—early or late—a meal, snack or caffeine fix is always within reach. Braeburn Square The Braeburn Square mixed-use development has made WSU a dining and shopping destination for all of Wichita. GoCreate GoCreate is a premier makerspace open to creators of all ages and experiences. You don’t have to be a student to make it here. YMCA and Student Wellness NOW OPEN! The Steve Clark YMCA and Student Wellness Center is now open to the community. Pet Pathway Walking paths designated for you and your four-legged friend on WSU's main campus. Where to park Parking on campus is easier than ever. Visitors to Braeburn Square or the Shocker Pet Pathway can park at Braeburn Square. Starbucks patrons can park for up to two hours at Starbucks. We also offer pay-to-park on the second and third floors of the parking garage near the Rhatigan Student Center. Learn more about parking Visit our interactive campus map What's new on campus: Hyatt Place Make yourself at home with Hyatt Place at Wichita State University. Located on the Innovation Campus, you are within walking distance of Koch Arena, Eck Stadium and Campus Housing. Read more Upcoming events Discover WSU on Facebook Discover WSU on Twitter Tweets by discoverwsu Discover WSU on Instagram Have a creative idea? Share an idea with us Newsletter Sign-up Stay up-to-date on all the events, resources and fun open to the whole community. If you see this don't fill out this input box. First and Last Name* Email Address*Form UUID Site Name Subscribe 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©