Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator TERMS AND CONDITIONS All students who receive financial assistance are responsible for understanding and agreeing to the following terms and conditions, failing to read the policy does not lessen the students responsibility set below. The Terms and Conditions policy is subject to change based on federal and state regulations for financial aid assistance. We encourage our students to review this policy at least on a yearly basis. If you have questions regarding the policy, please contact the Office of Financial Aid. You understand that an offer of financial aid for any academic year is contingent on the availability of funds. You must re-apply and re-establish eligibility for financial aid each award year. As a financial aid recipient, you understand that funds received from an outside source or agency for educational expenses (i.e. scholarships, fee waivers, Voc Rehab assistance, etc.) must coordinated with all other aid offered. The coordination of these additional resources may result in changes to the types and amounts of financial aid initially offered by CSU Fullerton. If you are a Pell Grant recipient, you understand that there is a lifetime maximum eligibility of six years. You understand that if you are awarded a State University grant, you must be enrolled in a minimum of 6 units each term to receive payment (applies to undergraduate, credential, and graduate students). CSU System-Wide Regulations limit these funds to eligible students for up to: a. 150 completed units of enrollment for undergraduate students (75 completed units for transfer students). b. 30 completed units for teacher credential students. c. varies for graduate students (125% completed units of the required program length). d. Students completing a 2nd bachelor’s credential, masters, or doctorate degree are not eligible. You understand that once financial aid funds are available for payment (typically seven days before classes start), financial aid will be credited to your student account to pay for your mandatory fees and any other outstanding obligations related to your educational expenses at CSU Fullerton. By accepting the aid you authorize CSU Fullerton to automatically apply your financial aid funds to the amounts necessary to pay for enrollment fees, other fees (including the New Student Orientation fee), and other educationally-related financial obligations owed to the University. If you are a Cal Grant B Access recipient, you may rescind this authorization with written notification to the CSUF Office of Financial Aid. If your financial aid disbursement does not cover the balance due, you are responsible for payment to the University. You understand that financial aid is available for payment only if: a. You are officially admitted (not provisionally or conditionally admitted). b. You are enrolled in classes during the semester(s) indicated on your award letter. c. Meet all other disbursement requirements. d. You understand that financial aid offered is based on full-time enrollment and that payments may be adjusted for part-time enrollment. If you are offered student loan funds you understand that: a. Undergraduates and Credential students must be enrolled in a minimum of six (6) units throughout the loan period to be eligible to receive loan funds. b. Graduate students courses are weighted, and the weighted total must be at least 6 units. (Typically 4 units of graduate (500) level courses are the equivalent of 6 units.) You understand that a condition to receive financial aid requires that you must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress standards, according to policies established by the CSU Fullerton Office of Financial Aid and consistent with federal guidelines. These policies are: a. Completion of a minimum number of units based on your enrollment status. b. An evaluation of academic progress based on cumulative grade point average. c. A maximum time frame for receiving financial aid to complete your degree objective. You understand that should you withdraw from classes following payment of financial aid, you may be subject to repayment of funds already received based on the Return to Title IV calculations and you may jeopardize your future eligibility for financial aid due to lack of achieving satisfactory academic progress. You understand that you may receive financial aid at only one school for the same period of enrollment. You understand that the Office of Financial Aid reserves the right to review, modify or cancel financial aid offered at any time due to changes in your financial status, eligibility for financial aid, or changes in federal, state or institutional fund availability. In addition, your financial aid offered may be void or one or more financial aid program(s) may be canceled or modified if the aid offered was based on any error in determining eligibility or the amount of financial aid offered, whether or not the error was made by you or the CSUF Office of Financial Aid. By receiving a form of financial aid, you acknowledge that you understand and agree to the terms and conditions. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.