Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home CAA Hong Kong | Mai Po Nature Reserve Visit Events Past Event CAA Hong Kong | Mai Po Nature Reserve Visit Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo January 15, 2022 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM Asia/Hong_Kong Off-campus We hope you can join us on this Mai Po Nature Reserve trip. Located on the northwestern corner of Hong Kong, the Mai Po and Inner Deep Bay wetlands are recognised as a Wetland of International Importance under the prestigious Ramsar Convention. For more than three decades, Mai Po Nature Reserve has been a paradise for birds and a beautiful, irreplaceable piece of China’s wetland kaleidoscope. We will learn about this beautiful piece of wetland in Hong Kong and its importance to the habitat, and to watch shore boards, mudskippers and tidal ecology from a floating bird hide. We have arranged for a CUAAHK-exclusive, educational guided tour from 10am-2pm (including around 5 km of walking). The tour will be conducted in English - please bring along a light snack/lunch. RSVP: https://hongkong.alumni.columbia.edu/mai_po_nature_reserve_visit We hope you can join us on this Mai Po Nature Reserve trip. Located on the northwestern corner of Hong Kong, the Mai Po and Inner Deep Bay wetlands are recognized as a Wetland of International Importance under the prestigious Ramsar Convention. For more than three decades, Mai Po Nature Reserve has been a paradise for birds and a beautiful, irreplaceable piece of China’s wetland kaleidoscope. We will learn about this beautiful piece of wetland in Hong Kong and its importance to the habitat, and watch shore boards, mudskippers, and tidal ecology from a floating bird hide. We have arranged for a CUAAHK-exclusive, educational guided tour from 10 a.m.-2 p.m. (including around 5 km of walking). The tour will be conducted in English—please bring along a light snack/lunch. Contact Information CAA Hong Kong [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close