Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Herff College of Engineering About Future Students Students Programs Research Alumni News | Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Future Students Choose Your Major Visit the College Apply to the UofM Scholarships & Fellowships Student Life FAQs Take Action Visit Herff Apply to UofM Orientation 2022 Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Herff College of Engineering Future Students Pursue Excellence in Engineering Thank you for your interest in the Herff College of Engineering! As a student at Herff, you will experience small class sizes, a diverse faculty and student body; be taught by professors who are proven experts in their subject area; and have access to internships, service and research opportunities distinctly offered in a major metropolitan area. Herff students graduate ready to join a global workforce and tackle some of the world's most pressing engineering challenges. Your first step when considering the Herff College of Engineering is to schedule an on-campus visit. We invite you to learn more about our five academic program areas, available scholarships, and opportunities for student involvement specific to engineering students. Additional information >Click here for the 2020 Herff Viewbook for Prospective students (English version) >Click here for the 2020 Herff Viewbook for Prospective students (Spanish version) >Haga clic aquí Colegio de Herff del Ingeniero Viewbook 2020. Aprenda más sobre los programas ofrecidos en nuestro Colegio Herff en escala nacional clasificado de la Ingeniería en la universidad de Memphis. A recent student panel of Herff Ambassadors talking to prospective students resulted in a list of great questions and answers we found relevant to future students. From living on campus to salary after graduation, check out the Q & A with Herff Ambassadors. Finally, when you are ready to take action and make Herff your new home, click here to apply. Important Links Herff as an undergraduate student Herff as a graduate student Undergraduate and Graduate Student Computer Requirements Every year, software tools become more entwined with the practice of the engineering profession. In addition to preparing our students for professional practice by teaching them how to use these tools, our undergraduate curricula employ software tools to efficiently and effectively deliver subject matter expertise, enhance student-teacher interaction, assess student learning, and increase student achievement. Therefore, the Herff College of Engineering faculty requires that each student enrolled in the college's programs possess computing resources that meet or exceed certain minimum specifications. Any student enrolled in engineering courses is expected to be able to bring to class a computer that supports the use of software in a classroom environment. Specific requirements may vary by program. Contact the Department of your Major if you have specific questions. Recommended System: Operating System: Windows 10 Processor: Intel Core i7 RAM: 8GB GPU: NVidia Graphics Card with 1GB memory Hard Drive: Solid State Drive (SSD) 256GB Network: IEEE 802.11g wireless capability Display: 15 inch with resolution of 1920x1080 (1080p) Minimum System: Operating System: Windows 10 Processor: Any Intel or AMD x86-64 processor (64-bit) RAM: 4GB GPU: None Specified Hard Drive: 256GB Hard Drive Network: IEEE 802.11g wireless capability Display: 14 inch UofM Student Discounts As part of The University of Memphis MATLAB site license, all faculty, staff, and students have access to hands-on learning through Online Training Courses - at no extra cost. The University of Memphis MATLAB Portal As part of The University of Memphis MATLAB site license, all faculty, staff, and students have access to hands-on learning through Online Training Courses - at no extra cost. Our Online Training Courses allow new and existing users to learn to use MATLAB effectively. Courses include interactive MATLAB exercises for fast and relevant learning. Quizzes test your knowledge and provide immediate feedback. These online courses are intended for beginning users as well as those looking for more in-depth training. Available courses: • MATLAB Onramp • MATLAB Fundamentals • MATLAB for Financial Applications • MATLAB Programming Techniques • MATLAB for Data Processing and Visualization • Solving Ordinary Differential Equations with MATLAB • Introduction to Linear Algebra with MATLAB • Introduction to Statistical Methods with MATLAB • Solving Nonlinear Equations with MATLAB MATLAB installation is not required. Just log in with your MathWorks account to begin. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/19/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.