Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Ignatian Society Home Faith Communities Catholic Ignatian Society The Ignatian Society of Boston College serves to promote the spirit and tradition of St. Ignatius and the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits). Our work focuses on two key areas: Keeping graduates from Jesuit high schools connected to their BC peers, and promoting the tenets of Jesuit spirituality across the wider BC campus. Patrick Downes, BC '05, Psy.D., gave the Ignatian Society's inaugural AMDG Lecture. Downes, BC High '01, was injured in the Boston Marathon bombing alongside his wife, Jessica Kensky. Facts and Figures 42 Jesuit high schools represented at BC 641 BC undergraduates attended a Jesuit high school 85 Students attended lunch in St. Mary's Hall with us last year Many of our programs — including the popular Weekly Examen and the Lunches with the Jesuits series — are open to the entire campus. We encourage you to join us as we together seek the greater glory of God. Examen Lunches with Jesuits Service Alumni Programs E-Board The Weekly Examen, on Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 9:45 p.m., is one of our most popular programs and is considered a foundation of Ignatian spirituality. St. Ignatius thought that, if we were to offer no other prayer, we should at least pray the Examen daily. The Ignatian Society’s Weekly Examen—held in the Manresa House—is 15-minutes of peer-led reflection looking over the course of one’s week, recognizing God in our lives, and closing with a commitment to seeking the magis in the days ahead. All are welcome! The Lunches with Jesuits program offers students the chance to have lunch with a member of the Jesuit Community at Boston College. The lunches are held weekly throughout the semester in the Manresa House. Groups of four to six students are hosted by one of the Jesuits for great food and candid conversation. It’s an excellent way for students who haven’t yet met a Jesuit to do so. If you are interested in attending, contact ignatian@bc.edu. The Ignatian Society sponsors a monthly service opportunity to Jesuit works in the Greater Boston area. We regularly visit the Campion Health Center for conversation and fellowship with retired Jesuits. The members of the Jesuit Community living at Campion are always very grateful to see students from Boston College. All are invited to join us for a visit with these great Jesuits who have dedicated their lives to the greater honor and glory of God. BC students’ presence inspires them and they, in turn, are a source of great inspiration for us. The Ignatian Society's Alumni Programs committee organizes and facilitates events for the 600+ Jesuit high school alumni at Boston College. These events include our annual Jesuit high school barbecue, high school “reunion” dinners, and other opportunities for fellowship. Alumni Engagement: Justin Keith '22, Fairfield Prep '18; Mason Adore '24, Georgetown Prep '20; Teddy Bobroske '23; Fairfield Prep '19; Davis Goetcheus '22, Gonzaga College HS '18; Tommy Shriver '22, Georgetown Prep '18. Examen: Corbin Bernal '23, Brophy Prep '19; Jack Clark '24, Scranton Prep '20; Riley Davis '24, Regis Jesuit '20. Formation: Brett Berger '22, St. Xavier '18; John DeAngelis '23, Fordham Prep '19; Annie Zitella '24, Loyola Academy '20. Lunches with Jesuits: Kelly Connolly '24, St. Ignatius San Francisco '20; Matthew Martinez '24, Brophy Prep '20. Operations: Noah Spiez '23, Canisius '19. Women's Initiatives: Susie Driscoll '22, Loyola Academy '18. President: Bridget Clark '22, Scranton Prep '18. Advisor: Ryan Heffernan Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College