Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Testicular Self-Exams What is TSE and why do it? TSE is a simple and effective way to recognize the early signs and symptoms of testicular cancer. Testicular cancer is one of the most frequently occurring types of cancer in people with testes ages 18 to 35 and can occur anytime after the age of 15. And if it is caught early, testicular cancer is one of the most curable forms of cancer. What are the risk factors for testicular cancer? There is evidence that the risk of testicular cancer is higher in people whose testicles did not descend normally. That means that during childhood development the testicles did not move down from the lower abdomen into the scrotum. For this reason, surgery is often performed to correct this problem before the testicle has been left undescended for very long. According to the National Cancer Institute, race/ethnic background can be another risk factor. The incidence rate (out of 100,000) for testicular cancer is 6.5 for White men; 3.4 for Latino men; 2.6 for American Indian/Alaskan Native men; 2.1 for Asian/Pacific Islander men and 1.2 for African American men. The reason for different incidence rates is unknown and continues to be researched. Other risk factors for testicular cancer include: Family history Occupational risks Cancer of the other testicle Injury to the testicles HIV infection When should I perform TSE and how often? TSE should be performed once a month after a warm bath or shower. The heat causes the scrotal skin to relax, making it easier to find anything unusual. The procedure itself is simple and should only take a few minutes. It may help you to remember to do TSE if you choose a date each month that's easy to remember like your birth date or the first of each month. Performing TSE on a regular basis will allow you to become familiar with the size and feeling of your testicles and can help you detect any changes if they occur. How do I perform TSE and what am I looking for? TSE is simple to perform and can quickly become a part of your routine. You can also ask a partner if they would perform TSE for you. Examine each testicle separately. Using both hands, put your thumbs on top of the testicle and the pads of your fingers under and behind the testicle. Gently slide or roll the skin of the scrotum across the testicle. Do not rub. Examine the entire area of the testicle. The surface should feel smooth, without lumps or tenderness. Feel the side of the testicle closest to the body for the epididymis. The epididymis is a comma-shaped, cord-like tube that stores and transports sperm. Don't mistake the "lump" of the epididymis for an abnormal lump. Cancerous lumps are more commonly found at the front of the testicle. If you're not sure if you have felt the epididymis or a lump, make an appointment at Health Services. You can request a medical provider by name or gender. It is normal for testicles to be different sizes, and for one to hang lower and a bit behind the other. The scrotum regulates the heat of the testicles by relaxing and lowering the testicles away from the body when they are warm, and contracting and pulling the testicles up close to the body when they are cold. This temperature regulation is necessary for sperm production. When performing TSE you are looking for: Small, hard, non-tender lump or nodule in the testicle Enlarged testicle and/or a feeling of extra heaviness in the testicle Change in the way the testicle feels or in its consistency Dull ache in the lower abdomen or groin. What does it mean if I find a lump? Lumps are not always cancer. However, if you notice a lump, enlargement, tenderness or other unexplained changes in your testicles, talk to your medical provider right away. Brown students can make an appointment at Health Services (401.863-3953) and you can request a provider by gender or by name. The change may be a sign of infection in the testicle (epididymitis) or of testicular torsion (a condition in which the testicle becomes rotated inside the scrotum and becomes "strangulated," which cuts off the blood supply. If left uncorrected, this can result in the loss of a testicle). If you are diagnosed with testicular cancer, the good news is that it is more than 95% curable when detected and treated early. However, testicular cancer may spread rapidly if detection and treatment is delayed. Testicular cancer almost always occurs in only one testicle. Only 2% of those diagnosed with testicular cancer will develop a new tumor in the other testicle. Because the testes do not readily take in anticancer drugs, treatment of testicular cancer typically necessitates surgical removal of the affected testicle. While this thought might make one apprehensive, be assured that one healthy testicle is sufficient for full sexual and reproductive function. Should I make an appointment to get a testicular exam? It's recommended that people under age 40 have a testicular exam by a medical provider every 1 to 2 years. Brown students can make an appointment at Health Services (401.863-3953) and you can request a provider by gender or by name. Related Links To learn more about TSE and testicular cancer, you can visit: The Testicular Cancer Resource Center Medline Plus Health Center for Testicular Cancer www.carpetestes.org National Cancer Institute Testicular Cancer Page This site is a part of the education efforts of the National Cancer Institute. The institute supports research, training, and health education or cancer developments. This particular site provides information about available treatment, prevention, genetics, causes, screening, clinical trials, and literature for testicular cancer. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook