Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Turn up the Volume on Sexual Citizens with Dr. Jennifer Hirsch and Dr. Shamus Khan moderated by Dr. Melanie Bernitz Events Past Event Turn up the Volume on Sexual Citizens with Dr. Jennifer Hirsch and Dr. Shamus Khan moderated by Dr. Melanie Bernitz Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 23, 2020 3:00 PM - 4:30 PM America/New_York Online Event Join Columbia Health’s Dr. Melanie Bernitz in conversation with Jennifer S. Hirsch and Shamus Khan, authors of Sexual Citizens: A Landmark Study of Sex, Power, and Assault on Campus. “Sexual Citizens is based on years of research interviewing and observing college life – with students of different races, genders, sexual orientations, and socio-economic backgrounds. Hirsch and Khan’s landmark study reveals the social ecosystem that makes sexual assault so predictable, explaining how physical spaces, alcohol, peer groups, and cultural norms influence young people’s experiences and interpretations of both sex and sexual assault. Through the powerful concepts of “sexual projects,” “sexual citizenship,” and “sexual geographies,” the authors offer a new and widely-accessible language for understanding the forces that shape young people’s sexual relationships.” Moderator: Dr. Melanie Bernitz, Associate Vice President and Medical Director of Columbia Health Speakers: Jennifer S. Hirsch, Professor of Socio-Medical Sciences at the Mailman School of Public Health, Co-Director of SHIFT, Columbia University Shamus Khan, Professor and Chair of Sociology, and Co-Head of the Ethnographic Team of SHIFT, Columbia University Find Sexual Citizens A Landmark Study of Sex, Power, and Assault On Campus at a library near you: https://librarytechnology.org/libraries/ Time: Apr 23, 2020 03:00 PM in Eastern Time (US and Canada) Please register in advance: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_e5sB0uyRRwm02qTJwnGuNQ Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend and event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388. Contact Information Columbia Health Sexual Violence Response 212-854-HELP (4357) [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close