<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Charlotte Keeley MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” At some intersections, the corner sidewalk square is textured, serving as a tactile warning to the visually impaired that the road is just beyond. Growing up, my twin sister and I were puzzled by these pebbled squares in our neighborhood. Our grandfather explained that they were dancing squares, and that you had to stop and show off your latest and greatest moves before crossing the street. At age four, this made perfect sense; we would giggle with happiness when we came across one and then twist and jump around to inaudible music. For many years, coming across a square was an opportunity to stop and boogie. At some point though, high school, college, and work started snapping at my heels, pushing me to hurry forward. When I got to a dancing square, the music didn’t play anymore. In a rush, I jumped out into traffic, or if forced to stop, I groaned instead of giggled. I saw the squares as roadblocks, not opportunities. I have started to see these squares as dancing squares again, for the first time in a long time. My grandfather is no longer alive, but his imagination is. My plan is to stop and dance more. — Charlotte Keeley The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College