COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Early Childhood Unified / Elementary Education - Teacher Apprentice Program, Major MajorEarly Childhood Unified / Elementary Education - Teacher Apprentice Program All Programs College of Applied Studies Intervention Services and Leadership in Education Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts in Education (BAED)—early childhood unified / elementary education - teacher apprentice program—gives para educators a way to complete their bachelor’s degree and upgrade their careers by becoming certified teachers. Graduates are eligible to apply for two licenses: elementary teaching and early child unified. Learn how the early childhood unified / elementary education - teacher apprentice program is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the program, you must: Be admitted into Wichita State Meet the adult learner or transfer requirements Complete a placement assessment Submit references Provide a certificate of health Pass a criminal background check Admission requirements Inside the Program Make a difference to the children of Kansas Do you want to be a part of helping stop the teacher shortage in Kansas? WSU's Teacher Apprentice Program lets para educators earn their bachelor's in early education while already working in the classroom. The fully online program is already producing more teachers who can help guide the youth of Kansas. Learn more Curriculum This program offers two curriculum options. Option 1: For candidates who hold an Associate of Arts in elementary education or an Associate of Arts with general emphasis. Option 2: For candidates who do not hold an Associate of Arts. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor’s degree from Wichita State’s College of Applied Studies will give you the knowledge, skills and confidence to make a positive impact in the classroom—and prepares you to pursue an advanced education degree. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Education - Early Childhood Unified Education - Elementary Psychology Special Music Education 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©