Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Life at Nebraska Arts & Culture Arts & Culture Nebraska Life at Nebraska Arts & Culture Arts & Culture The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a force in Lincoln’s creative community. The university is located in the hub of Lincoln’s arts and culture community — from gallery shows featuring local artists to concerts from the biggest names in music, there’s something for everyone! Lincoln is a music city for all tastes, including an active independent music scene, legendary blues from the Zoo Bar and the delight of summer jazz at Jazz in June. Art Lincoln’s art scene starts with the Sheldon. The Sheldon Museum of Art houses one of the world’s finest collections of American art, with challenging works from thousands of artists, including Andy Warhol, Berenice Abbott, Diane Arbus, Frank Stella, and Aaron Douglas (BFA 1922). Down the street, the Lied Center for Performing Arts anchors the university’s performance venues with a full slate of major traveling music and stage events. The Howell and Johnny Carson (BA 1949) theaters host productions by repertory and student companies. Near East Campus stands the Robert A.M. Stern-designed International Quilt Museum, housing the world's largest publicly-held collection of quilts. Galleries and studios can be found across the city and the first Friday of every month is marked with a Lincoln tradition — the First Friday Artwalk. This Lincoln staple provides an ever-changing tour of the capital city’s galleries and the artworks within them. No mention of the culture of Lincoln would be complete without reference to the architectural jewel of the Midwest — our Capitol. The Nebraska State Capitol was constructed during the Great Depression, and is still revered today for its architectural and artistic properties. Tours are available each day to further inspect this Art Deco beauty. Music Touring bands and those from Lincoln and Omaha’s buzzing independent music scenes hit stages at the Bourbon, Duffy’s and The Bay regularly, with many shows presented for all ages. Downtown Lincoln is host to concerts from touring bands and local Lincoln and Omaha independent acts, there’s always a place to see a group setting up to perform. Many of the major touring acts frequent Pinnacle Bank Arena, and in the summer, Pinewood Bowl at Pioneers Park. Students can see Grammy-winning stars at PBA, or appreciate the local Lincoln music scene through annual festivals like Lincoln Calling. For even more fun, you can stop by a University Program Council sponsored show for discounted (or even free!) tickets. Film Located right on campus, the Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center provides easy access to critically acclaimed independent films from across the world. Students are able to see these award-winning films at a discounted price when they present their NCard. For mainstream films, students can head just down the street to the Lincoln Grand Cinema, which features dream lounging seats for a completely comfy movie-going experience. Theatre Theatre fans can find shows running nearly every weekend at one of Lincoln’s downtown venues. The Lied Center for Performing Arts is located right on City Campus, and features works by national touring companies and local repertory theaters. Or, you can support your fellow Huskers by purchasing a ticket to a show at The Temple Theatre. The Temple Theatre hosts original student performances, improv shows, cabarets and main stage productions of some of theatre’s most acclaimed works. We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.