Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Advancement Menu About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us Baylor>University Advancement>How to Give>Gifts of Real Estate Gifts of Real Estate We support all types of gifts Outright Gifts Benefits Receive a charitable income tax deduction for the full fair market value of the property. Avoid capital gains tax on any appreciation. Transfer to Baylor the burden and expense of managing and selling your property. Create a lasting legacy at Baylor with your gift. Did you know? Property subject to a mortgage may not be suitable as a gift to Baylor due to tax and other considerations. Before accepting a gift of real estate, Baylor must conduct due diligence on the property, including assessment of marketability and environmental concerns. How to Baylor’s Office of Gift Planning with the support of Baylor’s Office of Real Estate Services has all the resources and expertise needed to facilitate most real estate gifts. Please contact us for assistance. Retained Life Estate Benefits Transfer title to your personal residence now, while retaining the right to live in or use it for the rest of your life or another’s life. Upon the death(s) of the life tenant(s), title to the property vests in Baylor and any subsequent sale proceeds will be applied to the purpose you designate. You receive an immediate income tax deduction based on the fair market value less the present value of the retained life estate. Did you know? If you move out of the donated property, you can still rent it and collect the rental income. While they are living, life tenants are responsible for property taxes, insurance, maintenance and upkeep, although they do not pay any rent to Baylor. Properties subject to a mortgage may not be appropriate for this type of gift. Before accepting a gift of real estate, Baylor must conduct due diligence on the property, including assessment of marketability and environmental concerns. How to Please contact us for assistance. Download Giving Guide (pdf) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Office of University Advancement One Bear Place #97026 Waco, Texas 76798-7026 Clifton Robinson Tower - Suite 800 (254) 710-2561 University_Advancement@baylor.edu Make a Gift Please select...Where It's Needed Most Make a Gift Leadership DirectoryGiving at BaylorHow to GiveCelebrating Giving General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About About University Advancement Leadership Directory Administrative Advancement Services Alumni Engagement Campaign and Donor Stewardship Corporate and Foundation Relations Operations and Financial Services Major Gifts Donor Bill of Rights Give Light Giving to Baylor Student Scholarships Academic Units Student Life Class Giving Athletics Parent Giving The Torch (Crowdfunding) How to Give Credit Card or Check Memorial and Tribute Gifts Corporate and Foundation Relations Gifts of Securities Gifts of Real Estate Gift Planning/Estate Gifts Matching Gifts Celebrating Giving 1845 Society 1845 Society Legacy Old Main Society Baylor Alumni Give Online Contact Us