Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Education About Academic Programs Students Faculty/Staff News River City Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Share your passion for diversity, equity and social justice. Teach in Memphis with the River City Partnership. There's great things happening in the COE! See the amazing things COE faculty, students and staff have accomplished. Earn your degree in Education right where you are. Enroll in one of our award-winning online graduate programs. Our award-winning Teacher Preparation Program prepares equity-minded teachers. Visit the Office of Teacher Education and Clinical Practice to learn about teaching licensure. PreviousNext Take Action Apply to our Undergraduate Programs Apply to our Graduate Programs The River City Partnership: Equity in Action Contact Us Follow Us Online Instagramtwitter Home College of Education (COE) Driven by Equity The College of Education at the University of Memphis is Driven by Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. We strive for excellence and transform innovation into action as we lead, teach, research and serve. We train equity-minded teachers, educational leaders, counselors and researchers who will impact Memphis, the Mid-South and the world. Connect with the College of Education > Notice: Ball Hall is closed the Spring 2022 semester for HVAC renovations. We're still here for you! Email education@memphis.edu to connect with us. COE News Online Education Program Ranked by US News and World Report We are so proud of our Online Education's program ranking by US News and World Report! The COE Online Education program is ranked #102 in Best Online Master's in Education Programs (up from #146 last year) and #28 in Best Online Master's in Education Programs for Veterans. Both rankings are #1 in the state of Tennessee. Congratulations to our dedicated faculty, staff and students who made this ranking possible. Learn more about the ranking here >. Lauren, Hayes, CEPR Student, Wins Award for Paper Abstract Lauren Hayes, doctoral student in the Counseling Psychology program in CEPR, received the Academy for Eating Disorders (AED) Award for a student/trainee/early career professional top-scoring paper abstract at the International Conference on Eating Disorders (ICED) 2022. Her conference proposal is based on her dissertation research examining disordered eating in women who have been sex-trafficked. Lauren will be acknowledged at the conference in June. Previously, Lauren won a award from the AED supporting her research. She will graduate in August 2022 and begin a postdoctoral pediatric fellowship position at University of Louisville/Norton Children's Hospital with specialization in hematology/oncology/BMT. Congratulations, Lauren! Brea Hinds, Undergrad COE Student, Named Thrive TN Fellow Congratulations to Brea Hinds on being named a Thrive TN Fellow. Brea is a Junior Teaching All Learners Major and a Teacher Scholar in the River City Partnership program. The Thrive TN Fellowship, a 12-month program that runs from January- December 2022, is sponsored by the Education Trust in Tennessee. Brea says of the fellowship, "Becoming a Thrive Fellow is a fantastic opportunity to grow my skills as an educator and social justice advocate for my future students. I am thankful to be a part of a network that aligns with the River City Partnership and my personal goals to become an educator who is action-oriented." Thrive TN Fellows will connect their experiences preparing for and entering college to current systems and practices, understand K-12 and higher education systems, their design, their intended and actual impact, and the levers and opportunities for reform, resulting in more culturally responsive and effective practices at the institutional, and district and school levels. Thrive TN Fellows will build community with peers across the state, engage on topics related to leadership development and develop research skills to complete a Youth Participatory Action Research Project (YPAR) by the completion of the program. We are so proud to be represented by Brea in this impactful program! Dr. Genia Bettencourt, LEAD, Chosen for Prestigious Early Career Mentorship Academy Dr. Genia Bettencourt, Assistant Professor in Higher and Adult Education in the Department of Leadership, was named to the 2022-23 NASPA Emerging Faculty Leader Academy Cohort. She will participate in professional development and educational sessions about being a leader as a faculty member in student affairs. Dr. Bettencourt is only one of seven participants invited to join this mentoring opportunity especially designed for early career to incorporate knowledge, advice and experiences from seasoned faculty/staff leaders and other experts on how faculty can provide leadership within the field. National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA) is the professional home for the field of student affairs. Its mission states, “As the leading voice of student affairs, NASPA drives innovation and evidence-based, student-centered practice throughout higher education, nationally and globally” (naspa.org/about >). Dr. Bettencourt has also been selected to serve as the 2022-2024 Website and Faculty Council Social Media Coordinator on the NASPA Faculty Council. Dr. Bettencourt says of this honor, “I’m excited to be a part of such an amazing cohort of peers as part of the NASPA Emerging Faculty Leaders Academy (EFLA) and benefit from the opportunity to be in community about faculty life. Higher education and student affairs as a field is facing so many key issues at this moment – adapting to online and hybrid environments, addressing issues of staff burnout and attrition, navigating a constantly changing pandemic, working to promote equity and social justice – that will define our work for decades to come. I look forward to having spaces to discuss these issues and to help me think about how I can best prepare my students as educators and leaders.” Learn more about the NASPA Emerging Faculty Leader Academy Cohort and Dr. Bettencourt’s peers here >. Share Your Story The COE wants to celebrate our alumni, students, faculty and staff who are driven by excellence and demonstrate our values: diversity, inclusion, respect, innovation and service. We want to hear about your awards, accomplishments, promotions, nominations, research, publications and other professional and academic achievements. Read our stories>. Share your story > Give to the COE Help support our students, programs and the future of education. SUPPORT THE COE > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/26/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.