Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » Get Help » Documentation Center Set Navigation title in component Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Documentation Center The IT@UC Documentation Center is a convenient hub for locating and accessing a variety of documentation for policies, standards and guidelines. IT@UC Office of Information Security Policies The IT@UC Office of Information Security maintains an up-to-date page which provides access to approved policies, draft policies and more. Procedures The IT@UC Office of Information Security maintains a page from which documentation for several step-by-step guides for completing tasks, or procedures, is available. Standards Documentation of several standards, or descriptions of specific usage of technology, is available from the IT@UC Office of Information Security. Guidelines Many helpful recommendations and details of best practices are made available in the form of Guidelines offered by the IT@UC Office of Information Security. IT@UC and Division of Administration & Finance, Planning + Design + Construction Communication Standards A set of comprehensive IT standards outlining UC’s IT products and installation methods. This document MUST be adhered to in bid documents on all UC Construction and Renovation projects. View and download a PDF of the Communication Standards. (Document revision date: April 2022) Project Procedures Provides P+D+C project managers with procedures on obtaining IT services for all construction and/or renovation projects including deadline dates, how to submit requests, and who to contact. View and download a PDF of the Project Procedures. (Document revision date: November 1, 2017) IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB) Information Articles The IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB) is a resource containing many forms of documentation for UC, including custom UC how-to guides, answers to frequently asked questions and solutions to common issues. View the IT@UC Knowledge Base University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top