Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search Use of University Facilities Use of University Facilities UUF Home Space & Event Scheduling expand_more General Information add Getting Started with 25Live Important Dates Space Types Support & FAQs add 25Live Event Requirements 25Live Support for Schedulers 25Live Support for Support Departments 25Live Support for Users Event Types Event Policies & Forms expand_more Event Policies Event Management Safety Agreement Hosting a Conference Event Incident Report Preferred Caterers List Vaccination Verification at Events Training Posting and Solicitation Guidelines expand_more Banner Approval Request Posting on Campus Campus Study Spaces expand_more Individual Study Spaces UUF Committee MyUW Map Tools Breadcrumb Home Use of University Facilities Use of University Facilities Use of University Facilities COVID-19 IMPACTS TO CAMPUS EVENTS Covid-19 Prevention Guidelines for In-Person Events This document provides the latest guidance for preventing the spread of COVID-19 and for compliance with Washington state and local public health requirements at in-person events. Please review and complete a Covid-19 Prevention Plan for In-Person Events to attach to your 25Live event reservation. Here is the current University’s Face Covering Policy. Join us for a UUF drop-in Session Wednesday, April 27, 2022 11:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Presentation from the drop-in session: UUF Drop-In Session April 2022.pdf Under Washington state law, the use of any University of Washington facility or space is governed by the Use of University Facilities (UUF). At UW Tacoma, this includes room reservations, event (including food and alcohol) policies, solicitation guidelines and campus postings. All UUF-related items are managed by the campus UUF Committee. This website is designed to help campus space users navigate the policies and procedures for using a room on campus. You can find information on event policies, bulletin boards and postings, the Event Management Safety Agreement form and more. Take a click through and explore everything today! Questions about the Use of University Facilities can be directed to the UUF Committee. Quick Links Space and event Scheduling Event Policies Postings & Bulletin boards Contact Use of University Facilities email eventuwt@uw.edu phone_iphone 253-692-4306 ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy