Skip to main content Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects Search this site Main menu About Services Standards & Policies Sustainability Capital Process Maps News News CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) INFORMATION Visit the University website for more news, announcements, and resources related to the Penn campus response to COVID-19. https://coronavirus.upenn.edu/ Please visit School and Center sites for specific building and re-occupancy guidance. Facilities Resumption FAQ's Below are answers to frequently... Read More » Get Outside with the Penn Plant Explorer Are you interested in learning more about the trees and plants on Penn's campus? Or, as the weather warms, in spending more time with friends outdoors? The Penn Plant Explorer Interactive website is an excellent resource for anyone looking to get outside, discover campus gardens, or find a quiet... Read More » New Restaurant Openings in University City El Taco Mexican restaurant El Taco opened its new location at 3716 Spruce Street in early March. Locally owned and operated, El Taco has served delicious made-from-scratch fare, including crispy tacos, quesadillas, and burrito bowls, at its Powelton Village location since 2018. Founded by Penn... Read More » FRES Staff Honored with 2022 Models of Excellence Awards In March, numerous FRES team members were honored with 2022 Models of Excellence Awards, one of the University's highest honors for staff. The Quaker Kitchen Project team, which included Michael Doherty, Dave Dunn, Ke Feng, Mark Kocent, Jackie Schlindwein, and Mariette Buchman, were honored with a... Read More » Cascode Art Installation Commissioned Located at the northeast corner of 34th and Chestnut Streets, the forthcoming Amy Gutmann Hal l will service as the hub for Penn Engineering's IDEAS Initiative, a wide-ranging investment in data science: the field of research that analyzes and combines massive quantities of digital information to... Read More » Sansom Place East Redevelopment Underway The University of Pennsylvania and Greystar Real Estate Partners announced their partnership in the mixed-use redevelopment of existing student housing at 3600 Chestnut Street. The project will provide 588 beds in 473 units of furnished, attainably priced, graduate-focused housing and a rich... Read More » Climate & Sustainability Action Plan FY21 Annual Report In November, the Penn Sustainability Office released the Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 FY21 Annual Report , based on data and metrics from fiscal year 2021 gathered from across many academic and administrative units at the University. The Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 FY21... Read More » New College House Opens at 40th Street The 250,000 sq. ft. New College House, located at 40th street and Locust Walk, was completed in summer 2021, and welcomed its first student residents for the fall semester. The $160M, 448-bed college house is the 13th on Penn's campus, and features common areas like a life skills kitchen, study,... Read More » Celebrate Earth Week, April 18-22 Every year on April 22, Earth Day marks the anniversary of the birth of the modern environmental movement in 1970. Penn Sustainability is planning a week of events and educational opportunities to celebrate our dedication to social, environmental, and economic sustainability at the University of... Read More » Celebrating five years of Pennovation November 2021 marked the five year anniversary of the opening of the Pennovation Center, Penn's groundbreaking innovation hub for researchers and entrepreneurs. This story from Penn Today reflects on the excitement of the Center's opening, major milestones of the last five years, the evolution of... Read More » Pages 1 2 3 next › last » About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Traffic Advisories Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Info for: Penn Community Facilities & Real Estate Services 3101 Walnut St Philadelphia, Pa 19104 Emergency/Vehicular Address: 3160 Chestnut Street (proceed to the glass Pavilion at end of the parking lot) © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Report accessibility issues and get help » Webmaster Contact » Service Request Penn Homepage Penn Sustainability Penn Connects About Mission Organizational Chart Departments Campus History Campus Plan News Divisional Overview Vendor Information Directions to FRES Services Maintenance and Renovation Campus and Building Plans Landscape Planned Events Real Estate Signage Moving Services Standards & Policies Standards Policies Safety Procedures Sustainability Energy Management Built Environment Waste Management and Recycling Collaborative Efforts Capital Process Initiate a Project Capital Planning Facilities Renewal Maps and Locations Building Locations Penn Connects Public Art Bike Racks Discover Penn Public Parking Printing the Campus Map PennAccess Location List Contacts Penn Community Penn Homepage