Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Undergraduate Admissions Menu Why Baylor Academics Undergraduate Catalog Honors College Study Abroad Paul L. Foster Success Center Elite Opportunities Majors & Minors Accounting Advertising American Studies Anthropology Apparel Design & Product Development Apparel Merchandising Applied Mathematics Performance Arabic Arabic and Middle East Studies Archaeology Art History Asian Studies Astronomy Astrophysics Aviation Administration Aviation Sciences Biochemistry Bioinformatics Biology Business Administration Business Fellows Chemistry Child and Family Studies Chinese Choral Music Church Music Civic Interfaith Studies Classics Communication Sciences and Disorders Communication Specialist Communication Computer Science Computer Science Fellows Corporate Communication Creative Writing Criminal Justice Dance Data Science Earth Science Economics Education Certification - Deaf Education Education Certification - English as a Second Language Education Certification - Gifted & Talented Education Certification - Music Education Education Certification - Physical Education Education Concentration for Biology Majors Education Concentration for Health Science Studies Majors Education Concentration for History Majors Education Concentration for Math Majors Education - Elementary Education Education - Middle Grade English, Language Arts, and Reading Education - Middle Grade Mathematics Education - Middle Grade Science Education - Middle Grade Social Studies Education - Secondary Business Education - Secondary English, Language Arts, and Reading Education - Secondary Life Science Education - Secondary Mathematics Education - Secondary Physical Sciences Education - Spanish All Level Education - Special Education Education - Secondary Social Studies Educational Psychology Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering English Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation Environmental Health Science Environmental Science Environmental Studies Exercise Physiology Film and Digital Media Finance Forensic Science French Family & Consumer Sciences Geology Geophysics German Gerontology Great Texts of the Western Tradition Greek Greek and Roman Studies Health, Kinesiology, and Leisure Studies Health Science Studies History Human Resource Management Informal Education Instrumental Music Interior Design International Business International Studies Italian Japanese Journalism Linguistics Latin Latin American Studies Leadership in Medicine Leadership Studies Legal Reasoning and Analysis Management Management Information Systems Marketing Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Media Management Medical Humanities Military Studies Museum Studies Music Composition Music History and Literature Theory Neuroscience News Editorial Nursing Nutrition Sciences Outdoor Education & Leadership Pedagogy Philosophy Photojournalism Physics Political Science Poverty Studies and Social Justice Pre-Dentistry Pre-Law Pre-Medicine Pre-Occupational Therapy Pre-Optometry Pre-Pharmacy Pre-Physical Therapy Pre-Physician Assistant Pre-Podiatry Pre-Veterinary Medicine Professional Selling Professional Writing and Rhetoric Psychology Public Health Public Relations Recreation and Leisure Services Recreation Ministry Religion Rhetoric and Public Discourse Risk Management and Insurance Russian Science Research Fellows American Sign Language Slavic and East European Studies Social Work Sociology Spanish Statistics Studio Art Supply Chain Management Theatre Arts Theatre Design and Technology Theatre Performance University Scholars Women's and Gender Studies World Affairs Hankamer Scholars Humanities Research Fellows MyMajors Assessment Big 12 Athletics Baylor Athletics Club Sports Intramural Sports Campus Life Traditions Spiritual Life Student Activities What Students Say Campus Housing & Dining Fraternity & Sorority Life Baylor 101 Diversity & Inclusion for Prospective Students Admission Freshman Application Process Test Optional Process Home School & Private School Requirements Major-Specific Admission Requirements Transferring Credits AP & CLEP Exams Global Scholars Program First In Line Success Academy Dependents of Veterans Transfer Application Process Transferring Credits Veterans Educational Benefits International Application Process International Timeline Other Applicant Types Meet Your Counselor High School Juniors Test Prep Tips Pre-College Programs for Juniors Policies Costs & Aid How To Fund Your Baylor Education Scholarships & Aid Academic Scholarships Athletic Scholarships Baptist Scholarships Carr P. Collins Scholars Program Departmental Scholarships First in Line Success Academy Loans Need-Based Scholarships Outside Scholarships Trailblazer Scholarship Work-Study Scholarship Programs Value of a Baylor Education Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Timeline Trending Questions for Financial Aid Visit & Connect Visit Resources Planning Tips Campus Map About Waco Getting Here Where to Eat & Sleep Preferred Hotel Program Virtual Tour Walking Audio Tour Prospective Parents & Counselors Prospective Parents Baylor Parents Network High School Counselors Counselor Advisory Board Counselor Newsletter Contact Join the Mailing List Meet Your Counselor Connect on Social Media Apply Now/goBAYLOR Baylor> Undergraduate Admissions>Costs & Aid>Scholarship Programs>2022 Freshman Scholarship Programs 2022 Freshman Scholarship Programs Each year, Baylor University awards more than $7.5 million of generous scholarships to high-achieving attendees at the following programs: Getterman Scholars Program Invitation to Excellence Baylor2Baylor Medical Program Baylor2Baylor Law Program Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program Distinguished Scholars Day For the 2021-2022 year, we will offer a hybrid of virtual and in-person offerings to accommodate all prospective students interested in a scholarship program. Fall events will be primarily virtual, with a few exceptions. Spring events will primarily be in-person, with a few exceptions. Baylor's scholarship programs offer an in-depth, high-quality experience and the same amount of scholarship offerings as years past, but with added safety and flexibility for students and families. Prospective freshmen students will have the opportunity to be awarded multiple scholarships: Each program has specific scholarship levels that participants will be considered for at the conclusion of the program. Each student who fully completes one or more scholarship programs will be awarded a one-time $1,000 scholarship, regardless of the number of programs completed. All participants will be considered for additional Baylor scholarships geared toward high-achieving students. The deadline to apply for the 2021-2022 Scholarship Programs has passed. Application Process How should I apply? First, submit an application to Baylor. After you've submitted your application to Baylor, you'll gain access to your personal goBAYLOR portal. If you apply with Common App or ApplyTexas, be aware that you will get a separate email 24-48 hours after you submit your application to create your goBaylor account. Please keep this in mind as you apply for our Scholarship Programs. The 2022 Scholarship Program Application will be in your goBAYLOR portal under the "Connect & Visit" tab. Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. Note: If you opt into providing your test scores on your Baylor admissions application, your test scores will be considered as part of your Scholarship Programs Application. If you opt out of providing your test scores on your Baylor admission application, your test scores will not be considered as part of your Scholarship Programs Application. How do I know what programs I might qualify for? Students should review specific program descriptions to learn more about the academic profile of students who are typically accepted into each program. Then apply for the programs that sound like a good match with your academic record. Whether you are applying to one or multiple programs, you will submit only one application. Note: Baylor Scholarship Programs are only available for qualified prospective freshmen students. If you are considering Baylor as a transfer, you can explore other scholarship opportunities available to you on our Transfer Academic Scholarships webpage. What if I’m interested in more than one program? That’s perfectly fine! Students can apply to any and all of the programs that they think best suit them. The application will list all of the scholarship programs and ask students to check a box next to the ones they are interested in. Remember: It’s okay to check more than one program — just be prepared to submit all the specific requirements for each program as you’re filling out the application and pay close attention to the academic profile and qualifications of each program. What is the timeline for the scholarship programs? There will be two rounds of scholarship programs. Some programs will be offered in both rounds, while others are only available one time during the academic year. See the Requirements & Important Dates section below. It is important to note that Round 1 will mainly be virtual options only, while Round 2 will offer in-person programs. Please make sure to apply for the program that aligns with the arrangement you want. If I apply, and I am accepted into one or more programs, what are the requirements to participate? If students are accepted into a program, they must register for that program as a formal indication that they intend to fully participate. There will be a checklist of program requirements to complete in the student’s goBAYLOR account. Generally speaking, students who participate in a scholarship program must do the following: Engage in an academic experience led by Baylor faculty. Submit an essay after the Faculty session. (Essay prompt will be provided by the academic unit.) *Depending on the program, there could be additional requirements. These will be visible in goBAYLOR as an additional checklist item to complete. When will I be notified if I am a scholarship recipient? For a timeline of when students will be informed of selections, see the Requirements & Important Dates section below. To learn more about the 2021-2022 Freshman Scholarship Programs, click here. The deadline to apply for the 2021-2022 Scholarship Programs has passed. Requirements & Important Dates Scholarship Program Round 1 Round 2 Academic Requirements Virtual or In-Person Getterman Scholars* ✔ ACT 34, SAT 1500 or CLT 103+ In-Person Invitation to Excellence ✔ ✔ ACT 32 or SAT 1420 Round 1 – Virtual Round 2 – In-Person Distinguished Scholars** ✔ ✔ ACT 27-31 or SAT 1260-1410 Round 1 – Virtual Round 2 – In-Person Baylor2Baylor Medical ✔ ✔ ACT 32 or SAT 1430 and possess 3.7 GPA and/or be top 5% Round 1 – Virtual Round 2 – In-Person Baylor2Baylor Law ✔ ACT 30 or SAT 1360 In-Person Baylor2Baylor Seminary ✔ ACT 27 or SAT 1280 In-Person *Those selected to participate in Getterman Scholars will be required to attend the Honors session for Invitation to Excellence in Round 2. **Distinguished Scholars Days for certain academic units are only available in Round 1 or 2. Check the table under Distinguished Scholars Day below to see what academic units are available during what round. Action Items Round 1 Round 2 Scholarship application opening September 1 September 1 Completed Baylor application deadline November 1 November 1 Scholarship application deadline (11:59 p.m. CST) October 1* November 8 Participation notification date October 8 November 22 Deadline to schedule required interactions and confirm participation October 13 November 30 Essay due after faculty session Click here to see essay due dates for Round 2 I2E – November 15 at 9 a.m. CST; B2B/DSD – Specific to department/program I2E – January 31at 9 a.m. CST: B2B/DSD – Specific to department/program Scholarship notification date January 15 April 9 *After you've submitted your application to Baylor, you'll gain access to your personal goBAYLOR portal as well as to the 2022 Scholarship Program application. Though a completed admission file is not due until November 1, we encourage you to submit your materials early to enhance your Scholarship Program application. Program Descriptions Getterman Scholars Program The Getterman Scholars Program is a Round 2 (in-person) program on January 21, 2022. Overview In collaboration with the Honors College, the Getterman Scholars Program is open to high-achieving students across academic disciplines, especially students interested in an integrated undergraduate liberal arts education that encourages connections between the various disciplines of study, the local and the global, the past and present, and the love of learning and service of God and neighbor. Getterman Scholar applicants are among the brightest in their high school classes, demonstrating success in competitive and rigorous high school course selections. Scholarship Value Selected recipients receive a scholarship valued at approximately $60,000 renewable per year, covering tuition, fees, room and board, along with support for study abroad, research and mission/service experiences. All participants who complete the scholarship program receive a one-time $1,000 scholarship. Requirements for Consideration Selected applicants typically have a 1500 or higher on the SAT and a 34 or higher on the ACT. Students may qualify without submitting scores. Students who are selected to participate will be required to attend the Honors faculty session as part of Invitation to Excellence. If interested students will need to complete the following steps: Submit a completed Baylor application by November 1. Submit a completed application to the Baylor Honors College by November 8. Submit the 2021 Scholarship Program application by 11:59 p.m. CST on November 8, indicating an interest in the Getterman Scholars Program. Note: the application process will involve uploading a three-minute video-recorded essay that responds to one of the following prompts: C.S. Lewis invites Christians to ask “how it is right…for creatures who are every moment advancing either to heaven or to hell, to spend any fraction of the little time allowed them in this world on such comparative trivialities as literature or art, mathematics or biology.” Why is this a reasonable, even urgent, question to ask? What Christian reasons are there for a university education? How would Baylor’s Honors College prepare you to address Lewis’s question favorably and confidently, and with what results for your life beyond college? Dorothy Sayers said, “Theology is the mistress-science, without which the whole educational structure will necessarily lack its final synthesis.” What does she mean? Why is her view important? Giving concrete examples, how might theology complete and fulfill learning in other disciplines? Why does Sayers’ vision of education matter for the kind of study and preparation that you hope to pursue in Baylor’s Honors College? Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. *Getterman Scholars Program is only offered in Round 2. To be fully considered for the program, students must also apply and attend the Honors Invitation to Excellence session in Round2. Invitation to Excellence Invitation to Excellence Round 1 (virtual) will be held on November 6, 2021. Invitation to Excellence Round 2 (in-person) will be held on January 22, 2022. Overview Invitation to Excellence is a competitive program that showcases many of the exciting academic opportunities Baylor offers. Through this elite program, students have robust experiences and conversations with faculty representing all nine schools and colleges. Scholarship Value At the conclusion of the program, students will be considered for a Faculty Scholarship. Faculty Scholarship recipients will receive a full-tuition scholarship. Recipients are chosen based on the essay that is written following their faculty session. The essay prompt will be provided by the academic unit. All participants who complete the scholarship program receive a one-time $1,000 scholarship. Requirements for Consideration This program is best suited for high-achieving students who are hoping to enroll in the fall term and typically have scored 1420 or above on the SAT or a 32 or above on the ACT. Students may qualify without submitting scores. Applicants will attend a faculty session from one the following schools and colleges: The School of Engineering & Computer Science The College of Arts & Sciences The Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences - round 2 only The Diana R. Garland School of Social Work The Honors College School of Business School of Music* Complete Baylor application by the corresponding round deadline: November 1. Complete the 2021 Scholarship Program application by 11:59 p.m. CST on October 1 or November 8, depending on the round you have chosen. Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. Note: the I2E application process will involve choosing and answering a short essay question in 500 words or less. You may choose one of the following: "To whom much is given, much is required." - Luke 12:48. What does this verse mean to you as a soon-to-be college student? "Only those who risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go." - T.S. Elliot. Tell us about a risk you've taken and the outcome. Celebrate your [...] side. Choose a word that describes you and explain the word and how you have celebrated this aspect of yourself. *If selected for the program, School of Music applicants will be required to submit a video audition following their faculty interaction. If you were selected to participate in Round 2 of Scholarship Programs, click HERE to view the due dates for faculty session essays. Baylor2Baylor Medical Program Baylor2Baylor Medical Program Round 1 (virtual) will be held on November 11, 2021. Baylor2Baylor Medical Program Round 2 (in-person) will be held on January 21, 2022. Overview The Baylor2 Medical Track Program is a combined 8-year baccalaureate/MD program for selected high-achieving undergraduate students. Baylor University and Baylor College of Medicine grant six outstanding high school students provisional acceptance to Baylor College of Medicine upon matriculation to Baylor University. Please keep in mind that the round 1 Baylor2Baylor Medical Program will be virtual and the round 2 program will be in-person. If you were selected to participate in Round 1 of Scholarship Programs, click HERE to view the due dates for faculty session essays. Scholarship Value Two of the six students selected will receive a scholarship valued at $40,000 ($10,000 distributed during their 4-year undergraduate career). The other four will receive a scholarship valued at $12,000 ($3,000 distributed during their 4-year undergraduate career). Upon entering Baylor College of Medicine, two of the students will be eligible to earn another scholarship valued again at $40,000 ($10,000 distributed during their 4-year professional school career). All participants receive a one-time $1,000 scholarship. Requirements for Consideration The Baylor2 Medical Track Program is designed for high-achieving high school seniors who rank in the top 5% of their high school graduating class or possess a minimum 3.7 GPA on a 4.0 scale. Typically have a 1430 or above on the SAT or a 32 or above on the ACT (although students may qualify without submitting scores). Are a U.S. citizen or permanent resident. Complete Baylor Application by November 1. Complete Scholarship Program Application by 11:59 p.m. CST on October 1 or November 8 depending on the round you have chosen. Note: The Baylor2Baylor Medical Track Program application process will involve answering the following essay prompt in 500 words or less: Why do you want to pursue your career in medicine at Baylor University and Baylor College of Medicine? Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes cannot be made. Following the initial Baylor2Baylor Medical Track program and the essay submission, a small group of students will be selected to interview with the Baylor College of Medicine. Requirements During Undergraduate Program While at Baylor, students selected for the Baylor2 Medical Track Program must maintain an overall and science GPA of at least 3.5 on a 4.0 scale. They are also required to participate in all traditional pre-med coursework at Baylor. Additionally, these selected students will be required to take the MCAT and score in the range of 501-507 with no section less than 125 in order to matriculate to Baylor College of Medicine upon graduation from Baylor University. Baylor2Baylor Law Program Baylor2Baylor Law Program Round 2 (in-person) will be held on January 21, 2022. Overview Each year, Baylor Law School selects six highly talented freshmen and offers them guaranteed admission into Baylor Law School, provided students meet the academic criteria. Scholarship Value Selected students will receive a $40,000 scholarship ($10,000 per year for four years of undergraduate study at Baylor University) and a full-tuition scholarship toward a Baylor Law School degree. Requirements for Consideration The Baylor2 Law Program is designed for high-achieving students with an interest in attending law school who have typically scored 1360 or above on the SAT or a 30 or above on the ACT. However, students may qualify without submitting scores. Students who are accepted to the Baylor2Baylor Law Program will have a scheduled interview with a Law School professor. Complete Baylor Application by November 1. Complete Scholarship Program Application by 11:59 p.m. CST on November 8. Note: the Baylor2 Law Program application will involve answering the following essay prompts in 500 words or less: Why are you interested in attending Baylor University and Baylor Law School? Discuss why you are interested in a career in the legal profession. Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. *Baylor2Baylor Law Program is only offered in round 2. Requirements During Undergraduate Program Maintain 3.6 cumulative GPA in Baylor undergraduate courses Score at least 162 on the LSAT exam Matriculate to Baylor Law School within 6 years of matriculating at Baylor University Meet general admission and character and fitness requirements for law school admission Contribute to the Pre-Law community while enrolled as an undergraduate student in a manner which will be outlined upon matriculation to Baylor University Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program Round 2 (in-person) will be held on January 21, 2022. Overview Each year, Baylor University hosts a scholarship competition for prospective students who have selected Religion as their major or minor and who intend to pursue Christian vocational ministry. Scholarship Value One participant will be selected to receive a $10,000 per year scholarship ($5,000/semester), renewable for up to four years (up to $40,000 total) provided the recipient maintains at least a 3.0 GPA. The Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program additionally streamlines admission into Truett Seminary provided the student meets the program criteria and awards the student a 100% tuition Truett Seminary scholarship for those that complete the undergrad program with at least a 3.25 GPA. The recipient has the opportunity to receive credit for up to 18 hours toward his or her Truett Seminary degree, thus accelerating the completion time for earning the master’s degree. All participants receive a one-time $1,000 scholarship. Requirements for Consideration The Baylor2 Seminary Program is designed for high-achieving students who plan to major or minor in Religion as undergraduates at Baylor and then attend Truett Seminary. These students typically have a score of 1280 or above on the SAT or a 27 or above on the ACT. However, students may qualify without submitting scores. Complete Baylor application by November 1. Complete Scholarship Program Application by 11:59 p.m. CST on November 8. Note: You will be required to submit the following on your application for the Baylor2 Seminary Program: Description of past Ministry Experience positions held. Upload an in-depth testimony in 750 words or less. Upload an in-depth testimony of your personal call to church-related vocational ministry along with examples of your ministry experience in 750 words or less. Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. Students who are accepted to the Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program will have a scheduled interview with a Religion/Seminary professor and will be required to complete a Church Certification form from their home church to show evidence of the student's divine call to church-related vocational ministry. *Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program is only offered in round 2. Requirements During Undergraduate Program Baylor2Baylor Seminary Program recipients must maintain a cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0 on a 4.0 scale and successfully complete Religion 2480 (Introduction to Ministry). In addition, they must receive a ministry endorsement from their Religion 2480 professor. Distinguished Scholars Day Overview Many academic departments offer invitation-only programs, called Distinguished Scholars Days, which are designed to showcase exciting discipline-specific opportunities available. Scholarship Value Students who complete the requirements associated with the Distinguished Scholars Day program will be considered for a renewable $3,000 Distinguished Scholarship. Requirements for Consideration This program is best suited for high-achieving students who are planning to major within the following academic departments and who typically have scored between 1260-1390 on the SAT or 27-31 on the ACT. Students may qualify without submitting scores. Students must plan to major in one of the following academic units: Major Round Date Virtual or In-Person Arts and Sciences/Undecided* 1 Nov. 15, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 15, 2022 Virtual Business 1 Nov. 6, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 7, 2022 In-Person Communication Sciences and Disorders 1 Oct. 29, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 11, 2022 Virtual Education** 1 Nov. 17, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 4, 2022 In-Person Engineering and Computer Science 1 Nov. 9 and 15, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb 7, 18 and 21, 2022 In-Person Human Sciences and Design 1 (only) Oct. 29, 2021 Virtual Health, Human Performance, and Recreation*** 1 Oct. 22, 2021 Virtual 2 Jan. 28, 2022 Virtual Honors College 1 Oct. 19, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 22, 2022 Virtual Music**** 2 (only) Jan. 31, 2022 In-Person Pre-Health 2 (only) Feb. 4, 2022 In-Person Pre-Nursing (Dallas Campus) 1 Nov. 12, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 11, 2022 In-Person Public Health 1 Nov. 11, 2021 Virtual 2 Feb. 10, 2022 In-Person Theatre 2 (only) Dec. 3, 2021 and Feb. 25, 2022 In-Person Complete Baylor Application by November 1. Complete Scholarship Program Application by 11:59 p.m. CST on October 1 and November 8. Keep in mind, you can make changes to your application up until you click Submit. After submission, changes can not be made. If you were selected to participate in Round 1 of Scholarship Programs, click HERE to view the due dates for faculty session essays. *Majors in these departments/programs: Anthropology; Art & Art History; Aviation Sciences; Classics; English; Environmental Science; Film & Digital Media; Geosciences; History; Humanities Fellows; Journalism, Public Relations & New Media; Mathematics; Modern Languages & Cultures; Philosophy; Physics; Political Science; Religion; Sociology; Statistical Science; and Undecided or Undeclared majors. **Majors include: Elementary Education, Middle Grades English, Language Arts & Reading, Middle Grades Math, Middle Grades Science, Middle Grades Social Studies, Secondary English, Language Arts & Reading, Secondary Life Science, Secondary Math, Secondary Physical Science, Secondary Social Studies and All Level Special Education. ***Majors include: Pre-Health Science Studies, All Level Physical Education, Health Science Studies, Exercise Physiology, Health, Kinesiology and Leisure Studies, Recreation and Leisure Services, 5-Year Joint BS/MAT in Athletic Training and 5-Year Joint BSEd/MS in Sport Pedagogy. Please note that this event is exclusive to majors and programs housed in Robbins College of Health & Human Sciences. This event does not include majors housed within the College of Arts & Sciences. ****Majors include: Bachelor of Music (BM), Bachelor of Music Education (BMED) and Bachelor of Arts in Music. If selected for the program, School of Music applicants will be required to submit a video audition following their faculty interaction. The deadline to apply for the 2021-2022 Scholarship Programs has passed. Costs & Aid How To Fund Your Baylor Education Scholarships & Aid Academic Scholarships Transfer Academic Scholarships 2022-2023 Athletic Scholarships Baptist Scholarships Carr P. Collins Scholars Program Departmental Scholarships First in Line Success Academy Loans Direct Loans Direct PLUS Loans Alternative Loans Need-Based Scholarships Outside Scholarships Trailblazer Scholarship Work-Study Scholarship Programs Value of a Baylor Education Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Timeline Trending Questions for Financial Aid Quick Search Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Undergraduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions One Bear Place #97056 Waco, TX 76798-7056 (254) 710-3435 Clery Act GDPR Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Why Baylor Academics Undergraduate Catalog Honors College Study Abroad Paul L. Foster Success Center Elite Opportunities Majors & Minors Accounting Advertising American Studies Anthropology Apparel Design & Product Development Apparel Merchandising Applied Mathematics Performance Arabic Arabic and Middle East Studies Archaeology Art History Asian Studies Astronomy Astrophysics Aviation Administration Aviation Sciences Biochemistry Bioinformatics Biology Business Administration Business Fellows Chemistry Child and Family Studies Chinese Choral Music Church Music Civic Interfaith Studies Classics Communication Sciences and Disorders Communication Specialist Communication Computer Science Computer Science Fellows Corporate Communication Creative Writing Criminal Justice Dance Data Science Earth Science Economics Education Certification - Deaf Education Education Certification - English as a Second Language Education Certification - Gifted & Talented Education Certification - Music Education Education Certification - Physical Education Education Concentration for Biology Majors Education Concentration for Health Science Studies Majors Education Concentration for History Majors Education Concentration for Math Majors Education - Elementary Education Education - Middle Grade English, Language Arts, and Reading Education - Middle Grade Mathematics Education - Middle Grade Science Education - Middle Grade Social Studies Education - Secondary Business Education - Secondary English, Language Arts, and Reading Education - Secondary Life Science Education - Secondary Mathematics Education - Secondary Physical Sciences Education - Spanish All Level Education - Special Education Education - Secondary Social Studies Educational Psychology Electrical and Computer Engineering Engineering English Entrepreneurship and Corporate Innovation Environmental Health Science Environmental Science Environmental Studies Exercise Physiology Film and Digital Media Finance Forensic Science French Family & Consumer Sciences Geology Geophysics German Gerontology Great Texts of the Western Tradition Greek Greek and Roman Studies Health, Kinesiology, and Leisure Studies Health Science Studies History Human Resource Management Informal Education Instrumental Music Interior Design International Business International Studies Italian Japanese Journalism Linguistics Latin Latin American Studies Leadership in Medicine Leadership Studies Legal Reasoning and Analysis Management Management Information Systems Marketing Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Media Management Medical Humanities Military Studies Museum Studies Music Composition Music History and Literature Theory Neuroscience News Editorial Nursing Nutrition Sciences Outdoor Education & Leadership Pedagogy Philosophy Photojournalism Physics Political Science Poverty Studies and Social Justice Pre-Dentistry Pre-Law Pre-Medicine Pre-Occupational Therapy Pre-Optometry Pre-Pharmacy Pre-Physical Therapy Pre-Physician Assistant Pre-Podiatry Pre-Veterinary Medicine Professional Selling Professional Writing and Rhetoric Psychology Public Health Public Relations Recreation and Leisure Services Recreation Ministry Religion Rhetoric and Public Discourse Risk Management and Insurance Russian Science Research Fellows American Sign Language Slavic and East European Studies Social Work Sociology Spanish Statistics Studio Art Supply Chain Management Theatre Arts Theatre Design and Technology Theatre Performance University Scholars Women's and Gender Studies World Affairs Hankamer Scholars Humanities Research Fellows MyMajors Assessment Big 12 Athletics Baylor Athletics Club Sports Intramural Sports Campus Life Traditions Spiritual Life Student Activities What Students Say Campus Photo Gallery Housing & Dining First-Year Communities Residential College Living-Learning Center Upper-Division Communities Fraternity & Sorority Life Baylor 101 Diversity & Inclusion for Prospective Students Admission Freshman Application Process Spring Application Process Admission Plans Key Documents Chart Policies Texas Occupations Code Chapter 53 Next Steps After Acceptance - Freshmen Test Optional Process Home School & Private School Requirements Major-Specific Admission Requirements Transferring Credits Transfer Credits FAQs AP & CLEP Exams Global Scholars Program First In Line Success Academy Dependents of Veterans Transfer Application Process Next Steps after Acceptance - Transfer Transferring Credits Veterans Educational Benefits International Application Process Majors Requiring Test Scores Secondary Credential Requirements by Country Dictionary Financial Assistance Policies Application Process in Mandarin Baylor and Trinity Western University Partnership International Timeline Other Applicant Types Meet Your Counselor High School Juniors Test Prep Tips Pre-College Programs for Juniors Policies Costs & Aid How To Fund Your Baylor Education Scholarships & Aid Academic Scholarships Transfer Academic Scholarships 2022-2023 Athletic Scholarships Baptist Scholarships Carr P. Collins Scholars Program Departmental Scholarships First in Line Success Academy Loans Direct Loans Direct PLUS Loans Alternative Loans Need-Based Scholarships Outside Scholarships Trailblazer Scholarship Work-Study Scholarship Programs Value of a Baylor Education Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Timeline Trending Questions for Financial Aid Visit & Connect Visit Resources Planning Tips Before Your Visit During Your Visit 5 Tips for Meeting with a College Professor Best Questions to Ask a College Professor Campus Map About Waco Getting Here Where to Eat & Sleep Lodging Dining Preferred Hotel Program Virtual Tour Walking Audio Tour Prospective Parents & Counselors Prospective Parents Baylor Parents Network High School Counselors Counselor Advisory Board Counselor Newsletter Contact Join the Mailing List Meet Your Counselor Connect on Social Media Apply Now/goBAYLOR