Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Global Engagement Global Learning Institute for Faculty The Global Learning Institute provides the tools, resources, and opportunities for faculty to integrate best practices in global learning into their work. Through a series of conversations, workshops, courses, initiatives, and funding opportunities, the institute promotes innovative models in global engagement. These activities are often co-sponsored with other colleges, departments, and offices to tailor application of global learning to specific purposes. ANNOUNCEMENT: Global Learning Institute Faculty Fellow 2021-2022 The Office of Global Engagement's Global Learning Institute has completed the search process for its 2021-22 Faculty Fellow, and is pleased to announce the appointment of Dr. Minory Nammouz. Dr. Nammouz will spend the 2021-2022 academic year supporting the University's International Virtual Exchange -IVE- initiatives. Ref. GLI Faculty Fellow 2021-2022 application Global Learning Institute Sponsored Projects: The Institute helps to facilitate the development of faculty-led interdisciplinary programs and projects across the globe. Global Learning Institute Seed Grants Global Learning Institute Seed Grants have been used over the years to support new directions in Global Learning that align with Clemson's strategic priorities. We are pleased to announce that in 2020-2021, the Global Learning Institute seed funding will prioritize curricular and/or co-curricular initiatives that integrate global learning and diversity education. In fulfillment of its charge to promote comprehensive internationalization, our office is committed to the improvement of Clemson's campus climate and the advancement of the understanding of diversity in all its manifestations, domestically and world-wide. 2020-2021 awarded projects: * Project 1: Clemson University Reaching for Equitable And Cultural Heights (CU-REACH) - Dr. Renée Lyons, Sharetta Bufford, Yuki Kihara * Project 2: Empowered and Student-Centered: Identifying & Reducing Barriers for Underrepresented Students to Study Abroad - Gaby Peschiera, Sallie Turnbull, Jerad Green, Matt Long, Carolyn Crist, Johnsie Stancil Schwehr Global Service-Learning Platforms (India and South Africa) The Schwehr Family Global Service‐Learning Endowment, established by Michael William Schwehr (’81), Linda Pogue Schwehr, Laurel Michelle Schwehr and Victoria Leigh Schwehr (’16), dedicates valuable resources for global student engagement in the developing world. The Global Learning Institute Schwehr Platform Development Grants are intended to assist multi‐disciplinary faculty teams of 3‐5 to build regional platforms to support global service‐learning activities in India and Africa over a 3‐year period, and to pilot a service-learning program for students. SCHWEHR INDIA PLATFORM: Dr. Brett Wright, Dr. Lori Dickes, Dr. Diane Perpich, Dr. Sarah White. The Schwehr India Platform is built around the theme of Sustainable Communities, and supported by four principal areas of interest: * Woman’s empowerment and entrepreneurship * Conservation and sustainability * Water and agriculture management * Maternal and child health The team is in the process of forging sustainable, long-term relationships between Clemson University and communities in India where Clemson faculty and students from across all disciplines will engage in coursework, service, and research in close collaboration with local, community-based partners from government, education, industry, and the non-profit sectors. SCHWEHR SOUTH AFRICA PLATFORM: Dr. Lauren Duffy, Dr. Lori Dickes, Dr. Edmond Bowers, Dr. James Burns, Dr. David Jachowski, Dr. Wayne Friedman The Schwehr South Africa Platform is working closely with Nelson Mandela University (NMU) in George (the Garden Route Region) to establish a hub that connects Clemson faculty and students to the public, non-profit, and private sectors of local South African communities. The platform is centered on the theme of social-ecological systems, and includes emphases on UN Sustainable Development Goals, youth leadership and development, and emerging frameworks of resilience in addressing complex global problems. Engineering + Modern Languages Project (UISFL Grant) Dr. Taimi Olsen, Dr. Rodrigo Martinez-Duarte, Dr. Johannes Schmidt, Dr. Brad Putman, Karen Franklin In alignment with the ClemsonForward strategic plan, faculty in Engineering and Modern Languages have collaborated to create new Engineering+Language programming that integrates global learning into the curriculum. The pilot program is being conducted between Mechanical Engineering and German. Key components of the program include: * A new Technical German course and two Calculus courses taught at Clemson University in German * Incorporation of International Virtual Exchange with German university partners * A semester abroad and an internship in an international, German-speaking context Fulbright-Hays Group Study Grant (India) Dr. Sarah Winslow, Dr. Andrew Pyle, Melissa Hawkins The Office of Global Engagement, Clemson’s Honors College and the South Carolina Governor’s School of Science and Mathematics have teamed up to develop course content and experiential learning opportunities for their university and K-12 students in India. Grant activities include a 4-week research trip to India and subsequent convocations and events to highlight new partnerships and programming in India. US-Serbia Partnership Project (Department of State Grant) Dr. Jeffrey S. Peake, Dr. Vladimir Matic, Dr. Dragan Simic, Dr. Dragan Zivojinovic This project is supported by a Department of State Serbia Partnership Grant (2020-2022) intended to deepen ties between the United States and Serbia, and to strengthen the institutional relationship between Clemson University and the University of Belgrade. Activities are divided into three discrete components: * University of Belgrade study abroad program at Clemson University * Development of International Virtual Exchange between the CU College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences and the Faculty of Political Sciences (FPN-Belgrade) * Short-term faculty exchanges between Clemson and Belgrade University Global Learning Institute Events and Resources: The Institute brings together faculty, staff, graduate students, and guests to explore strategies, resources, and opportunities for global learning on the Clemson campus and around the world. International Virtual Exchange (IVE) OVERVIEW To ensure Clemson graduates are prepared to thrive in an interconnected, global environment, the Office of Global Engagement is developing a number of Virtual+ programs with emphasis on International Virtual Exchange. The rapid technological changes of recent years have required educators to rethink the intercultural competencies students will need to be successful in increasingly blended communities and workplaces. International Virtual Exchange (IVE) is a valuable tool to increase student access to intercultural communication and promote their development as global digital citizens. For more information, check the IVE Workbook 2021. LATEST EVENTS: IVE CECAS Workshop 2021 (April 9th, 2021) Presentations IVE Workshop Fall 2020 (September 14-25th, 2020) Presentations DATABASE FOR INTERNATIONAL VIRTUAL EXCHANGE (DIVE): The Office of Global Engagement's new tool for International Virtual Exchange allows faculty to connect with international colleagues around the world to collaborate on instruction and develop joint projects. Watch the video tutorial. GROWING INTERNATIONAL VIRTUAL EXCHANGE -GIVE- WEBINAR, OCTOBER 9TH 2020: On October 9th, 2020, the University System of Georgia, Atlanta Global Studies Center, and Clemson's Office of Global Engagement held a workshop about Growing International Virtual Exchange. The webinar aim the conversations to discuss how to sustain global education in an accessible and inclusive way, both now and in the future. as well as to discover how academia can invest in virtual experiences for the 21st century. The webinar gather 125 participants from different regional institutions during the two sessions. FULBRIGHT-HAYS GROUP PROJECT GRANT WITH COLLEGE OF HONORS: The U.S. Department of Education awarded a Fulbright-Hays Group Project Abroad Grant to two educators at Clemson University to further build global service-learning and engagement opportunities in India for students and faculty. Clemson is committed to providing students with experiences that prepare them for what comes next, ensuring they have the skills to partner with colleagues from around the world to address pressing global challenges of the 21st century. Kyle Anderson, senior director of Clemson’s Office of Global Engagement, and Sarah Winslow, senior associate director of the Clemson University Honors College, want students to engage in “fair trade” learning, a balanced way of working alongside global collaborators so that knowledge and benefits are shared by all. “The proposed project grew out of strategic planning efforts at both Clemson and GSSM, as global engagement is an established priority for both of our institutions,” said Winslow, who is responsible for Honors College curriculum development, student engagement and experiential learning. “It will support our efforts to develop an innovative Honors College curriculum and enhance engagement opportunities, benefitting institutions throughout the state of South Carolina.” Learn more here... Global Service Learning 6th Global Service Learning Summit: One World: Inclusion and Transformation Presentations and Posters GSL6 website 2019 GLOBAL LEARNING INSTITUTE Presentations day 1 Presentations day 2 Speakers 2018 GLOBAL LEARNING INSTITUTE 2018 GLI website Presentations Speakers Other events Critical Thinking (CT2) and Global Challenges Institute 2020 Critical Thinking (CT2) and Global Challenges Institute Global Learning Institute Resources: GLI Tools and Resources International Virtual Exchange -IVE- IVE Workbook 2021 Global Service Learning Clemson Global Competency Outcomes Levels of Global Learning Matrix GLI Faculty Development Opportunities Global Learning Institute Faculty Fellow for 2021-2022 Fulbright Scholar Program Fulbright Specialist Program Home About Us Pam Hendrix Center for Education Abroad English Language Programs Global Learning Institute for Faculty Global Partnerships International Services High-Risk Travel Advisories Gift to Global Engagement Search Clemson Abroad Programs Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram