Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA UDisclose AAA UDisclose Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose COI Guidelines COI Key Personnel Disclosing COI in Publications and Presentations Conflict of Interest Instructions for the UDisclose System Frequently Asked Questions Glossary and Acronyms *Please note you must have a CaneID to log in. If you require CaneID support, please contact the CANEID Help Desk or email help@miami.edu. The University of Miami is home to the brightest faculty, researchers, and scholars whose prolific endeavors are achieving the University’s hemispheric mission. Our commitment to acting responsibly and transparently in all our interactions both domestically and abroad helps to maintain and protect our established ethical and trustworthy environment and reputation with internal and external stakeholders. UM’s new “Conflict of Interest, Conflict of Commitment, Foreign Influence, and Institutional Conflict of Interest Policy” was approved by the UM Faculty Senate and Board of Trustees that addresses institutional vulnerabilities with attention to Conflict of Interest and Foreign Influence. Read the communication from UM's leadership regarding the NEW UDisclose system and the policy. In order to support our commitment to transparency while minimizing associated administrative burden, the University has invested in a robust, university-wide system enabling quick and thorough review and management of conflicts throughout the institution, including those that might introduce detrimental foreign impacts. Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management The role of Disclosures & Scholarly Activities Management (DSAM, formerly the DRM) and the UM COI Committee (COIC) is to determine whether an investigator’s relationship with an external entity creates a situation that could introduce bias into the scholarly activities conducted at UM or by UM investigators, and, where this occurs, to manage it. Click the "COI Guidelines" link on the left to see examples of relationships that the COIC may consider as a potential COI, and a description of components that, based on the nature of the COI, describes stipulations that could be included in COI management plans in order to mitigate the COI. Get Help UDisclose Training Resources including videos, guides, tip sheets and more. For questions on how to use the UDisclose System (such as what to disclose, the COI policy, etc.): Disclosures and Scholarly Activities Management (DSAM) via DSAM@miami.edu, or (305) 243-0877. For technical support with the UDisclose System: Research Intelligence and Capacity (RIC) IT help desk via OVPRShelpdesk@miami.edu, or (305) 243-2314. For other questions or comments about the UDisclose System, please feel free to submit an entry via our question box here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices