By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Veterans Notable Veteran Alumni More from this Section Operation Veteran Promise Requirements Contact Meet with Us Notable Veteran Alumni Syracuse University has long provided educational opportunities for veterans, not just because it's the right thing to do, but because of the perspective and experience service members bring to campus. Colonel Eileen Collins ’78 From its leadership role in the original G.I. Bill to the Institute for Veterans and Military Families and the new National Veterans Resource Complex , Syracuse University is a place where veterans can thrive. Read their stories Alumni William “Bill” F. Allyn G’59 Chief Executive Officer and President of Welch Allyn, Inc., founded Handheld Products, Inc. and Everest VIT, served on multiple foundation boards Brad Anderson ’43 American cartoonist and creator of the comic strips Marmaduke and Grandpa’s Boy Louis F. Bantle ’51 C.E.O. of U.S. Tobacco, philanthropist and humanitarian Robert A. Beck ’50 Chairman and CEO of Prudential, leader of United Way of America, influential in federal politics Joseph “Beau” Biden III L’94 Former Federal Prosecutor and Delaware Attorney General Major General Franklin J. Blaisdell ’71 Commandant of the Armed Forces Staff College, Director of Strategic Security and Deputy Chief of Staff for Air and Space Operations, recipient of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior Service Medal, and the Legion of Merit Bill Coghill ’72 Vietnam veteran, recipient of two Purple Hearts, football athlete, archaeologist Colonel Eileen Collins ’78 The first woman astronaut to both pilot and then command a Space Shuttle mission Major General Peggy Combs ’85 First female general officer from upstate New York, First female Commander of U.S. Cadet Command, Joint Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Operations Officer for U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM), Chief of Staff for the Iraq Training and Advisory Mission John T. Connor ’36 President and Chief Executive of Merck, 16th Secretary of Commerce,CEO of Allied Signal Gerald Cramer ’52 2006 George Arents Pioneer Medal recipient, Syracuse University’s highest alumni honor David M. Crane D’80 Legal scholar and Chief Prosecutor of the Special Court of Sierra Leone Michael Crow D’85 Arizona State University President Maj. Gen. James E. Freeze G’67 Chairman of the Board for Pinkerton Government Services, Inc., (“PGS”) and Paragon Systems, Inc Marshall M. Gelfand ’50 Started the successful entertainment management firm Rennert & Feldman, LLP Alan Gerry H’13 Founder of Cablevision Industries and Granite Associates, LP, philanthropist Samuel V. Goakjian ’52 Chairman and CEO of Consolidated Westway Group, Inc. Patrice Grant ’97, ’06 Producer/Editor for the American Forces Network (AFN), honored as one of the Veterans in Blue for the Air Force Aaron Hudson ’11 Technology Analyst for J.P. Morgan Richard M. Jones ’92, G’95 Executive Vice President of CBS, lecturer and veterans advocate Bernard R. Kossar ’53, L’55 Trustee, active Board of Advisors member, and guest lecturer at Syracuse University David C. Knapp ’47 President Emeritus of the University of Massachusetts Seymour ‘Cy’ Leslie ’45 Founder of Pickwick Records, President of CBS Video Enterprises, and Founder and Chairman of MGM/UA Home Entertainment Group Donald S. MacNaughton, Jr. ’39, L’48 President and Chief Executive Officer of Prudential, President of Hospital Corporation of America, Syracuse University College of Law trustee John M. McHugh ’70 21st Secretary of the Army Jack Milton ’51 Successful owner of Milton CAT, philanthropist, and wartime veteran The Honorable Norman A. Mordue L’71 Purple Heart and Bronze Star recipient, New York State Supreme Court justice, Northern District of New York Senior Judge appointed by President Clinton Daniel Patrick Moynihan H’84 United States Senator, Ambassador to the United Nations, Ambassador to India, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Policy Planning and Research for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, Counselor to the President on Urban Affairs for President Nixon Dr. Franklin Story Musgrave ’58 Accomplished pilot and only astronaut to fly on all five NASA Space Shuttles Bismarck Myrick G’73 Senior Foreign Service diplomat, U.S. Ambassador to Lesotho Stacy L. Pearsall ’05 Combat photographer, author, educator, military consultant, public speaker and founder of the Veterans Portrait Project Lorimer Rich ’14 Architect who designed the Tomb of the Unknowns Arthur Rock ’48 Venture capitalist and philanthropist Senator Warren Bruce Rudman ’52 State Attorney General and later U.S. Senator from New Hampshire William Safire ’51, H’78 Nixon speechwriter, Pulitzer Prize winning columnist and author Colonel F. William (Bill) Smullen G’74 Director of the National Security Studies program and Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at Syracuse University’s Maxwell School Melvin T. Stith G’73, D’77 Former Dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Business and former Dean of the Florida State University College of Business John P. White G’64, D’69 U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics, Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget,Chairman and CEO of Interactive Systems, Senior Vice President for National Security Research Programs for RAND, recipient of the Medal for Distinguished Public Service from the Department of Defense Martin J. Whitman ’49 Founded the M.J. Whitman LLC and authored several books. The Martin J. Whitman School of Business is named in his honor. John A. Williams ’50 Author, 1970 Syracuse University Centennial Medal for Outstanding Achievement recipient Save Save Save Save Save Save Related Pages Alumni Services Did you know that if you completed 60 credit hours at Syracuse University, you are a member of the Alumni Association automatically—and that it’s free? Career Services The beginning of your successful career doesn't start when you graduate—it starts the minute you join us. We can help connect your coursework, passions, and activities to a career that you're going to love. Student Veterans Organization The SVO provides a great way to get involved on campus and gives you a sense of camaraderie as you transition to academic life. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy