COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication - Electronic Media , Major MajorCommunication - Electronic Media All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Elliott School of Communication Wichita State's Bachelor of Arts (BA) in communication—electronic media emphasis—combines classroom and hands-on learning in digital storytelling techniques. Graduates are well prepared for careers in producing, directing, writing, videography or working in any number of visual platforms. Learn how the communication - electronic media emphasis - is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Professional media arts facility is a game changer WSU is home to a brand new, state-of-the-art professional production space – Shocker Studios. Located in the Harry Street Mall, Shocker Studios is home to the Bachelor of Applied Arts in Media Arts, one of only a handful of degrees in the United States that focus on animation, audio production, game design and filmmaking. The 35,000-square-foot Shocker Studios includes recording studios, a virtual reality studio, film studios, a motion capture studio, computer labs, design studios and general classrooms. Curriculum In addition to taking the communication core courses required for all Elliott School students, you'll learn audio production, studio video production, video storytelling, interactive media, writing and more. A departmental honors track is also available for this major. View the curriculum Careers A communication degree from Wichita State combines the classroom knowledge and hands-on learning that opens doors to careers in many fields—from public relations and journalism to editing and education. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Graphic Design Electronic Media (Studio Art) Audio Production 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©