Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Programs and Policies » Academic Writing Center » Meet the Tutors Set Navigation title in component Academic Coaching Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Meet the Tutors Annie W. Major: Speech Language and Hearing Sciences Year: Sophomore Annie is a second-year undergraduate student studying Speech Language and Hearing Sciences. She is involved in NSSHLA and MC2 on campus. She enjoys running, eating Skyline, and going to sporting events. Autumn K. Major: History and Liberal Arts Year: Sophomore Autumn is a second-year History and Liberal Arts student and is also pursuing minors/certificates in Sport Media and Promotion, Sport Administration, Management, Legal Studies, and Business Law. She is originally from a small town in southeastern Kentucky. In addition to working a tutor at the Academic Writing Center, Autumn is a member of the UC Women's Golf team, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Phi Alpha Delta, and the University Honors Program. In her free time, she enjoys volunteering, hanging out with friends, exploring the city, and cheering on the Bearcats! Joseph O. Major: English Year: Graduate Joseph is a English PhD student whose research interests include Jewish-American literature, humor, modernism, and film studies. He has years of tutoring experience and has worked previously as the Assistant Coordinator of the Academic Resource and Writing Centers at Ohio Dominican University. Kristen C. Major: Community and Organizational Research for Action Year: Graduate Kristen is a fifth-year doctoral student in the Community and Organizational Research for Action program in the Psychology Department. Her main areas of research include allyship, leadership, diversity, and the intersection of these concepts. She earned her B.S. and M.S. degrees in Psychology at Georgia Southern University in 2014 and 2016, respectively. In her free time, Kristen enjoys running, hiking, spending time with her 90lb lap dog, and cooking new recipes. Mika K. Major: Fine Arts & Art History Year: Senior Mika (Mee-ka) is a fourth-year with a double major in Fine Arts and Art History. She is on the executive boards for three video game clubs on campus. When not helping students improve their writing assignments in the AWC, Mika enjoys gaming with friends, eating Graeter’s ice cream, and taming her Roborovski hamster Eris. Natasha M. Major: Criminal Justice Year: Graduate Natasha is a sixth year Criminal Justice Doctoral Student. Her research interests are early intervention and juvenile justice system policy. She joined the Academic Writing Center to help students become a better writer, and to indulge her love of writing. Rena L. Major: Medical Sciences and English Year: Junior Rena is in her third year at UC majoring in both English: Literary and Cultural Studies & Medical Sciences. When she’s not studying or helping students at the AWC, she’s walking around campus, watching Jeopardy! and playing Catan.  Skyler L. Major: Marketing and Anthropology Year: Senior Skyler is a fourth year at UC studying Marketing and Anthropology. She is also involved with many other on campus organizations, like Lindner Women in Business, CHAARG, and UCMC. Trevor D. Major: English Literary and Cultural Studies Year: Junior Trevor is a third year English Literary and Cultural Studies major at UC, who, in addition to working as an Academic Writing Center Tutor, is pursuing a certificate in Copyediting and Publishing and working as a Learning Community peer leader. He is from Louisville, KY and currently lives in Clifton. Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top