By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Graduate Contact More from this Section Apply Admitted International Contact Graduate Admissions We'd love to hear from you! Making a connection to the school, college, or program of interest gets you to information needed to start your application, learn more about funding, and establishing relationships with faculty. School/College Contacts Your school or college can offer the best answers to questions you may have. Check the list below for information on who to reach out to: School of Architecture Request Information from the School of Architecture Vittoria Buccina & Lauren Mintier 315.443.1041 archgrad@syr.edu soa.syr.edu College of Arts and Sciences Request Information from the College of Arts and Sciences Christopher N. Anderson Director of Undergraduate and Graduate Recruiting 315.443.4322 ASadmissions@syr.edu Graduate Program Directory thecollege.syr.edu College of Law Denee Page Assistant Dean of Enrollment Management 315.443.1962 admissions@law.syr.edu law.syr.edu School of Education Request Information from the School of Education Speranza Migliore, Assistant Director of Graduate Admissions and Recruitment 315.443.2505 smiglior@syr.edu soe.syr.edu College of Engineering and Computer Science Request Information from the College of Engineering and Computer Science Kathleen Joyce, Assistant Dean for Student Recruitment 315.443.2219 topgrads@syr.edu eng-cs.syr.edu David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Request Information from the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics Deborah Golia, Director of Admissions 315.443.5555 falk@syr.edu falk.syr.edu School of Information Studies Request Information from the School of Information Studies Susan B Corieri, Assistant Dean for Enrollment Management and Special Academic Program Initiatives 315.443.1713 iGrad@syr.edu ischool.syr.edu Martin J. Whitman School of Management Request Information from the Martin J. Whitman School of Management Christopher Wszalek, Executive Director, Graduate Admissions and Student Recruitment 315.443.4744 busgrad@syr.edu whitman.syr.edu Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Request Information from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs Cory J. Meyers Director of Enrollment Management 315.443.3959 cjmeyers@maxwell.syr.edu maxwell.syr.edu Stephanie Worden Associate Director, Admission and Financial Aid Public Administration and International Affairs 315.443.4000 ssworden@syr.edu maxwell.syr.edu Contact: 315.443.2252 info@maxwell.syr.edu S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Request Information from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications Martha Coria Assistant Director of Professional Master's Programs 315.443.4039 nhmasters@syr.edu newhouse.syr.edu College of Visual and Performing Arts Request Information from the College of Visual and Performing Arts Alexia McLean Assistant Director of Graduate Admissions 315.443.2769 admissg@syr.edu vpa.syr.edu General Questions If you would like to reach someone with a general question (not specific to your program), email grad@syr.edu or call 315.443.4492. Events in Your Area Syracuse University admissions representatives travel to graduate school fairs and tours across the U.S. and around the world. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy