Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Commencement Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search CommencementOpen main menu Close Open search Overview Schedule Close Schedule Logan Campus Statewide Campuses Photos, Programs, Videos Honorary Degrees Related Links Close Related Links Driving Directions Maps Provost Office Registrar's Office Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Utah State University 135th Commencement graduation cap Commencement Photos 2022 Commencement photos, recordings and programs are now available in the Commencement Archive. University Commencement Ceremony Thursday, May 5, 2022 9:00 a.m. Dee Glen Smith Spectrum 800 East 1000 North, Logan, Utah Graduates who wish to participate in the processional on the Logan campus will line up on the Quad at 8:00 a.m. and process to the Dee Glen Smith Spectrum at 8:30 a.m. The Commencement Ceremony will include the awarding of honorary degrees, announcement of university-wide faculty awards, and Commencement speeches. Graduation Ceremonies Utah State University plans to celebrate the class of 2021-22 graduates in person with many college and campus graduation ceremonies. Please see the Logan Campus and Statewide Campuses Schedule pages for the list of events. Ticketing Guest tickets will be required for all College Convocations and Hooding Ceremonies held on the Logan campus. Tickets are complimentary and can be reserved starting at 10:00 am on April 4, 2022, Reserve Tickets. For a direct link to specific convocations, click on the Schedule tab above then click on Logan Campus. Note: faculty and graduating students do not need tickets to participate. Event Parking Dowloadable parking maps are available for the Spectrum and Newell Daines Concert Hall. Spectrum Parking Map Newell Daines Concert Hall Parking Map Candidates for Bachelor's/Associate Degrees To participate in commencement events, a student must have filed an Application for Graduation with the Registrar's office (TSC 246) by February 28, 2022 and be a graduate (or anticipated graduate) of Summer 2021, Fall 2021, or Spring 2022 terms. Summer 2022 graduates are part of the class of 2022-23 and may "walk" early when approved by their college or statewide campus. For specific ceremony information, students may contact their college rep on the Logan Campus Schedule page or their campus rep on the Statewide Campuses Schedule page. Candidates for Master's and Doctoral Degrees Candidates for master's and doctoral degrees should have filed an Application for Graduation with the Registrar's office (TSC 2456) by February 28, 2022 and be a graduate (or anticipated graduate) of Sumer 2021, Fall 2021 or Spring 2022 semesters. Summer 2022 graduates are part of the class of 2022-23 and may "walk" early when approved for Early Commencement. Depending on whether a student is on Plan A, B, C, or a doctoral candidate, varying processes and paperwork exist which signal program completion and qualification for commencement participation. Students should visit the Semester Deadlines to identify the deadlines and necessary steps required for degree completion and have their degree posted to their transcript. If further clarification is required, please email gradcommencement@usu.edu. Graduate Hooding Candidates for master's and doctoral degrees will be hooded in their respective college's convocation or at a separate college hooding ceremony. Academic Regalia Gifts Participants in the ceremony should wear authorized caps and gowns. Commencement apparel is available to buy from the USU Campus Store. Your cap and gown can be purchased at the Logan Graduation Fair that is held at the Logan Campus Store on March 15-16, 2022 from 8 am - 6 pm or online through the USU Campus Store. Candidates for degrees wear the black mortarboard with a tassel that is a color distinctive of the degree being received. Many Statewide Campuses do provide regalia rentals for the ceremonies. If you plan to attend at USU Eastern or USU Blanding, you must purchase your own regalia through the campus store or online. Contact your statewide campus coordinator for more information. Contact information can be found on the Statewide Campuses Schedule. Please wear the prescribed academic costume that corresponds to your degree. Each part of the regalia has a traditional meaning specific to your major field, Utah State University, and higher education. Graduate degree candidates are asked to come to graduation ceremonies in full regalia. Stoles and Cultural Heritage Adornments Objects of cultural significance are also welcome as approved regalia for ceremonies. Students may choose to wear stoles offered by professional organizations or academic societies in their field-of-study. Students should contact these organizations directly to inquire about the availability and ordering of professional stoles. Gifts for Graduates Utah State University is so proud of all our graduates. We acknowledge that there are many others who are also proud and who have supported the 2021-22 graduates to achieve the significant accomplishment of earning a USU degree. Logan guests who are interested in purchasing gifts (including shirts, flowers, etc.) available for pick up at Commencement events, please see: The Commencement Group. Please note that a portion of proceeds goes toward Completion Scholarships and Grants at Utah State University. Tassel Colors Bachelor's Degrees Maize College of Agriculture and Applied Sciences Light Blue Emma Eccles Jones College of Education and Human Services Russet S.J. & Jessie E. Quinney College of Natural Resources Brown Caine College of the Arts Orange College of Engineering Yellow-Gold College of Science Drab Jon M. Huntsman School of Business White College of Humanities and Social Sciences Integrated Studies Bachelor's, Associate Degrees & Certificates Black Integrated Studies Bachelor's Degrees, Associate Degrees, and Certificates School of Graduate Studies Black School of Graduate Studies Diplomas and Diploma Covers Graduates who participate in live Commencement events will receive a diploma cover. Summer and Fall 2021 graduates have previously received their diplomas in the mail. Diplomas will be mailed to Spring 2022 graduates approximately six weeks after the end of the semester when grades have been verified and degrees conferred. These will be mailed to the address provided on the graduation packet. All 2021-22 graduates should make sure that both their preferred address and their diploma address in Banner are correct. Students can update the address in Banner and then should inform the Registrar’s Office via email at registrar@usu.edu. Summer Graduates Students who complete their degree requirements and have applied for graduation for the summer semester are part of the next graduating class (e.g. someone completing summer 2021 is part of the class of 2021-22). Fall Graduates Students who complete their degree requirements and have applied for graduation for the fall semester are part of the next graduating class (e.g. someone completing fall 2021 is part of the class of 2021-22). Spring Graduates Students who complete their degree requirements and have applied for graduation for the spring semester are part of that year’s graduating class (e.g. someone completing spring 2022 will be part of the class of 2021-22). They should plan to participate in the spring Commencement that corresponds with their graduation term. Questions Questions regarding your diploma should be sent to registrar@usu.edu. Questions regarding Commencement Ceremonies and Celebrations should be sent to commencement@usu.edu. Accommodations for Persons with Disabilities For information regarding ASL interpreting, accessible parking and wheelchair access for guests, please contact the box offices: Daines Concert Hall (435) 797-8022 or Dee Glen Smith Spectrum (435) 797-0305. Graduating participants in need of accommodations should contact the Disability Resource Center (435) 797-2444. On This Page Undergraduate Candidates Graduate Candidates Academic Regalia Stoles and Cultural Heritage Adornments Tassel Colors Diplomas Accommodations for Persons with Disabilities Commencement CONTACT 0121 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-0121 (435) 797-1128 commencement@usu.edu INFORMATION Diploma Questions Transcripts Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page