Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards NCA right arrow down arrow About NCA right arrow down arrow Programs and Events Understanding Fellowships Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us News Awards right arrow down arrow Core Awards right arrow down arrow Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program right arrow down arrow Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship right arrow down arrow Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship right arrow down arrow Udall Info Session Priority Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Awards right arrow down arrow Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship right arrow down arrow CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes right arrow down arrow Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship right arrow down arrow UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship right arrow down arrow Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards right arrow down arrow International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Applying right arrow down arrow Deciding to Apply Preparing Your Application right arrow down arrow Recommendation Letters Essay Strategies Developing as a Candidate The Leadership Essay Student Spotlight right arrow down arrow 2021–22 Award Winners 2020–21 Award Winners 2019–20 Award Winners 2018–19 Award Winners NCA Ambassadors Fulbright@UC right arrow down arrow Info Session Recordings UC Fulbright Winners Fulbright Boot Camp Aspire Scholars For Faculty Home » Campus Life » Office of Nationally Competitive Awards » Awards » Priority Awards » Boren Awards Set Navigation title in component Core Awards Fulbright U.S. Student Program Gaither Junior Fellows Program Gaither Info Session Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Info Session Marshall Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Mitchell Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Rhodes Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Truman Scholarship Truman Info Session Udall Scholarship Udall Info Session Priority Awards Boren Awards Boren Info Session Critical Language Scholarship CLS Info Session Fulbright UK Summer Institutes Fulbright UKSI Session Gates Cambridge Scholarship UK Awards Info Sessions Knight-Hennessy Scholarship National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Schwarzman Scholarship Schwarzman Scholarship Info Session Other Awards International Studies International Students Underrepresented and Minority Students Specific Interests or Disciplines Boren Awards The Boren Awards, an initiative of the National Security Education Program, provide funding for U.S. undergraduate and graduate students to study less commonly taught languages in world regions critical to U.S. interests, and underrepresented in study abroad, including Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East. The countries of Western Europe, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand are excluded. In exchange for funding, Boren Awardees commit to working in the federal government in the national security arena (broadly defined) for at least one year after graduation. This award does not require university endorsement. However, we strongly recommend that you work closely with NCA as you prepare your application. Deadlines Application Opens: August 2022 Campus Deadline: January 3, 2023 National Deadline: February 2023 (Scholarship); January 2023 (Fellowship) Read the NCA Boren Awards Q&A with Recent UC Boren Award Winner Julia James Award Details right arrow down arrow Boren Scholarship for undergraduates Up to $12,500 for 12-24 weeks of study abroad (a semester) or up to $25,000 for 25-52 weeks of study abroad (an academic year or full calendar year), with a preference for applicants who intend to spend a full academic year in their chosen country. Boren Fellowship for graduate students Up to $12,500 for 12-24 weeks of study abroad (a semester) or up to $25,000 for a minimum of 25-52 overseas and a maximum for 12 months overseas, with preference given to applicants proposing programs of 6 months or longer (though STEM applicants proposing 3-6 month programs are strongly encouraged to apply). Limited funding for supplemental domestic language study is also available. Special Initiatives Boren-ROTC Initiative (undergraduates only): a special initiative for any Army, Air Force, or Naval ROTC student on track to commission who is in an inactive, non-drilling status for the duration of overseas study. STEM Initiative (undergraduates only): provides up to $8,000 to STEM undergraduates for a summer study abroad program that lasts for a minimum of 8 weeks. African Flagship Languages Initiative (AFLI): offers graduate and undergraduate applicants the opportunity for intensive language study through domestic and overseas language programs in Akan/Twi, French, Portuguese, Swahili, Wolof, or Zulu. South Asian Flagship Languages Initiative (SAFLI): offers graduate and undergraduate applicants the opportunity for intensive language study of Hindi or Urdu and cultural immersion through domestic and overseas language programs. Indonesian Flagship Languages Initiative (IFLI): offers graduate and undergraduate applicants the opportunity for intensive language study of Indonesian and cultural immersion through domestic and overseas language programs. Turkish Flagship Languages Initiative (TURFLI): offers graduate and undergraduate applicants the opportunity for intensive language study of Indonesian and cultural immersion through domestic and overseas language programs. Who Should Apply right arrow down arrow Eligibility Criteria Currently enrolled undergraduate or graduate students who remained enrolled for the duration of their study abroad program U.S. citizens or permanent residents Applying to a study abroad in a country outside of Western Europe, Canada, Australia, or New Zealand Study abroad plan must include serious language study component No age limit, field of study restrictions, or GPA requirement Please refer to the Boren website for detailed descriptions of the scholarship eligibility criteria and the fellowship eligibility criteria. Selection Criteria Preference is given to: Students who are committed to a career in the federal government (rather than the minimum service required) Applicants proposing a full academic year, or at least two consecutive semesters, of study abroad Proposals for countries, languages, and fields of study critical to U.S. national security Please refer to the Boren website for detailed descriptions of the scholarship selection criteria and the fellowship selection criteria. Application Components right arrow down arrow Background information Short answer responses Essay 1: significance of proposed country, region, and language to national security and career goals Essay 2: study abroad program description Letters of recommendation (2-3) Language proficiency evaluation (optional) How to Apply right arrow down arrow In the fall, attend NCA Learning Series session on the Boren Awards. Contact NCA office (nca@uc.edu) to schedule an advising appointment. Carefully review award details on Boren website in advance of that appointment. Complete two NCA forms: Intake form Records Release Form and submit to nca@uc.edu Create application in Embark (applications become available in late August). Contact Ryan Meyer, Associate Director of International Programs (aka Study Abroad), to consult on study abroad programs. His email address is meyerr2@ucmail.uc.edu Applicants who opt into campus interview process must submit application by the Campus Deadline: January 3, 2023 Campus interviews take place in January. All applicants submit revised and final application by National Deadline January 2023 (Fellowship) February 2023 (Scholarship) Helpful Links, Tips, and Reminders right arrow down arrow Every year, Boren offers helpful webinars. We highly recommend you watch the one(s) best suited to your application type. NCA and Study Abroad are available to provide feedback on your essays. If possible, you may also wish to secure a specialist reader who is knowledgeable about the region of the world you have chosen or your area of national security. The essays are a very important piece of this application, so make sure you give yourself time to work through a series of drafts. Information on this page is intended to supplement, not supplant, your own careful review of the official Boren website. If you find any discrepancy between the two, the Boren website takes precedence. Though you should seek out others’ advice and feedback on your application, the essays should be your original work (no one should be writing your essays for you). UC’s Student Code of Conduct applies. Recent Awardees right arrow down arrow Will Thompson, Fellow, Jordan, 2022. Caleb Akers, Scholar, Indonesia, 2021. Adam Elzarka, Scholar, Jordan, 2021. Nicholas Marx, Scholar, Senegal, 2021. Austin Snider, Scholar, South Korea, 2021. Isabel Slonneger - Finalist, Brazil, 2020. Julia James - Scholar, Indonesia, 2019. Related Awards right arrow down arrow If you're interested in language learning opportunities, you may want to explore these other options, too: The U.S. Department of State has launched a new website to serve as a resource for information on language scholarships and training programs offered by the federal government, available now at https://language.state.gov. With the launch comes a message to the U.S. higher education community from the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Academic Programs at the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs Caroline Casagrande. Download a PDF of her statement. Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 nca@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of Nationally Competitive Awards 707A Swift Hall 513-556-1003 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top