Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ SMU Perkins School of Theology Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends As alumni/ae and friends of Perkins School of Theology, you have a significant influence upon persons seeking to answer God’s call to ministry through theological education. By participating in Perkins’ various advisory boards, giving opportunities, and public programs, you take on a vital role in preparing women and men for leadership in the church of Jesus Christ. Further, you become a means of connecting former students with one another, as well as with resources to equip and strengthen ministry in the church and world. Explore the range of avenues and resources by which alums can be in vital partnership with Perkins. Give Update Your Records Get Involved Engagement Opportunities Faith and Business Luncheons Details coming soon for the next Faith and Business Luncheon. More information Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Read about the March 2022 Bolin Family Scholarship Luncheon here. More information Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Each year, Perkins School of Theology recognizes Perkins graduates who have demonstrated effectiveness and integrity in service to the church, continuing support and involvement in the goals of Perkins School of Theology and SMU, distinguished service in the wider community and exemplary character. More information Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award The Woodrow B. Seals Laity Award is presented annually to a layperson in the United States who exemplifies an exceptional commitment of service to Christ through faith and action in the church, community and the world. More information Publications Perspective magazine, distributed annually, is the official print publication for alumni/ae, friends, donors and supporters of Perkins School of Theology. Letters to the editor and contributions to Alumni/ae News are welcomed. See current and back issues. Our monthly e-newsletter, Perspective Online, provides regular Perkins updates including alumni/ae news. Send us your updates here. Sign up for Email Newsletter An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share