Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Menu Toggle Search Report a Concern Main navigation About Meet the Staff FAQ How Can We Help Services We Offer Disability Accommodations Religious Accommodation Reporting a Concern Training, Learning, and Development Resources and Policies Resources & Policies Info Affirmative Action Annual Reports Discrimination & Harassment Equal Opportunity Council InclusAbility Recruitment Resources Diversity Recruitment and Retention Toolkit Title IX Title IX Info Consent is BAE Reporting Sexual Assault Title IX Resources Title IX General Resource Guide Title IX Respondent's Resource Guide OEO Bulletin: News & Articles Forms How to Report a Concern Iowa State University's primary goal is to prevent discrimination and harassment and stop such behavior if it occurs. To that end, Iowa State University has adopted informal and formal processes through which discrimination and harassment complaints can be resolved. Iowa State University takes all claims of discrimination and harassment seriously. If you feel that you have been discriminated or harassed based on race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex, marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. Veteran, you may report a concern with the Office of Equal Opportunity via the following methods: Via phone: 515-294-7612 or Hotline: 515-294-1222 Via email: eooffice@iastate.edu In person: 3410 Beardshear Hall, 515 Morrill Road by appointment Monday - Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. If you wish to file a complaint with an external agency: Iowa Civil Rights Commission U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights Conflict Resolution You may seek informal resolution or file a formal complaint. Both procedures are explained in the University's Discrimination and Harassment Policy. The staff at the Office of Equal Opportunity can explain our policies to you and assist in initiating the resolution process. If you would like assistance to discuss your options in more detail, Faculty and Staff may contact one of the EO Council, who are specially trained to help you through this process. Students may contact Student Assistance in the Dean of Students Office to discuss their options. In addition, there are other university policies that identify and explain conflict resolution procedures in various settings. Faculty Conduct Policy Title IX (Sexual Misconduct Policy) Sexual Misconduct & Sexual Assault Website Iowa State University Office of Equal Opportunity Contact Office of Equal Opportunity 515 Morrill Road 3410 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011 eooffice@iastate.edu 515-294-7612 phone 515-294-2202 fax Office Hours Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...