Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Recreational Therapy Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Recreational Therapy Major Apply Request More Info Recreational Therapy Major Accreditation Information and Outcomes Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Recreational Therapy The Bachelor of Science in Recreational Therapy at Temple’s College of Public Health prepares you to become a recreational therapist trained to work in a range of environments, including healthcare and community-based settings. Recreational therapists use a variety of techniques—such as adapted sports, expressive arts and life skills—to treat and maintain the emotional, psychological and physical health of patients with illnesses or disabilities. You will be trained to assess people’s physical and mental needs, plan and implement specific interventions to meet treatment goals, and document and evaluate the effectiveness of the interventions. Students in the Recreational Therapy Major develop a thorough understanding of foundations of recreational therapy; how to lead a variety of structured recreation activities, including adaptive sports, animal-assisted therapy, aquatic therapy, social skills training and stress management; patient assessment and health documentation; related clinical procedures, including client intake and treatment planning; and clinical research and evaluation methods. Learn more about the profession of recreation therapy. What sets apart our Recreational Therapy Major? An innovative approach to health promotion: Recreational therapists work with individuals with disabilities, health limitations or illnesses, helping them lead active, engaging and meaningful lives through the use of activity-based interventions designed to enhance health and rehabilitation. A dynamic urban environment: Our students capitalize on Temple’s urban, multicultural environment, and the program’s learning technologies to become better recreational therapists. A renowned program: Our recreational therapy program has a strong reputation and is one of the oldest programs of its kind in the country. Accelerated Undergraduate/Graduate Degree Program The College of Public Health offers the option of earning both a BS and an MS in Recreational Therapy in five years, rather than taking the typical six years to complete both degrees. High-performing undergraduate students can apply for admission to this accelerated program at the beginning of their junior year. They begin taking graduate-level courses in senior year and can typically complete the MS in Recreational Therapy within a year after graduating from the BS program. Learn more about the 4+1 Recreational Therapy Major/Recreational Therapy MS program. Program Format Students in the program complete 121 credits, including 39 credits of recreational therapy courses; six credits of health-related professions courses; and 21 to 23 credits of courses in human anatomy, motor behavior and physiology, and psychology. See a full list of program courses. Certification Earning your Bachelor of Science in Recreational Therapy prepares you to take the exam to become a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist, a national certification employers often require before hiring candidates in this field. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees Recreational Therapy MS Master of Occupational Therapy Doctor of Occupational Therapy Doctor of Physical Therapy Kinesiology MS, Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology Kinesiology MS, Concentration in Psychology of Movement Health Policy and Management MPH Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-RLTH-BS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Recreational Therapy Major Accreditation Information and Outcomes Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info