Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Physics Show/Hide About Graduate Information for Prospective PhD Students Information for Current Students Information for Prospective ScM Students Program Directors & Representatives Frequently Asked Questions Undergraduate Research Courses People Events Centers Diversity & Inclusion Room Reservations Resources During COVID Graduate Program At Brown Physics, we are committed to an inclusive environment that fosters success. The graduate program provides students the opportunity to perform research in cutting-edge areas of contemporary physics. With its 30 active faculty members, the Department of Physics offers graduate student research opportunities in theoretical and experimental physics in condensed matter, high energy and particles, cosmology, astrophysics, and biophysics. The Department is the host of the Center for the Fundamental Physics of the Universe and the Brown Theoretical Physics Center. Several department members participate in large national and international collaborations, such as the Large Hadron Collider. The graduate program comprises more than 100 graduate students from many different countries and backgrounds. We offer responsive advising throughout the duration of the program, from academic advising in the early stages to career counseling and post-graduation opportunities. In addition, the Graduate Program is enriched with multiple seminars, colloquia, workshops, and conferences that provide an opportunity for students to engage with visiting scholars. You can find more information at Grad School Shopper.com. For the Ph.D. Doctoral Program, click here. For the M.S. Masters Program, click here. Information for prospective graduate students The application to apply for the PhD program in Fall 2021 is open (The deadline this year is Thursday, January 7th). The department's Open House for admitted students will be announced. Admitted students will be contacted with more details. Individual assessments regarding the eligibility of application materials are not possible, do not email the department looking for feedback on your qualifications or how to maximize your chances. All applications are considered equally after submission - presenting the strongest application is the recommendation to all. The Personal Statement section is required, but the writing sample/essay is not applicable to Physics applications. International applicants: With the exception of applicants who have previously attended an institution in Canada, the UK, or Australia, all international applicants must provide verified transcripts before they can be offered admission by the Graduate School. Applicants must provide transcripts for all previous institutions attended, and those from institutions not in the countries listed above must be verified. Applicants may use CertiFile or WES for these reports. Please request the course-by-course report. Applicants who have been recommended for admission by the Physics Ph.D. or master's program will be asked to submit these materials at a later date. Only after receipt of these materials can applicants be offered admission by the Graduate School. Admissions decisions will be sent to you by the Graduate School when they are made. The department cannot share this information with you directly. However, if you have any questions about the program, please contact [email protected] For answers to Frequently Asked Questions about the admissions process, please refer to our FAQ page. The Sc.M. program has rolling admissions. The application deadline is April 15th. Graduate Information for Prospective PhD Students Information for Current Students Information for Prospective ScM Students Program Directors & Representatives Frequently Asked Questions Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Physics Department of Physics Brown University Box 1843 182 Hope Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2641 Fax: 401-863-2024 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Make a Gift Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat