Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Project Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES During COVID-19, many school districts have been preparing for unprecedented funding cute. These cuts may disproportionately reduce financial and staff resources in districts with high concentrations of low-SES, Black, and Hispanic students, the same groups whose families are more negatively impacted by recessions. School funding cuts may magnify effects of COVID-19 on inequality. This project considers how COVID-19 alters K-12 educational resources (revenue, spending, staff) and examines whether implications differ by state funding progressivity or by race/SES either between or within districts. In theory, progressive funding should reduce inequality and effects of funding cuts. Rauscher examines four states with school-level spending data: Rhode Island, Michigan, Kansas, and Oklahoma. By identifying resources that become more unequally distributed, school districts districts and states can more effectively target those resources and reduce inequality. Investigator(s) Emily Rauscher Other Research Projects American Communities Project Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Changing long-term care in America: policies, markets, strategies, and outcomes NEW NOLA: Demographic trends in New Orleans’ population Identifying targets for reducing obesity caused by early life disadvantages Poverty, health, and inequality in child development Research Categories Rhode Island Projects Domestic Projects International Projects Research to Policy Projects Spatial Projects Selected Publications Implications of Social and Legal Status on Immigrants’ Health in Disaster Zones. Elizabeth Fussell et al. American Journal of Public Health. 2018. 108(12): 1617-1620. The Uptick in Income Segregation: Real Trend or Random Sampling Variation? John R. Logan, Arnold Foster, Jun Ke, And Fan Li. American Journal of Sociology. 2018. 124: 185-222. Masculinity, Money, and the Postponement of Parenthood in Nigeria. Smith, D. J. Population and Development Review. 2020. 46(1): 101-120. More Publications Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat