Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Spiritual Life Menu Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss How to Support Those Who are Grieving Campus Resources Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ Baylor>Spiritual Life>What We Do>Pastoral Care>Notifying Professors of a Crisis Notifying Professors of a Crisis In the event that you must miss class because of a major crisis such as hospitalization, accident, family crisis or the death of an immediate family member (parent or sibling), we want to be of help in order to offer care and to notify others here on campus. You may contact the Office of the University Chaplain at 254-710-3517 and someone will notify your professors to let them know of the crisis until you are able to communicate with them on your own. Remember however, there are no excused absences at Baylor. Our notification is simply a ministry to you during a crisis and does not excuse the absence. If your situation is not a major crisis, please notify your professors personally so that they will be aware that your absence is for family or personal reasons. What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss How to Support Those Who are Grieving Campus Resources Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Baylor Spiritual Life Corner of 5th & Speight Street 500 Speight Street Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-3517 Spiritual_Life@baylor.edu Baylor Chapel Pastoral Care Missions & Public Life Baylor Student Life General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Who We Are Meet the University Chaplain Staff Dr. Burt Burleson Rebecca Kennedy John Maurer Dr. Erin Moniz Dr. Charles Ramsey The Bobo Spiritual Life Center Building Reservation Application What We Do Pastoral Care Meeting with a Chaplain Notifying Professors of a Crisis Getting Direction for your Spiritual Life Dealing with Grief and Loss Spiritual Practices Chapel Global Missions Local Ministries Sports Ministry Faith & Deliberation The Good Neighbor Initiative Students Get Involved Religious Organizations Baptist Student Ministries Needing Prayer or Care? Chapel Information Find a Church Local Churches Transportation To Church Class of 2025 Class Hymn Faculty/Staff Notifications from the Chaplain's Office Reporting a Death in the Community Ministering to Your Staff Prayer Services & Worship Spiritual Direction Prayer Services for your Department Be a Missions Team Leader News FAQ