Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Hong Kong Home Connect Chapters International Hong Kong International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore The Hong Kong Chapter of Boston College welcomes alumni, parents and friends from China. Whether you are planning on visiting Hong Kong, have lived here for years, or are a new expatriate, all are encouraged to participate in the chapter’s events! We have Eagles living throughout Asia and are always seeking new volunteers to enrich and strengthen the regional chapter and it’s goals. 369 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Hong Kong Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders George Yang '16 Lives in: Hong Kong Major: Bachelor in Management with Concentration in Finance and Information Systems Occupation: Chief Commercial Officer at Onerent, a SaaS Property Leasing & Management Company Favorite BC Memory: There were so many great memories at BC, but I think the best memory came the very last weekend as we looked into the sunrise after staying up all night realizing just how far we have come: from teenagers to young adults, ready to show the world just what we are made of. It was a moment I will never forget realizing that this is the end of one journey and the beginning of another. It was a bittersweet moment. Then my friend almost missed his own graduation by sleeping in, so that was a close second favorite memory! Why I got involved: Your past shapes you. BC shaped me into the person that I am. I simply want to give back to the community that has given me so much. Ever since I was at BC, I would meet up with people from my city and we would regularly have gatherings to check up on one another and have a bit of fun together. I missed the BC community being in Hong Kong, but then realized just how many Eagles actually live here! I figured I would like to help in creating that BC culture here in Hong Kong, 16 hours away by air from Chestnut Hill! What are your local favorites in your city?: I am a massive football fan and still play regularly in Hong Kong! The amateur scene is big here, and there are a couple of top quality amateur leagues in the Yau Yee League and Legal League. I have been playing in them since coming back, but recently I have been playing in the HK Football Association leagues. Definitely the local sporting scene is fun and easy to get into! For food: Healthy Chicken! Fun Fact: I have scored in an official recorded FIFA football match! Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Katie Foley Contact: foleyby@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok