COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Student and Employee COVID-19 Testing Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. If you have pre registered through MDL you can enter through the Wesley clinic door on the east side of the building. For registration information visit our COVID-19 testing page. COVID-19 Campus Signage Section Menu COVID-19 Response Home University Announcements Current Students Guide Future Shockers Guide WSU Employees and Supervisors Guide Instructors FAQ Index of FAQ Questions COVID-19 Vaccination Information COVID-19 Research Student Health COVID-19 Page COVID-19 Self-Observation questionnaires COVID-19 Dashboard Timeline of WSU's COVID response Use the downloadable signage templates on this page to make visitors aware of CDC guidelines on how to protect yourself and those around you. Downloadable Signs Please use only blue painter's tape when affixing signage to walls, floors and equipment. This will help us avoid unnecessary damage to surfaces and property. Best practices signs Color and grayscale versions. Best practices - mask required 8.5x11" color and grayscale 11x17" color and grayscale Mask required 8.5x11" color and grayscale 11x17" color and grayscale Symptom check signs Color and grayscale versions. Signs & symptoms Outlines common COVID-19 symptoms and warning signs. 8.5x11" color and grayscale Note: This sign is two 8.5x11" pages. Print both pages and tape together before hanging. 11x17" color and grayscale Wellness check Reminds people to check themselves for symptoms. 8.5x11" color and grayscale Note: This sign is two 8.5x11" pages. Print both pages and tape together before hanging. 11x17" color and grayscale Entry check Provides details on what to do before entering a building. 8.5x11" color and grayscale Note: This sign is two 8.5x11" pages. Print both pages and tape together before hanging. 11x17" color and grayscale Mask availability signs Color and grayscale versions. Masks available here 8.5x11" color and grayscale 11x17" color and grayscale Masks available at info desk 8.5x11" color and grayscale 11x17" color and grayscale 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©