Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Campus Recreation Hours-Schedule Member Services Member Services Online Member Portal Online Member Portal Instructions Membership Rates Fees Room Reservations and Events Parking Programs Programs Aquatics Fitness Intramural Sports Outdoor Adventures Sport Clubs Youth Spirit Spirit Band Rotunda Spirit Squads About ☰ Campus Recreation Spirit Rotunda WHAT IS THE ROTUNDA? For over 100 years, the Rotunda has chronicled the history of Southern Methodist University and serves as the school's primary source of recorded history. Named in December 1915 after the architecture of Dallas Hall, the Executive Council of the Student Association voted for the annual’s name after seven different students suggested it. From its beautiful art to captivating themes, the Rotunda has evolved with the times, earning awards and national recognition from the Associated Collegiate Press (ACP), the College Media Association (CMA) and Columbia Scholastic Press Association (CSPA). Our mission is to produce an accurate depiction of the life of SMU students through comprehensive, in-depth stories, intentional photography and dynamic design. From 1930-2018, the Rotunda was published under Student Media Company (SMC), SMU’s independent, student-led publishing company. It was announced in April 2018 that SMC would shut down. As of June 1, 2018, SMU Division of Student Affairs took over production. Working alongside students and alumni, Southern Methodist University is committed to keeping the Rotunda alive and ensure the quality of future publications. Apply to be on Staff Purchase Rotunda DROP US A LINE... Have questions about the Rotunda? We're here to help. The staff will begin work on the new Rotunda Lookbook, the SMU annual, shortly into the school year, and there's almost always someone in the office who can help you get involved. If you're a student group interested in Rotunda coverage or if you would like to become a part of the Rotunda staff, you can contact Jessica King by e-mail at kingj@smu.edu, or you can swing by the Rotunda office in The Dedman Center for Lifetime Sports. If you are unsure if you or your student has ordered a copy of the 2019-2020 Rotunda or a previous year, please contact rotunda@smu.edu. RECENT AWARDS 2019 Rotunda Pacemaker Finalist from Associated Collegiate Press (ACP) 2019 Rotunda Gold Crown Award from Columbia Scholastic Press Association (CSPA) 2019 Rotunda Best Yearbook Page Spread for the Spirit Spread from the College Media Association (CMA) 2019 Rotunda All Columbian Honors in all three categories: Verbal, Visual and Reference from CSPA 2019 Rotunda Gold Medalist from CSPA 2019 Rotunda 17 Gold Circles from CSPA including Best Cover, Headline Writing, Theme and Concept, Photography and Design 2017 Rotunda Gold Crown Award from CSPA 2017 Rotunda Gold Medalist from CSPA 2017 Rotunda 9 Gold Circles from CSPA 2017 Rotunda Pacemaker Finalist from ACP 2016 Rotunda Printing Industries of America - Premier Print Award Certificate of Merit 2016 Rotunda Gold Medalist from from CSPA 2016 Rotunda 2 Gold Circles from CSPA 2015 Rotunda Pacemaker Finalist from ACP Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share