Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas People Senior Officers Andrew Campbell Andrew G. Campbell Dean of the Graduate School [email protected] 401-863-2532 Dean of the Graduate School Mukesh Jain Dr. Mukesh K. Jain Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences [email protected] Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences Ashish K. Jha Ashish K. Jha Dean, School of Public Health 121 South Main Street [email protected] DEAN OF THE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH, PROFESSOR OF HEALTH SERVICES, POLICY, AND PRACTICE Lawrence Larson Lawrence E. Larson Sorensen Family Dean of Engineering [email protected] 401-863-1422 Faculty Profile Adrienne Marcus Adrienne Marcus Dean, Pre-college and Undergraduate Summer Programs [email protected] (401) 863-5297 Kevin McLaughlin Kevin McLaughlin Dean of the Faculty, George Hazard Crooker University Professor of English, Professor of Comparative Literature, Professor of German Studies University Hall [email protected] 401-863-9525 Dean of Faculty Joseph Meisel Joseph Meisel Joukowsky Family University Librarian [email protected] 401-863-2162 University Library Jill Pipher Jill Pipher Vice President for Research; Elisha Benjamin Andrews Professor of Mathematics 47 George Street, Room 302 [email protected] +1 (401) 863-7408 Office of the Vice President for Research Logan Powell Logan Powell Dean of Admission [email protected] 401-863-7940 Admission Bill Thirsk Bill Thirsk Chief Digital Officer and Chief Information Officer Chief Digital Officer and Chief Information Officer James Tilton James Tilton Dean of Financial Aid [email protected] 401-863-2721 Financial Aid Leah VanWey Leah Vanwey Dean, School of Professional Studies [email protected] View Bio Michael White Michael P. White Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer [email protected] Rashid Zia Rashid Zia Dean of the College, Associate Professor of Engineering, Associate Professor of Physics [email protected] Dean of the College Office of the Provost K. Tracy Barnes K. Tracy Barnes Director of Institutional Research Tracy Barnes oversees the University Office of Institutional Research (OIR). OIR advances the planning and evaluation efforts of the University’s senior administration by conducting research on the University’s academic programs, policies, facilities, enrollment projections, and external environment. [email protected] 401-863-1914 Institutional Research Elizabeth Doherty Elizabeth Doherty Deputy Provost for Academic Affairs Senior administrator on academic and faculty affairs; oversees academic program reviews and works with departments and senor officers on strategic planning; staffs the Academic Priorities Committee. [email protected] 401-863-7845 Richard Locke Richard M. Locke Provost [email protected] 401-863-2706 Schreiber Family Professor of Political Science and International and Public Affairs Lynda Murphy Lynda Murphy Executive Assistant to the Provost Lynda Murphy manages the provost's calendar. She also manages the calendar for the associate provost for space. UH 114 [email protected] 401-863-2706 Asabe Poloma Asabe Poloma Associate Provost for Global Engagement As associate provost, Asabe oversees the Office of Global Engagement and leads, coordinates and supports Brown’s international strategy both on campus and around the world. [email protected] Associate Provost for Global Engagement and Director of the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Stephen Porder Stephen Porder Assistant Provost for Sustainability Responsible for working with Department of Facilities Management and senior university leaders to develop a plan for Brown to achieve net zero emissions within an ambitious and achievable timeframe. [email protected] +1-401-863-6356 Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Shankar Prasad Shankar Prasad Deputy Provost for Strategic Initiatives The Deputy Provost for Strategic Initiatives is responsible for a broad portfolio in support of the priorities of the Office of the Provost, including advancing academic excellence, building community, and ensuring fiscal sustainability and operational excellence. University Hall 116 [email protected] 401-863-3413 Joel Revill Joel Revill Associate Provost for Special Projects In addition to his role as associate dean of the faculty, Joel holds a part-time appointment as associate provost for special projects working with schools, departments, institutes and centers on projects that involve faculty policies and data. [email protected] 401-863-9642 Associate Dean of the Faculty Thomas Roberts Thomas Roberts Associate Provost for Space The associate provost for academic space advises on planning and managing space and facilities-related projects in support of the University’s academic mission. [email protected] 401-863-3608 Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Christopher Rose Christopher Rose Associate Provost for STEM Initiatives The Associate Provost for STEM Initiatives provides leadership and strategic coordination of efforts to recruit and support faculty from historically underrepresented groups in STEM fields. [email protected] Professor of Engineering Jay Rowan Jay Rowan Chief of Staff to the Provost, Associate Provost of Strategy University Hall, Room 108 [email protected] 703-967-3478 Mary Wright Mary Wright Associate Provost for Teaching and Learning Mary directs the University-wide Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, which promotes and provides opportunities to support evidence-based teaching to create an inclusive environment where all learners can succeed. She also serves as professor of the practice in the Department of Sociology. [email protected] Associate Provost for Teaching and Learning, Director, Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat