Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) » Making a Report » Employee Responsibility Set Navigation title in component Making a Report Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Employee Responsibility Mandatory Reporting All university employees, except those specifically designated as confidential resources, must report to the Title IX Coordinator any incidents of possible sexual harassment, sex discrimination, or retaliation of which they are aware. Reports must be made within 24 hours. University employees who are responsible for reporting possible sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and retaliation include all faculty, administrators, staff, resident coordinators, resident advisors and peer educators. Ohio law requires that any person learning of a felony report the crime to the police. All university employees must report a felony of which they are aware to the University of Cincinnati Police Department (exceptions to this are employees of the Counseling Center and University Health Services). Questions regarding identifying felony behavior can be directed to the Office of General Counsel or the University of Cincinnati Police Department. Responding to Disclosures University of Cincinnati employees have a responsibility to share information about incidents involving sexual harassment, including sex/gender-based violence, dating or domestic violence and stalking with the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. Below are some suggested responses based on possible scenarios: "It's brave of you to talk about this, and I respect you reaching out for help. You should know before we talk more that I must report any sexual violence to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. However, I can also point you towards some confidential resources if you'd like." "I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I am a mandatory reporter and I want to let you know that there are a number of situations where I am required to report what you tell me to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. I am happy to talk to you, but if you'd like to first explore options with a confidential resource here are a few options." "I'm glad you want to talk to me about this and that you feel comfortable speaking with me about something that might be hard to discuss. I want to make sure that you understand my role here. I will do everything I can to protect your privacy, but depending on what you tell me I may need to inform another administrator at the university." Syllabus Language Faculty Senate Resolution Supporting the Addition of Information Regarding Title IX and Mental Health Services on Student Course Material "THEREFORE be it resolved that the University of Cincinnati Faculty Senate recommends that faculty include information about Title IX and Mental Health services on course syllabi or learning management system sites." (Approved by the Faculty Senate on May 12, 2016) Frequently Asked Questions Why are employees required to report? right arrow down arrow Our primary goal is to make sure that anyone who experiences sex or gender-based discrimination, including harassment or violence, has what they need to be safe and to continue to be successful here at UC. Making a report to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion means the reporting person will receive information about their rights, campus and community-based resources, and be informed about options, including medical care, criminal prosecution, university investigation, and support resources, such as free counseling. The person is not required to talk to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion, and typically the University will not proceed with a formal investigation process if the reporting person does not want to go forward. It is understood that issues covered under Title IX are some of the most underreported. Who is required to report? right arrow down arrow UC’s Title IX Grievance Procedure for Students and Third Parties says, in part: “All university employees, except those specifically designated as confidential resources (CAPS…Health Services,), must report to the Title IX Coordinator any incidents of possible sexual harassment, sex discrimination, or retaliation on campus of which they are aware. Reports must be made within 24 hours using the online reporting form or to the Title IX Coordinator or a Deputy. University employees who are responsible for reporting possible sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and retaliation include all faculty, administrators, staff, residence coordinators, and residence advisors.” Each college or administrative office may have other individuals, such as volunteer professors, interns, emeriti faculty, etc. who are not paid by the University but may have positions of leadership, supervision, or sustained contact with students and other community members. Those individuals should be trained to report as well, because they are just as likely as employees to be individuals that someone needing help could reasonably believe would be able to help them. How do I request a training about mandatory reporting for my unit or department? right arrow down arrow You can request training by contacting the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion or by filling out the training request form. What if I have questions about whether I have to report something? right arrow down arrow For questions about whether a disclosure must be reported, contact the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion. What if I need to report something outside of ordinary business hours? right arrow down arrow Incidents involving sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking may be reported to UC Police Department or your local law enforcement. To report to the Office of Gender Equity & Inclusion, you may complete the online reporting form, email ogei@uc.edu or leave a voice message at (513) 556-3349 at any time. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top