Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > About Us > Events Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events CUIMC Grand Rounds Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Events Search by keyword Categories - Any -AdmissionsAdvisingArchitectureArtsAthleticsAwardsBasic Health SciencesBusinessCareersClinical Health SciencesCollege of Dental MedicineCollege of Physicians and SurgeonsColumbia NursingCommencementCommunications and MediaComputer ScienceCore CurriculumCOVID-19DeadlineEarth InstituteEconomicsEducationEngineeringFinanceGlobal ProgramsGovernment and Public PolicyGraduate School of Arts and SciencesHealthcareHuman ResourcesHumanitiesInternational and Public AffairsJournalismLawLibrariesMailman School of Public HealthMusicNatural SciencesOrientationOtherPolitical ScienceReligionResearchReunionSchool of Social WorkSocial JusticeSocial SciencesSportsTeaching and LearningWorld Leaders Forum Date E.g., 06/01/2022 The Exposome Boot Camp Thursday, July 21, 2022 to Friday, July 22, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Research Education Mailman School of Public Health The Exposome Boot Camp: Measuring Exposures on an Omic Scale The Exposome Boot Camp is a two-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of concepts, techniques, and data analysis methods used in studies of the exposome. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Principles of exposomics Concept ideation and study design Laboratory methods and instrumentation platforms for analysis Data extraction and cleaning with emphasis on peaks and feature tables Pathway data analysis and identification databases Data visualization and network interpretation Study design advantages and pitfalls Emerging exposomic topics and laboratory platforms Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS This training is designed to accommodate investigators with varying experience levels in R. Knowing R basics is beneficial to maximize training from the boot camp, but is not necessary for you to strongly engage with training material. Data labs will be offered asynchronously from the live-stream training and are meant to accommodate both beginner and advanced data manipulation, with all material and additional resources available after the training. Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant is required to have a personal laptop. If you would like to participate in the hands-on data labs offered by the Boot Camp, you will need to have R downloaded and installed prior to the first day of the workshop as all lab sessions will be done on your personal laptop. R is available for free download and installation on Mac, PC, and Linux devices. The Boot Camp will provide lab tutorials with data sets in R, therefore we recommend participants have a basic understanding of this platform prior to attending the Boot Camp to get the most out of lab sessions. R knowledge is not required if you do not plan to participate in lab sessions. If you have not used this platform before, step through the tutorials outlined below so you have the basic skills needed for Boot Camp success. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.Exposome@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Single Cell Analysis Boot Camp Monday, July 25, 2022 to Tuesday, July 26, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Single Cell Analysis Boot Camp: Systems Biology Methods for Analysis of Single Cell RNA-Seq The Single Cell Analysis Boot Camp is a two-day intensive training of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to launch students on a path towards mastery of scRNASeq data analysis methods used in health studies. This two-day intensive boot camp starts with a fast-paced training session on single cell data collection and basic analysis in the first half-day, then continues with in-depth sessions on advanced methods for phenotyping single cell populations using systems-biology approaches. Led by a team who have invented several of the methods used in network biology and single-cell transcriptome analysis, we demonstrate how to use network models to convert gene expression profiles into protein activity profiles, and how to transfer knowledge between established bulk datasets and novel single-cell data. We expect that, during this hands-on workshop, participants will acquire enough knowledge to plan and perform scRNAseq analyses. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Gene Expression Analysis of scRNA data (pre-processing, quality control, filtering, normalization) Cluster Analysis Cell Type Identification Regulatory Network Analysis Master Regulator Analysis Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites/requirements to attend this training: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant must be familiar with R. Each participant must have a free, basic RStudio Cloud account prior to the first day of the workshop. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.scRNASeq@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Environmental Mixtures Workshop Thursday, July 28, 2022 to Friday, July 29, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Environmental Mixtures Workshop: Applications in Environmental Health Studies The Environmental Mixtures Workshop is a two-day intensive training of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of environmental mixtures concepts, techniques, and data analysis methods used in health studies. This two-day intensive workshop will provide a rigorous introduction to multiple different techniques to analyze exposure to mixtures in environmental health. Led by a team of world experts in environmental health, epidemiology and statistics, many of whom have developed their own methods to analyze exposure to mixtures, the workshop will integrate seminar lectures with hands-on computer lab sessions to put concepts into practice. Emphasis will be given to supervised and unsupervised methods. Since the choice of method depends on the research question at hand, the workshop will conclude with a panel discussion on when each method presented is appropriate for use and for which research questions.  By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Principal Component Analysis (PCA) Factor Analysis (FA) Clustering Variable Selection (Lasso, elastic net) Bayesian Kernel (BKMR) Weighted Quantile Sum Regression (WQS) Emerging mixtures topics and novel extensions Tree-based methods Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites to attend this workshop: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant must be familiar with R. Each participant is required to have a personal laptop/computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.Mixtures@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Parkinson's Disease CARE PARTNER Support Group Wednesday, August 3, 2022 5:30 PM to 6:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Meeting Categories Healthcare Support group for those caring for a loved one with Parkinson's disease. This support group meets monthly, and alternates between open discussion and guest speaker format. If you plan to attend, please notify Elizabeth Delaney, LCSW ahead of time at ead2179@cumc.columbia.edu or 212-305-5779. Elizabeth Delaney is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. Topic: Caregiver Support Group Join Zoom Meeting https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/j/97019091711?pwd=TWRFSHAyUCtVdU9qd21lK2l3UFBYUT09 Meeting ID: 970 1909 1711 Passcode: 491025 One tap mobile +16465588656,,97019091711# US (New York) +13126266799,,97019091711# US (Chicago) Dial by your location +1 646 558 8656 US (New York) +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) +1 669 900 9128 US (San Jose) Meeting ID: 970 1909 1711 Find your local number: https://columbiacuimc.zoom.us/u/adjD6lkl2f Microbiome Data Analytics Boot Camp Thursday, August 4, 2022 to Friday, August 5, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Microbiome Data Analytics Boot Camp: Planning, generating, and analyzing 16S rRNA gene sequencing surveys The Microbiome Data Analytics Boot Camp is a two-day intensive training of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of 16S rRNA gene sequencing surveys including planning, generating and analyzing sequencing datasets. This two-day intensive workshop will provide a rigorous introduction to the theory and methodology underlying the design, generation, and analysis of Amplicon Sequence Variant (ASV) based investigations of microbial communities. The workshop will introduce state-of-the-art techniques using the R language and environment. A team of leading experts in microbiome data analytics and statistics will offer a hands-on experience in learning how to implement these techniques by integrating publicly available data and R packages to explore and understand some of the pitfalls and information drawn from 16S rRNA data analysis. By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: The theoretical basis underpinning 16S rRNA investigations Methodologies for generating 16S rRNA sequence data 16S sequence data quality control Amplicon sequence variant inference Taxonomic annotation Biodiversity estimation Principal Component Analysis and PERMANOVA Taxon-covariate correlation and regression modeling Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are three prerequisites and requirements to attend this workshop: Each participant must have an introductory background in statistics. Each participant must be familiar with R and a basic UNIX command line interface. Each participant must have a laptop with either Chrome or Firefox installed (latest update). Additionally, participants need an SSH client (e.g., terminal for Mac or putty for Windows) installed on their machine prior to the first day of the workshop. SSH clients are available for free download and installation on Mac, PC, and Linux devices. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.Microbiome@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Mendelian Randomization Boot Camp Thursday, August 11, 2022 to Friday, August 12, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Research Mailman School of Public Health Mendelian Randomization Boot Camp: A Practical Guide to Study Design and Implementation The Mendelian Randomization Boot Camp is a two-day intensive combination of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of the concepts, techniques, packages, data sources, and data analysis methods needed to conduct Mendelian Randomization studies. This two-day intensive boot camp integrates motivation for Mendelian randomization studies, statistical concepts, genetic considerations, and practical examples to design, implement and interpret a Mendelian randomization analysis. Led by a scientist with several award winning papers on Mendelian randomization combined with extensive expertise in epidemiology, the workshop will integrate seminar lectures with hands-on computer sessions to put concepts into practice. Emphasis will be given to leveraging existing publicly available resources (data, tools and packages) as well as indicating the scope for new studies. The afternoon lab sessions will provide an opportunity to work hands-on with real data. Participants will learn and practice all the steps required for a successful Mendelian randomization analysis using publicly available data, including identifying suitable data sources, data extraction, data alignment, assumption checking and sensitivity analysis. By the end of this Mendelian Randomization training, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Principles of Mendelian Randomization Implementation options Suitable publicly available data sources Data interpretation and handling Data analysis Sensitivity analysis Study design advantages and pitfalls Emerging Mendelian randomization techniques Use of MR-Base Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS Each participant is required have a working laptop or tablet with video and audio capabilities, and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. The Boot Camp will use data sets in R/RStudio using the RStudio Cloud platform, therefore it is required that each participant has previous experience using R.  If you have any specific questions about R and R studio in the context of the Mendelian Randomization Boot Camp, please email us. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.SPH.MR@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Environmental Justice Boot Camp Monday, August 15, 2022 to Tuesday, August 16, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Environmental Justice Boot Camp: Theory and Methods to Study Environmental Health Disparities The Environmental Justice Boot Camp is a two-day intensive course featuring seminars and applied analytical sessions on key concepts, exposure assessment techniques, epidemiologic methods, community engagement and health policy applications, and statistical analytic approaches for conducting effective and solution-driven environmental justice research. This two-day boot camp will provide environmental health scientists with training in environmental justice research. The boot camp’s multi-disciplinary approach will cover the steps involved in conducting informed, effective, and solution-driven environmental justice and health disparities research. Our team consists of scientists with over 30 years of combined research in the fields of environmental health, sociology, epidemiology, health policy, community engagement, and biostatistics. Lectures will cover key concepts, frameworks, and methods for conducting environmental justice research. We will then build on this knowledge with hands-on learning experiences from case studies that allow participants to apply real-world datasets to address key research questions in environmental health and health disparities using exposure assessment techniques, epidemiologic methods, and analytic approaches, such as interaction and mediation.  By the end of the workshop, participants will be familiar with the following topics: Key concepts of environmental justice and health disparities Epidemiologic conceptual framework Study design advantages and challenges Data collection, questionnaire design, and measurement error Data analysis: basics of interaction and mediation Emerging topics and methods in environmental justice research Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS There are two prerequisites and requirements to attend this training: Basic familiarity with R is recommended to get the most out of the Boot Camp. If you have not used this platform before or need a refresher, step through the tutorials outlined below so you have the basic skills needed for Boot Camp success. Each participant is required to have a personal laptop/computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at ColumbiaSHARP.EJ@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. ISSO Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation Tuesday, August 16, 2022 11:00 AM to 12:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Webinar Categories Other Orientation This ISSO sponsored event is for Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers at Columbia University. You are invited to our Newly Arrived J-1 Faculty and Researchers Orientation. These sessions are for those who have recently arrived. The orientation covers an overview of this visa status. ISSO strongly recommends you attend. Please have your DS-2019 and passport available. Register here. Causal Mediation Analysis Training Wednesday, August 17, 2022 to Friday, August 19, 2022 All day Venue Online Online Categories Education Mailman School of Public Health Research Causal Mediation Analysis Training: Methods and Applications Using Health Data The Causal Mediation Analysis Training is a 3-day intensive boot camp of seminars and hands-on analytical sessions to provide an overview of concepts and data analysis methods used to investigate mediating mechanisms. This three-day intensive course will cover some of the recent developments in causal mediation analysis and provide practical tools to implement these techniques and assess the mechanisms and pathways by which causal effects operate. Led by a team of experts in causal mediation techniques at Columbia University, this course will integrate lectures and discussion with hands-on computer lab sessions using R. The course will cover the relationship between traditional methods for mediation in environmental health, epidemiology, and the social sciences and new methods in causal inference using a wide variety of examples to illustrate the techniques and approaches. We will discuss 1) when the standard approaches to mediation analysis are valid for dichotomous, and continuous, outcomes, 2) alternative mediation analysis techniques when the standard approaches will not work, using ideas from causal inference and natural direct and indirect effects 3) the no-unmeasured confounding assumptions needed to identify these effects, and 4) how regression approaches for mediation analysis can be extended in the presence of multiple mediators. By the end of the workshop, participants will be able to: Understand when traditional methods for mediation fail Articulate concepts about mediation under the counterfactual framework and assumptions for identification Formulate and apply regression approaches for mediation for single and multiple mediators Develop facility with the use of software for mediation and interpretation of software output Investigators at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. PREREQUISITES AND REQUIREMENTS Each participant must be familiar with linear and logistic regression. Each participant must have experience with programming in R.  Although the instructors will provide an overview of the fundamentals of causal inference (potential outcomes, directed acyclic graphs, and marginal structural models), we invite the participants to read chapters 1-7, 11, and 12 of Hernán MA, Robins JM (2020). Causal Inference: What If. Boca Raton: Chapman & Hall/CRC (free). Each participant is required to have a personal computer and a free, basic RStudio Cloud account. All lab sessions will be done using RStudio Cloud. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Register or view more information. Subscribe for updates. Email us at Columbia.CMA@gmail.com. Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. BME Seminar: Tyrone Porter, Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin Friday, September 16, 2022 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM Venue Northwest Corner Building, 550 W. 120 St., New York, NY 10027 501 Categories Engineering Research Healthcare POSTPONED UNTIL FALL 2022 - DATE TBD We will welcome Prof. Tyrone Porter from The University of Texas at Austin as he presents, "Biomedical applications for ultrasound-triggered exploding nanodroplets." ABOUT THE SEMINAR Biomedical applications for ultrasound-triggered exploding nanodroplets Ultrasound can be used to noninvasively vary the pressure within tissue by several atmospheres. The design of particles that respond specifically to these pressure variations is an active area of research within biomedical ultrasound. In this talk, I will discuss the development and utility of pressure-sensitive nanoemulsions that can be vaporized with high amplitude acoustic pulses. The bubbles produced by vaporization can be driven to collapse, radiating broadband emissions that are rapidly absorbed by surrounding tissues and generating stresses sufficient for transient permeabilization of cells. In one project, we demonstrate the vaporizable nanoemulsions can be used to facilitate transport of biomolecules into cells efficiently and with minimal cell death. In a second project, we show that the vaporizable nanoemulsions can be used to enhance ultrasound-mediated tumor ablation. Finally, new innovations for localized therapy based upon the current research will be discussed. ABOUT THE SPEAKER Tyrone Porter, Ph.D., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Donald J. Douglass Centennial Professorship in Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin Dr. Tyrone Porter is Professor of Biomedical Engineering and holder of the Donald J. Douglass Centennial Professorship in Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin. After receiving a Ph.D. in Bioengineering at the University of Washington and a postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Cincinnati, Dr. Porter started his academic career at Boston University in 2006. Over the course of his career, Dr. Porter has made significant contributions to the use of ultrasound for therapeutic applications. For these contributions, he was elected a Fellow of the ASA in 2017 and a Fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE) in 2021. In addition to advancing biomedical ultrasound as a field, Dr. Porter actively works to broaden representation and participation in the biomedical sciences. ABOUT THE BME SEMINAR SERIES The Department of Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University is proud to host an annual weekly seminar series on the latest developments and research in Biomedical Engineering. The weekly series takes place on Friday mornings at 11:00AM Eastern and includes a variety of renowned academics from top universities to talk about their specific research and experience. This is a hybrid event. Pages first previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top