Skip to main content University of Southern California Office of the President Primary Menu Home Biography From the President Community Messages Speeches Conversations Contact Presidential Working Groups Racial Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (REDI) Presidential Working Group on Sustainability in Education, Research, and Operations Student-Athlete Experience Task Force Department of Public Safety Community Advisory Board (CAB) Interfraternity Council Culture, Prevention, and Accountability MenuAn icon that consists of three parallel horizontal lines suggestive of a list. SearchAn icon of a magnifying glass. Search for: CloseAn icon of a letter X.Close Search Home Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president Carol L. Folt University of Southern California’s 12th president “We are experiencing our own Galileo moment. We’re seeing problems as opportunities, exercising muscles we didn’t know we had, tapping into wells of expertise and knowledge–and compassion–we didn’t know were so deep.”– Carol L. Folt, from her State of the University address A Message from the President As we head into the summer, I wanted to share some highlights from a monumental year at USC. Have a wonderful summer and Fight On! Carol L. Folt, President News President Folt encourages business sustainability class to ‘engage people’s hearts’ The president — a biologist — notes that diverse perspectives are key to creating a more sustainable future, whether students come from backgrounds in business, engineering or the arts. Read more USC’s unofficial school color: Green Progress in Earth-friendly practices under President Carol L. Folt is evident on the university’s campuses. President Folt opened Earth Week with her most impactful move yet — transitioning USC from non-biodegradable plastic beverage bottles. Read more Signaling a cultural shift, President Folt dedicates landmark building to alum Joseph Medicine Crow The president honors the Native American author, historian and war hero, whose legacy of fostering connections among cultures aligns with the purpose of the Center for International and Public Affairs. Read more Quest for honorary degrees ends as President Folt confers diplomas upon Nisei students In a historic act of atonement, families from around the world received degrees in the names of Japanese American students who were forced into detention in 1942. Read more Instagram Follow us @presidentfolt presidentfolt View May 25 Open presidentfolt View May 19 Open presidentfolt View May 17 Open presidentfolt View May 15 Open USC Office of the President Los Angeles, CA 90089-0012 (213) 740-2111 president@usc.edu University of Southern CaliforniaContent managed by USC Communications Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Instagram InstagramThe logo for the social media platform Instagram. Twitter TwitterThe logo for the social media platform Twitter.