Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day Home » Centers & Initiatives » Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics » About Cecil B. Day Menu Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Cecil B. Day was the founder and chairman of the board of Days Inns of America, Inc., which is now part of the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts. While traveling on a vacation with his family, he saw a need for lodging accommodations for middle-class Americans traveling on a limited budget. After he returned to Atlanta, he designed his first 60-unit motel that combined budget and luxury features, including swimming pools and playgrounds for children. The plans were completed in the summer of 1969 and construction began on the first Days Inn in February 1970. His prior experience and success in the construction industry convinced him that standardization of construction and operations would generate substantial savings, which subsequently would be passed on to the motel guest through low room rates. The Days Inns value-oriented concept became a reality in June 1970 with the opening of the first Days Inn in Tybee Island, Georgia. This prototype motel was later redesigned to encompass lodging, gasoline, restaurant and gift shop facilities to meet all the needs of the traveling public. In addition, most properties provided guests with a swimming pool and a children's playground. The Days Inns concept caught on quickly. The chain was soon billed as the fastest growing in the world as it began to double in size every six months. By 1973, the American Hotel and Motel Association recognized Days Inns as one of the top 25 lodging chains in the United States and by 1978, Days Inns was the sixth-largest motel chain in the United States. The success of the Days Inns concept was based on the simplicity of Cecil Day's own life. Born the son of Lon L. Day, Sr., a Southern Baptist minister, in Brooklet, Georgia, on Dec. 10, 1934, he grew up in Savannah and Macon, graduating from Macon's Lanier High School in 1952. Day's early years were marked by the hardships of the depression and his father's illness and death when Cecil was fifteen years old. As a high school student, he worked after school in his uncle's real estate office, which helped lay the foundation for his future career. He enrolled at Mercer University in Macon, Georgia, in 1952 and continued to work full time. While there, he met and married Marian Uldine (Deen) Smith of Macon. In 1953, he interrupted his education to serve two years in the United States Marine Corps. In the fall of 1955, he entered the Georgia Institute of Technology. While at Tech, he took 11 consecutive full-time quarters of academic courses and worked full time for Moncrief Heating and Air Conditioning Company. He also served as president of the Society for the Advancement of Management at Georgia Tech. Day graduated from Georgia Tech in 1958. As a busy entrepreneur, and a father of five children, (C. Burke, Kathleen [Kathie], Clinton M., C. Peyton, and C. Parke), Day found time to offer service to civic business, religious and educational organizations. He was a member of the Young President's Organization and The Conference Board. He was a Trustee of Tift College in Forsyth, Georgia, and a Trustee of Mercer University in Atlanta. He served on the National Advisory Board of the Georgia Institute of Technology, the Board of Directors of the American Bible Society, and the Board of Directors for First Georgia Bank. He was also vice chairman of the Board of Directors for Haggai Institute (which later named its Singapore Campus in his honor). Day was a charter member of the Dunwoody Baptist Church and a member of the Board of Deacons, serving two terms as chairman. Hard work, sound academic preparation, practical application of creative ideas, and the practice of Christian ethics in business were reflected in Day's original concept of Days Inns of America, Inc. He was chairman of the Board of Directors for Days Inns of America, Inc. and Cecil B. Day Companies, Inc. His dynamic leadership and entrepreneurial spirit created a unique concept in the lodging industry. The life of Cecil Day is a noble example of using his personal beliefs and business abilities to express the love and hope of his faith. Since his death in 1978 at the age of 44, his widow, Deen Day Sanders, has supported numerous worthwhile causes via the Cecil B. Day Foundation and Cecil B. Day Investment Company and was inspired to endow the Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics because of her late husband's strong belief in ethical business behavior. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures