Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact Who We Are Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Our Expertise COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Our Deliverables Targeted Research Reports Predictive Analytics Models Training Programs & Toolkits Survey Design, Dissemination, and Analysis Program Evaluation Our Case Studies Otsuka Pharmaceuticals Novo Nordisk Merck: Savings Mothers, Giving Life Claritin/Bayer Hospital Decision-Making Simulation Get In Touch Latest News Search You are here Home Corporate Partnerships Our Expertise Healthy Aging Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Healthy Aging Dramatic growth in the aging population is causing significant opportunities and challenges for the corporate sector across a number of industries. Business leaders in healthcare, insurance, technology, transportation, food and apparel are searching for innovative approaches to support healthy aging, and to create solutions to address the specific health concerns facing the elderly and their caregivers. Columbia Mailman is home to a university-wide center named for aging policy pioneer Robert N. Butler, MD. Columbia experts can help translate the latest research findings into new technologies, programs, products and solutions. We can also assess the cost-effectiveness of new interventions, evaluate the potential health impact of new programs and products, and provide analytics to generate better insights on the aging population and their needs. Key Faculty Linda P. Fried, MD, MPH, dean of Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health and director of the Robert N. Butler Columbia Aging Center, is a leader in the fields of epidemiology and geriatric medicine. She has dedicated her career to the science of healthy aging and to creating a health span that matches our increased life expectancy, with a focus on prevention of frailty, disability, and cardiovascular disease. She is the co-founder of Experience Corps, a community-based senior volunteer program. In 2014, she was named among the top one percent “most influential scientific minds of the decade” by Thomson-Reuters. Daniel Belsky, PhD, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, has research projects focussed on translating aging biology to inform public health strategies for aging populations, including quantification of biological aging for randomized trials of geroprotective interventions and population surveillance; genetic and environmental risk factors for accelerated aging; how social determinants of health impact biological aging. John W. Rowe, MD, Julius B. Richmond Professor of Health Policy and Aging, is president of the IAGG as well as director of the Aging Society Network. His work focuses on how well countries and states are adapting to the demographic transformation, with special attention to several major domains: productivity and engagement; equity; wellbeing; security and cohesion between generations. Kavita Sivaramakrishnan, PhD, Associate Professor, Sociomedical Sciences, is a social historian whose research interests include global health and aging, with a particular focus on low and middle income countries in South Asia, China and Africa. Adina Zeki Al Hazzouri, PhD, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, explores how exposures from across the life course influence health and aging, with a focus on social determinants of health and health disparities; why socioeconomically disadvantaged or minority groups experience premature aging; Understanding methodological challenges in aging research. Sign up for Transmission Receive updates about research and news from Columbia Mailman School of Public Health via our weekly newsletter. Subscribe Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers