Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Related Links FAQs Disbursement of Aid Payment and Deferment Plans Scholarships and Financial Aid Forms Maintaining Eligibility Policy Costs & Financial Aid Virtual Drop-In Advising Now Available *Monday and Friday | 2 – 4:30 p.m. *Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday | 9 – 11 a.m. and 2 – 4:30 p.m. Queue up for virtual advising by logging into your Navigate account. Learn more about virtual drop-in advising> Want to schedule an appointment instead? Read our Virtual Appointment Guide. COVID-19 Updates Read more > The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is committed to assisting UH students through the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Students are encouraged to email sfa@central. uh.edu, call 713-743-1010 (option 5), reach out for virtual drop-in advising, schedule a virtual appointment through Navigate, or see us in person at the Welcome Center. Spring 2022 Hours: In-person services: Monday to Thursday | 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday | 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Call Center: Monday to Thursday | 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday | 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Virtual advising by appointment: Monday to Thursday | 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Friday | 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Students impacted by the disruption of campus operations due to Coronavirus may apply for funding from the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund. Students experiencing longer-term impact from COVID-19 can request a Financial Reconsideration Appeal by contacting SFA by email or phone. Have your UH ID ready to provide your ID number when contacting SFA. Be sure you have completed all items on your To Do List in your myUH portal. For information on how to upload requested documents to your To Do List items, please visit uh.edu/sfaupload. About Costs & Financial Aid Concerned about paying for your education at the University of Houston? Think of it as an investment in your future. Whether you're an undergraduate or a graduate student, a UH education will pay for itself many times over in higher earnings and expanded opportunities throughout your life. What’s more, we award a wide range of scholarships, fellowships and other financial aid to graduate and undergraduate students alike. With our generous financial assistance packages, some UH students find that their actual cost is lower than they had originally expected. Trying to determine your tuition and fee bill for future semesters? Take a look at the estimated Tuition Calculator for estimates based on hours of enrollment and major. We invite you to explore the financial information provided here. We look forward to helping you invest in your future! Please contact the Financial Aid office for your federal and state aid processing, and please contact Student Business Services for payment, fee bill calculation, refund, deferment and book loan processing. Updates Check your myUH To-Do List! Some students will need to complete items listed in their myUH self-service account To-Do list to determine complete eligibility and to receive their aid. If you have just begun the financial aid process and have to wait for your documents to complete processing, please be sure to choose an online payment deferment plan through the Office of Student Business Services — this will help lock in your enrollment and allow additional time for processing. Disbursement: As long as you meet the enrollment and eligibility requirements, your loans will start disbursing the first week of classes, and your grants will disburse after the 13 th class day for most students. For more detailed information about aid disbursement, please visit our disbursement site. Did you accept Federal Direct Loan awards? Make sure that you have completed all your additional steps, enrolled in half-time and have completed the Master Promissory Note (MPN) and Entrance Counseling at StudentAid.gov. Enrollment adjustments can affect your aid! If you will not be enrolled as a full-time student, your award disbursements may be delayed to adjust any potential over- award of financial aid. Need more funds to cover additional expenses like housing? There are additional loan options available like the Federal PLUS Loan or alternative/private loans you can explore. Experienced income changes? If you have experienced a change in income due to job loss, medical needs, death of parent or spouse or any other catastrophic event, please come and speak with an advisor at the Welcome Center regarding a Financial Reconsideration Appeal. Click here for our hours. Update your email address. Please be sure to keep your email address current in your myUH self-service account so that you receive award notifications and additional information requests in a timely fashion! Please visit our award determination and maintaining eligibility websites. For more information on the disbursement process, please visit our Financial Aid FAQ page. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies