Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries RAVE Temple Guardian App You are here Home Life at Temple Safety RAVE Temple Guardian App Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library As part of our newest safety implementations, Temple has launched the RAVE Temple Guardian, a one-touch personal safety app. All students, faculty and staff members can use this mobile tool to connect directly with Temple University Police. The app is available at our U.S. campuses. Through the free app, you can request a virtual or physical police escort and report suspicious activity. In order to use the Temple Guardian service, users must first download the application to their mobile device. If you have any questions regarding the use of the app, contact Information Technology Services. Read more about how to use the app and watch this video. Contents Setting Up the AppVirtual Safety WalkChat with University PoliceCall University PoliceFAQ Setting Up the App Before setting up the Temple Guardian app, verify that Temple has your phone on file. Log in to TUportal. Click “Manage My Account” in the upper-right portion of the screen. Click “Manage Addresses and Phones.” Make sure your phone number is listed with a Phone Type of Mobile—Personal or Mobile—Work. If not, click “Add phone” and follow the prompts to add it. Then, follow the steps below. Search “Rave Guardian” in the Apple App Store for iPhones or Google Play Store for Android phones. Once downloaded, Temple Guardian will also be integrated within TUmobile. Register using your Temple AccessNet username. Note that email aliases cannot be used when registering for the app. Once registered, you can access new key campus safety features, such as choosing to chat with Temple Police, call Temple Police, call 911 or start a virtual safe walk. In the app, users can also update emergency contacts, vehicle information and choose to share their profile directly with 911. If you need help using the Temple Guardian app, please contact the Help Desk for assistance. Virtual Safety Walk In the app, users can choose to set a “guardian,” who can be a member of their friends or family, or a member of the Temple University Police Department. To access the virtual safe walk feature, users must first allow Temple Guardian to access their location. Then, users can set a fixed time for their departure and arrival, and their guardians are notified when they reach their destination. Chat with Temple University Police You can directly connect with Temple Police and discreetly report suspicious activity. To initiate a chat with Temple University Police, on the Temple Guardian main screen, tap “Chat with Police,” and then tap “Chat with TU Police.” To report the tip anonymously, tap the slider next to “Go Anonymous.” The screen will go dark. Call Temple University Police or 911 Quickly call the Temple University Police or 911 through a click of a button. If the situation is unsafe for you to speak, you can also send a text message and a picture. For maximum protection, make sure “share my location with Safety Official during this call” is checked. It is best to call the Temple University Police only if you are within the Main Campus patrol area or Health Sciences Center. FAQ Who can use the Temple Guardian app? The app can be used by all Temple students, faculty and staff at our U.S. campuses. The app requires a current temple.edu email address. How will my guardians know if I arrived safely at my destination? By deactivating your timer, your virtual escorts or “guardians” will receive a text message that you ended your timer session. What happens if I let my timer expire? If your timer expires, your friends and family or Temple University Police (whoever you designated as a guardian) will be notified that they should check on you. What if I receive a reminder before my timer expires? If you enabled push notifications when setting up the app, you will receive a reminder that your timer session will expire soon. You can then add time or deactivate the timer. Will Temple University Police be notified each time I set up a virtual safe walk? No. The police will only be notified if you select the Official Guardian option and allow your timer to expire rather than deactivate it when you arrive at your destination. Can Temple University Police monitor my whereabouts whenever they want? No. The app places you in control. Temple Police can only access your location if you select them as a guardian and you allow your timer to expire. You also can decide whether to allow the police to access your location when initiating a call or chat. Should I call Temple University Police or 911 in an emergency? It is best to call the Temple Police only if you are within the Main Campus patrol area or HSC campus. You can call 911 from any location. Go back to Life at TempleMore in Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.