Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards Presentations The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Program InformationPh.D Graduates Courses & Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Memphis Graduate Seminar Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Graduate Graduate Program & Resources In addition to our graduate courses each semester, the department has a regular colloquium series, runs many seminars and often hosts conferences. The department provides a friendly environment with a strong interaction between graduate students and faculty. All of the faculty have active research programs, many with international visibility. Some have been recipients of prestigious awards of major mathematical societies. Many faculty have been awarded federal research grants, and some have been named as Fellows of major scientific societies. The high level of research activity of our faculty provides many opportunities for graduate students. The Department faculty have research interests including analysis, applied mathematics, combinatorics, dynamical systems, graph theory, ergodic theory, partial differential equations and applied statistics. Mathematics graduate students can go on to do advanced work in any of the fields represented by the Department's faculty. With an active research program, the Department of Mathematics has several weekly seminars in core areas of pure and applied mathematics, colloquium series and annual conferences. The Master's and Ph.D. programs provide courses in various areas of mathematics. Ph.D. students then write a dissertation featuring original research under the direction of one of the Department's faculty. The Master's program normally takes two years to complete, while the Ph.D. usually requires five years. In addition to course requirements, graduate students have opportunities to participate in seminars, research conferences, and summer enrichment programs. See the Awards page for a list of recent awards received by our graduate students. The Graduate Program is overseen by the graduate programs coordinators: Bentuo Zheng (Mathematics), and Lih-Yuan Deng (Statistics), with the assistance of Vickie Middleton. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.