Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Our Faculty Researchers and educators at UCF transform lives, improve communities and advance society. Their research and expertise pave the way for academic innovation and inclusive excellence. Skip to Section Cutting-edge Research Awards & Accolades Interdisciplinary Clusters Invest Faculty Resources News World-Renowned Faculty Bright minds are solving the world’s greatest problems right here at UCF. It’s one of the reasons we’re positioned to become the world’s leading public metropolitan university. To achieve this vision, we continuously work to bring together thinkers, doers and creators who deliver high-quality education and leading-industry research that transforms lives. The impact of our innovative faculty research and teaching excellence extends far beyond our walls, unleashing a ripple effect that benefits our region, nation and world. From the interesting and heartwarming to the ground-breaking and life-changing, our research initiatives are helping change course for the future. Building Armies of Cancer-killing Cells Providing Aid to Coral Reef Restoration Flying at Speeds up to Mach 17 Alicja Copik, PhD Associate Professor of Medicine Associate Professor of Medicine Alicja Copik and her team developed a way to stimulate and strengthen natural cancer-killing cells as a means of cancer treatment. In July 2020, the nanoparticle technology was licensed to Sanofi — a French pharmaceutical giant — in hopes of finding new blood-cancer treatments. Learn about the innovative treatment John Fauth, PhD Associate Professor of Biology UCF engineering and biology researchers teamed up to test how well staghorn coral skeletons withstand the forces of nature and humans, such as impacts from hurricanes and divers. The findings help inform efforts to successfully transplant nursery-reared coral into the wild. Explore our restoration efforts Kareem Ahmed, PhD Associate Professor of Engineering UCF researchers are building on their technology that could pave the way for hypersonic flight. Associate Professor Kareem Ahmed and his team’s experimental engine funnels a mixture of fuel and air at hypersonic speeds toward a perfectly angled ramp. The resulting combustion is extra efficient and creates a shock wave that is essentially frozen in place for a record-breaking three seconds, allowing its energy to be harnessed for unprecedented propulsion. Find out more about the technology Recent UCF Faculty Awards At UCF, we are proud of our award-winning faculty. Many are recognized leaders in their disciplines — receiving awards from professional societies, foundations and other organizations. It demonstrates the impact that they have both inside and outside of the classroom. Here are just several of the most recent faculty awards. National Science Foundation CAREER Awards Salvador Almagro-Moreno, PhD Tracking Down Bacteria That Go Rogue Samik Bhattacharya, PhD Sleek Manta Rays Inspire Engineer Yanjie Fu, PhD Teaching Artificial Intelligence Street Smarts Lorraine Leon, PhD Tapping into Molecule Builders to Design New Materials Robert Steward Jr., PhD Dissecting Cell Mechanics to Understand Disease Innovation and Impact in Teaching and Research Humberto Campins, PhD UCF Physics Professor Named Jefferson Science Fellow Kelly A. Miller, DMA FMEA’s College Music Educator of the Year Ali Gordon, PhD Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Laurene Tetard, PhD Awarded $50k to help mitigate animal-borne diseases Greg Welch, PhD Named to the National Academy of Inventors Healthcare Simulation Educator of the Year Mindi Anderson, PhD Healthcare Simulation Program Director, Simulation Research Coordinator, Professor Professor Mindi Anderson, inaugural director of UCF’s Healthcare Simulation graduate program in the College of Nursing, was named 2020 Educator of the Year by the International Society for Simulation in Healthcare. Learn more about Anderson’s accomplishments Recognized for Inspiring Academic Excellence National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Member Professor Peter Delfyett, PhD received one of the highest honors bestowed on scientists and engineers: Becoming an NAE member. The first current UCF faculty member to be inducted into the NAE, Delfyett continues to receive national recognition for his work in optics and photonics. Reach for the Stars Honorees UCF faculty members were recognized for their outstanding research and creative activity, which has had national and international impact. From space to sea, these faculty have tackled huge problems and conducted research that betters society. 2021 Pegasus Professors The university’s highest faculty honor is awarded to professors for their well-established careers at UCF, with national and international recognition for their impact on their area of expertise. They leave a lasting impact on students, their colleagues and our world. Diversity Drives Innovation Our university benefits from a diverse faculty. With more than 1,900 faculty representing 36 countries, UCF offers an inclusive environment for all. And while we all come from diverse backgrounds, we share a common goal — to empower and prepare students for the future of work and lifelong careers. We believe innovation comes from the meeting of diverse viewpoints. It transforms how we teach, learn and engage — all while staying committed to a constant pursuit of academic, inclusive and operational excellence. Our faculty are innovative researchers, global thought leaders, analytical thinkers and renowned scholars. And together, we will continue to drive change and reach for the stars. 1,906+ Faculty, including full time, part time and visiting $211M Research funding received in grants, gifts and sponsored awards 40.7% Faculty tenured. An additional 16.8% are on a tenure-earning track 82% Faculty have doctoral degrees Research in 60 Seconds Faculty and student researchers are solving many of today’s greatest challenges. And now, we’re sharing our knowledge with the world. The “Research in 60 Seconds” series offers a quick glimpse into some of the latest innovative work that’s transforming the future today. Explore Research in 60 Seconds Tell Us About Your Research × UCF Podcast: Faculty Research Has a Global Impact Produced by UCF, the Knights Do That podcast features students, faculty, staff and alumni who continue to push the needle forward as researchers, innovators, entrepreneurs and creators making an impact on the world. Subscribe to keep up with Knights doing incredible things. Join the conversation on social media using #KnightsDoThat. Subscribe Featured Episodes The Future of Space Exploration Nov. 29, 2021 Phil Metzger ’00MS’05PhD, a planetary scientist with nearly 30 years of experience at NASA, shares stories from working on the space shuttle missions, his controversial research on whether Pluto is a planet and the future of space exploration. Expertise on Infectious Diseases and Vaccines Nov. 15, 2021 Elena Cyrus, an infectious disease epidemiologist at UCF’s College of Medicine, discusses her expertise and research in infectious diseases, public health and COVID-19 vaccines. Fostering Inclusion through Arts and LGBTQ+ History Oct. 18, 2021 Martha Brenckle, a writing and rhetoric professor, shares her expertise and love for writing, involvement within the Orlando arts community, role as treasurer for the LGBTQ+ History Museum of Central Florida and more. Faculty Research Clusters By leveraging our existing strengths, the faculty cluster initiative encourages interdisciplinary approaches to the world’s most pressing challenges. Each cross-disciplinary team focuses on solving scientific and societal challenges through teaching and research. The strength of this initiative comes from faculty depth, the ability to translate depth across disciplines and the collaboration among deans, directors, chairs and faculty members in every college across campus. Explore UCF’s 9 Interdisciplinary Research Initiatives: Biionix (Prosthetic Interfaces) Cyber Security and Privacy Disability, Aging and Technology Genomics and Bioinformatics Learning Sciences Renewable Energy Conversion and Chemical Transformations Renewable Energy Systems Sustainable Coastal Systems Violence Against Women A Leader in Teaching Innovation For more than 25 years, UCF has been at the forefront of digital learning. Our faculty continuously find ways to incorporate technology in a meaningful way. From building inclusive courses to designing for accessibility, faculty set students on the path to success. And as online instruction becomes increasingly important in higher education institutions, we will continue to adapt to the needs of students. Our faculty’s commitment to leading the way in innovative education technology has helped UCF gain national recognition for online learning. The Chronicle for Higher Education says, “The University of Central Florida provides perhaps the best example of an institution that has done this. Its Digital Learning Division manages not just the UCF Online program but also a broad-based faculty-development program supporting educational-technology use in online, remote, hybrid, and face-to-face courses.” 1,800+Faculty have completed professional development for online teaching 22Awards from the Sloan Consortium #14Best Online Bachelor’s Programs Dedicated to Faculty Success At UCF, we believe in the power of teamwork. From teaching technologies and professional development to research mentoring and work-life balance, UCF faculty are supported across campus through a variety of offices and centers aimed to help them achieve more. Access to resources, partnerships and industry all play a significant role in strengthening faculty success in the classroom, research lab and beyond. Faculty Excellence Supports faculty with professional development tools and resources to succeed in their career. From workshops to promotion/tenure guidance to faculty awards, we’re here to help faculty at every step. Office of Research A team of experts to assist faculty with research activity. The office has the tools, resources and support needed to help the research community throughout the lifecycle of a sponsored award. Faculty Center for Teaching & Learning Assists with teaching and development needs to innovate the classroom. FCTL also offers different faculty support groups, a writing club and development conferences. UCF Libraries Access to thousands of electronic full-text journals and documents on a diverse range of subjects. Libraries also offer faculty support with subject and campus librarians to find exactly what they need for the lab or classroom. Center for Distributed Learning Access to thousands of electronic full-text journals and documents on a diverse range of subjects. Libraries also offer faculty support with subject and campus librarians to find exactly what they need for the lab or classroom. Office of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Facilitates workshops and various development programs for faculty, such as the Leadership Empowerment Program and a session on diversity and curriculum transformation. Invest in Research & Educators Contribute to a healthier and more vibrant society. UCF faculty members help UCF expand its program offerings and adapt to the new fields of study and career paths that are emerging every day. Give Now Faculty News Check out more faculty stories Research When Hurricanes Strike, Social Media Can Save Lives A UCF Study finds social media can be a powerful tool for cities to communicate and to collect information to deploy emergency resources where needed… Health & Medicine Survivor Link National Training Program Launches at UCF The program will support nine social work students, developing their ability to respond to domestic violence. Health & Medicine UCF Developing Scam Screener for the Elderly A research team is creating tools to help doctors screen older adults who may be at a higher risk for getting scammed. UCF RESTORES Helps Veterans Executive director of UCF RESTORES shares her expertise in innovative PTSD treatments, her work with UCF RESTORES, and how we can better acknowledge and support veterans. Listen to the podcast Teaching and Research Opportunities Located in Orlando, Florida, UCF and its 13,000 faculty and staff members create life-changing opportunities for more than 68,000 students on campus and online. UCF offers a variety of positions for academic leaders, talented professionals and passionate team players who share our goal of creating a diverse and inclusive environment fueled by innovation and partnerships. What really attracted me is that UCF is a vibrant place that fosters innovation, partnerships and unique initiatives centered in student and faculty success.” Carolina Cruz-Neira, Agere Chair Professor Explore Faculty Jobs at UCF What really attracted me is that UCF is a vibrant place that fosters innovation, partnerships and unique initiatives centered in student and faculty success.” Carolina Cruz-Neira, Agere Chair Professor Thirteen colleges. Unlimited possibilities. At UCF, we offer an array of academic options for just about every interest. Check out our 230+ degree programs, award-winning faculty and groundbreaking research. You’ll quickly discover all there is to experience and get inspired by at one of the nation’s largest universities. Arts and Humanities Business Burnett Honors Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Rosen College of Hospitality Management Sciences Graduate Studies Undergraduate Studies University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida