Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation News Funding Opportunities Funding Opportunities This page contains information on funding for grants and internal awards, as well as for travel and course development. Please find more details about the following Funding Opportunities for faculty below. OVPR also maintains a searchable database of limited submission opportunities. Advance Clinical Translational Research (Advance-CTR) The mission of Advance-CTR is to support clinical and translational researchers in Rhode Island through funding, research resources and services, and professional development opportunities in order to fuel discoveries that improve overall health in the state. Advance-CTR is a statewide collaboration that is equal partners with Brown University, Care New England, Lifespan, The Providence VA Medical Center, The Rhode Island Quality Institute, and The University of Rhode Island. Advance-CTR was established after receiving a five-year Institutional Development Award for Clinical and Translational Research (IDeA-CTR) from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS). Advance-CTR supports researchers in the state through its three Service Cores and two Award Cores. You may request resarch support services such as biomedical informatics, biostatistical consulting and research design or clinical reasearch through the request for research services form. CTR has a number of ongoing professional development opportunities such as weekly drop-in sessions for biostatistics, epidemiology, and research design, a Monthly Seminar Seriesas well as REDCap classes and workshops. The best way for faculty to find out about these opportunities and sign up is via the CTR weekly email newsletter or the website. Course Development Funds Innovative course development is fundamental to Brown’s open curriculum. Grant support is available to help faculty develop new courses or revise existing courses in ways that promote strategic initiatives: communication across difference, data literacy, STEM, engaged scholarship, and international topics. Mini-grants support improvements to existing courses at the undergraduate level. All regular members of the Brown faculty are encouraged to apply. Find out more Development Innovation Ventures DIV holds a year-round grant competition for innovative ideas, pilots and tests them using cutting-edge analytical methods, and scales solutions that demonstrate widespread impact and cost-effectiveness. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Learn more and apply. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Research Funding Brown’s Office of the Vice President for Research and Office of Foundation Relations provide information on over 150 federal, foundation, and corporate funding opportunities focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and health for faculty, post-doctoral trainees, and graduate students. These include opportunities to support research as well as the development of talented leaders in the academic pipeline who wish to address racism, violence, policing, and incarceration as public health issues. The information provided includes deadlines, award amounts, eligibility criteria, whether the opportunity is specifically aimed at investigators from diverse backgrounds, direct links to the funding opportunities, and whom to contact at Brown for more information. Faculty Research Travel Fund (FRTF) The FRTF is available to voting members of the Brown campus-based faculty for assistance in meeting the cost of professional travel during any fiscal (budget) year, July 1-June 30. The FRTF is designated to support trips to attend conferences and to do scholarly research or field work. Learn more Global Innovation Fund (GIF) The Global Innovation Fund (GIF) invests in social innovations that aim to improve the lives and opportunities of millions of people in the developing world. Through grants and risk capital, it supports breakthrough solutions with strong potential for social impact at a large scale. Financial support ranges from $50,000 to $15 million. GIF accepts applications on a rolling basis. Learn more and apply Grand Challenges for Development The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) launched Grand Challenges for Development to focus global attention and resources on specific, well defined international development problems, and to promote innovative approaches, processes, and solutions to solving them. They engage non-traditional solvers such as businesses, researchers, and scientists around critical development problems in a variety ways through partnerships, prizes, challenge grant funding, crowdsourcing, and more to identify innovations that work. Learn more Grantsmanship on the Go Activities that take an hour or less that will better position you for pursuing grants. Find out more Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards To stimulate innovation, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is pleased to announce the 2017 Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Awards. Brown University faculty or preferably teams of faculty investigators may apply for one-year seed funding awards of up to $25,000 to support innovative research aimed at improving children’s health. In addition to requesting funding support, applicants may request technical assistance and collaboration from the Hassenfeld Child Health Institute’s Core Research and Evaluation Unit. Deadline:Thursday, June 1, 2017 Internal Funding Opportunities The Office of the Vice-President for Research (OVPR) and many other offices across campus offer internal funding to help advance scholarly projects. NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts The NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts is the official publication for NIH grant policies, guidelines, and funding opportunities. Learn more about the NIH Guide and subscribe today! RWJ Foundation The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funds a wide array of research and initiatives to help address some of America’s most pressing health challenges. In addition to opportunities presented through targeted grant programs and funding partnerships, RWJ continually accepts brief proposals for funding of new and creative approaches to building a Culture of Health. Current RWJ funding opportunities. Research News Funding Opportunities School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top