Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Home Current Forum Past Forums About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Student Research Forum Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Student Research Forum Current Forum Current Forum Student Registration and Abstracts Judge Registration Volunteer Registration Schedule of Events Frequently Asked Questions Presentation Guidelines Scoring Criteria Awards Banquet Three Minute Thesis 3MT Past Forums Past Forums Past Guest Speakers Past Award Winners About About Support by Contributors Committees and Contacts Abstract Registration Judge Registration 2022 Booklet Student Research Forum video produced by Bobby Pitts. Student Research Forum Mission The Student Research Forum (SRF) exists to serve the students at the University of Kansas Medical Center, to advance their research and to bolster their professional development. The forum provides a public stage for the presentation, assessment and discussion of their scientific investigations as well an opportunity to recognize and award exceptional research efforts. The forum will provide exposure to talks from world-class researchers and promote interdisciplinary collaboration between fields, departments, professional schools and universities to foster high-quality, innovative research that will transform our present scientific understanding and ultimately improve the lives of people in the state of Kansas and throughout the world. Each year the Graduate Student Council sponsors the Student Research Forum. A in-person multi-day interactive event, the 2022 SRF will be held on April 5, 2022 - April 8, 2022. It will showcase research conducted by students from the Schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Health Professionals. In addition to the student presentations, the SRF features a banquet (April 8, 2022) and the extremely popular A.L. Chapman Keynote Research Lecture will be on Thursday, April 7th at 11am. We are pleased to announce that the 2022 A.L. Chapman Keynote Research Lecture will feature, Dr. Ada Yonath. Questions or Comments can be e-mailed to srf@kumc.edu. Submission of abstracts is open, the deadline for all abstract submissions is February 25, 2022. A.L. Chapman Keynote Research Lecture The A.L. Chapman Lecture series was created in honor of A.L. Chapman, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy & Cell Biology and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs Emeritus. Dr. Ada Yonath Dr. Yonath will focus on her seminal research on ribosomes for which she was awarded a Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2009. She will also focus on her perseverance in conducting thousands of experiments to visualize protein structure despite personal and professional challenges. Her work paved the way for our understanding of protein synthesis and has implications for the development of antibiotics that target ribosomes. The honorary speaker for the 2023 A.L. Chapman Keynote Research Lecture will be announced after the 2022 Forum. Official Noble Prize website Student Research Forum University of Kansas Medical Center Student Research Forum 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 srf@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.