Skip to main content Boise State University Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search Accessibility at Boise State Boise State University is committed to making the information and resources on our website accessible to all users. We aim to follow accepted web standards that give members of the public and members of the University community full access to information on our site. Find information for students, employees, and instructors. Accessibility resources at Boise State IT Accessibility Policy Statement The University is committed to supporting an information technology (IT) environment that is accessible to all, and in particular to individuals with disabilities. To this end, the University seeks to deploy information technology that is designed, developed, or procured with accessibility in mind. An Accessible IT environment generally enhances usability for everyone, and particularly for people using Assistive Technologies. By supporting IT Accessibility, the University helps ensure that everyone is able to access, benefit from, and contribute to its electronic programs and services. See Policy #8140 Information Technology Accessibility Boise State University +1 (208) 426-1000 1910 University Drive, Boise, Idaho 83725 - Idaho's Metropolitan Doctoral Research University Follow Us Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to collect information about how you interact with our website and allow us to remember you. We use this information in order to improve and customize your browsing experience and for analytics and metrics about our visitors both on this website and other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Statement. Close Message