Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Student Accessibility Services Getting Around Campus Student Accessibility Services Getting Around Campus Brown University is located in the College Hill section of Providence, RI. The campus is quite old and is fully integrated with the city. There are some access challenges posed by the topography as well as the age of the buildings. The following information may be useful in naviagting the campus. Campus Accessibility Map Brown University has an accessibility map that provides information about naviagting the campus and accessing its facilities. The map includes information about paths of travel, lift locations, and accessible parking, among other things. These masp can be found on the Facilities Management Website: PDF campus accessibility map (2021) Interactive online map (2015) For specific information about accessibility or to request a universal lift key, please contact us at 401-863-9588 or [email protected]. Campus Tours and Information Sessions Accessible campus tours are available. Please contact Admission directly to request one: 401-863-2378 or by visiting the Admission site. Parking Accessible (handicapped) street parking is available throughout the campus and can be used by anyone with a valid state handicapped hang tag. Please consult our campus accessibility map to identify those spots. In addition, the state of Rhode Island allows anyone with a valid state handicapped hang tag to park in any legal parking spot beyond the posted time limits. Access Shuttle The Access Shuttle provides point to point rides within the campus for people with mobility concerns of any kind. The Access Shuttle runs during the day and connects with the safeRIDE on Call Shuttle in the evening. Service is limited during the summer and breaks. Please call 401-225-9572 to schedule a same day ride. More information can be found on our "Access Shuttle" webpage. Wheelchair Rental Information Wheelchairs are not available on the campus but there are number of local companies that will rent and deliver wheelchairs at reasonable rates including but not limited to the following: County Square Pharmacy Inc. 289 County Street Attleboro, MA 02703 508-222-7620 No delivery $50 deposit required Manual wheelchair rates: Daily: $5 Weekly: $25 Monthly: $45 Related Files Map.pdf 2021 Accessibility Map.pdf Home Getting Around Campus Access Shuttle Parking Accommodations Registration Accommodations & Services Academic Accommodation Letter Notifications Graduate Student FAQ Faculty Report an Accessibility or Accommodation Concern Access or Accommodation Concerns Appeals Accessibility/Awareness Resources Emergency Planning Event Accessibility Financial Assistance for Evaluations or Coaching Library SAS Rooms Scheduling Support Groups & Events School of Professional Studies (SPS) Programs Print this Page Share this Page Student Accessibility Services Brown University Box Box P Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-9588 Fax 401-863-1444 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Web Links WebServices BrownSites Demo BrownSites Documentation Special Links Your Custom Links PAUR Media Relations Web Style Guide