Teaching, Advising and Mentoring Grants (TAM) Updated November 29, 2007 At least (10) Teaching, Advising and Mentoring Grants, each worth up to $15,000, are available annually on a competitive basis. The project must be initiated during the summer months, but the project period may continue through the following academic year. TAM Grants support teaching or advising projects carried out directly by the faculty applicant. Joint applications from more than one faculty member are also welcome. TAM grants will not be awarded to a faculty member more than once in three years except for rare circumstances. The University Council on Teaching (UCT) invites creative, innovative, unusual, and “out of the box” proposals for the teaching, advising and mentoring of students at Boston College. The UCT favors proposals that go beyond the normal preparation of course development or the development of a new course needed by a department or school. Proposals using novel technologies or e-learning are encouraged, as well as proposals that support the University’s commitment to the service of faith and the promotion of justice. Almost any expense can be covered by a grant, including up to $5,000 of summer stipend. The maximum amount of a grant is $15,000, although proposals seeking less funding are encouraged and may be more competitive. At the conclusion of the project, a brief summary of the project outcome should be submitted to the Office of The Provost no later than April 15, 2009. Eligibility All full-time faculty are eligible for the grants, subject to the conditions set forth herein. TAM Applications One paper copy of the application should be submitted to department chairs in A&S, LSOE, CSOM, and CSON, and to deans in GSSW and LAW no later than February 8, 2008. Chairs and division directors submit completed applications, along with evaluations, to the dean by February 15, 2008. Deans should submit the applications with their evaluations to the Office of The Provost by February 29, 2008. The applications will be reviewed by a subcommittee of the University Council on Teaching under the direction of the Office of The Provost. Awardees will be notified by late March. Normally, no TAM grant will be awarded to a given faculty member more than once in three years. Teaching, Advising and Mentoring Expense Grants (TAME) This program is limited to funding of up to $2,000 and is similar to the Research Expense Grant Program. TAME funds may be used for almost any expense related to the improvement of teaching, advising or mentoring of BC students. For instance, funds may be used for supplies or equipment not covered by departmental budgets or faculty development at teaching oriented workshops. These funds may not be used to attend research-oriented conferences; however, funds may be used to attend a teaching-oriented workshop at a research conference. Eligibility All full-time faculty are eligible for the grants, subject to the conditions set forth herein. TAME Applications Applications for the TAME program will be reviewed twice during the academic year, once each semester. Deadlines for submission of one paper copy of the application are September 21, 2007 for funding in the Fall semester, and January 25, 2008 for funding during the Spring semester or the following summer. Applications should be submitted to department chairs in A&S, LSOE, CSOM, and CSON, and to deans in the GSSW and LAW, who, in turn, should forward the completed applications, along with their evaluations, directly to the Office of The Provost by October 5, 2007 and February 1, 2008 respectively. The applications will be reviewed by a subcommittee of the University Council on Teaching, under the direction of the Office of The Provost. Awardees will be notified as soon as possible after the submission dates.