Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita News Archive Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About News Clips News Archive First Friday at KU School of Medicine-Wichita will spotlight 3 local artists First Friday in June will be a busy time at KU School of Medicine-Wichita, with openings by three artists in both galleries at the medical school. May 18, 2022 | Jennifer Eaton This painting by local artist Phil Burress will be on display during the FIrst Friday reception for his exhibit, "Green and Growing," on June 3 at KU School of Medicine-Wichita. First Friday in June will be a busy time at KU School of Medicine-Wichita, with openings by three artists in both galleries at the medical school. Debuting in the West Gallery will be “Green and Growing,” featuring oil paintings on panel and canvas by artist Phil Burress. An artist from Park City, Kansas, Burress has a busy life with wife, Lori, and son, Fletcher. His career is in IT and he plays music on the side, but these days all available spare time is spent pursuing growth as an artist. His primary passion is painting landscapes and still lifes in oil. He paints en plein air when possible, as well as in the studio from reference material. Photography will be the theme in the East Gallery with returning Wichita photographers Jason Crile and Amy Franklin. Crile’s “$30 Light Experiment” will feature studio photos using an unusual lighting technique and will include a slideshow of his artistic process. Franklin will display black and white photography within this exhibit. Join us from 5-7 p.m. Friday, June 3, to view the art and meet the artists at the opening reception. Refreshments will be provided. The public entrance is the patient entrance on the east side of the building (1001 N. Minneapolis). Parking is available in the visitor parking lot or on Minneapolis Street. The William J. Reals Gallery of Art at KU School of Medicine-WIchita is free and open to the public. Above, left: This photo is part of the "$30 Light Experiment" by Jason Crile. Above, right: Amy Franklin will display black and white photography, including this photo. KU School of Medicine-Wichita Media Inquiries Belinda Venters bventers@kumc.edu 316-706-5945 Publications Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.