Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska Menu Search Log In About News Events Maps Our Vision Leadership & Organization Diversity & Inclusion Faculty / Staff Services Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Online & Distance Education Law Global Academics Programs of Study Colleges & Departments Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Search for Classes Libraries Accounts & Services Research Office of Research & Economic Development Nebraska Innovation Campus NuTech Ventures Industry Relations Life at Nebraska Involvement & Support Living On Campus Life In Lincoln Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Husker Athletics Outreach & Impact Global Nebraska Nebraska Extension Parents Association Alumni Association Entrepreneurship Visit Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Life at Nebraska Life at Nebraska Nebraska Life at Nebraska Life at Nebraska At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, Huskers have the ability to shape their lives through enriching art, exciting student programs and helpful well-being resources. With so many possibilities at their fingertips, our students create a life at Nebraska that's like no other. Here, you'll have the unique and amazing opportunity to build a life that speaks to you, and our vast array of services and opportunities will help you do just that. Life in Lincoln The University of Nebraska–Lincoln calls the state’s vibrant and emerging capital city home. Lincoln is what happens when Midwest friendliness meets big city innovation. Filled with rapidly-expanding tech companies, active arts scenes and cultural communities, it's a city that encourages growth and inspires its citizens. Lincoln is Growing Pinnacle Bank Arena routinely hosts major touring acts like Pink, Lorde, Run the Jewels, Kendrick Lamar, Brad Paisley and Carrie Underwood. PBA also hosts local and national sports teams, including Husker men's and women's basketball. The arena is part of The Railyard entertainment district, which connects to the Historic Haymarket. There you'll find world-class cuisine, dynamic urban nightlife, and fun activities fit for the whole friend group. UNL’s City Campus is engrained with downtown Lincoln — many of these attractions are only a short walk away from our academic halls! Escape to the Outdoors Lincoln's 6,000 acres of parkland is more per capita than Austin, Portland, and all but a handful of U.S. cities. The well-manicured Pioneers Park, the native woods of Wilderness Park and the open grassland of Nine-Mile Prairie are each within a 10-minute trip from campus. Over 130 miles of wide, smooth trails connect many of these with other points in the city. Visit Lincoln Living on Campus UNL's City and East campuses are cities within the city. City Campus borders downtown to the north, and has a park-like urban character. East Campus is less dense, with a magnificent 'woodsy' getaway in the Maxwell Arboretum, a grove of large specimen trees and shrubs. Both campuses are managed as botanical gardens, and are beautiful in any season. The Choice is Yours As a Husker, you'll live in one of the traditional or suite-style residence halls that are integral to City and East life, or you’ll make your home in one of the many Greek houses. Many students also live in the neighborhoods surrounding the university, including downtown, the Near South, the North Bottoms and Lincoln’s other unique and walkable districts. University Housing Nebraska Greek Arts & Culture The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a force in Lincoln's creative community. The university is located in the hub of Lincoln’s arts and culture community — from gallery shows featuring local artists to concerts from the biggest names in music, there's something for everyone! Lincoln is a music city for all tastes, with an active independent music scene, legendary blues from the Zoo Bar and the delight of summer jazz at Jazz in June. Learn More About Arts & Culture Recreation & Well-Being Your health and well-being is one of our top priorities — which is why we provide multiple resources to allow you to live your healthiest and best life as a Husker! Our dining halls provide nutritious and delicious meals for all our Huskers, with sit-in and take-out options available. You can attend to all your physical fitness needs by utilizing one of our recreational facilities on City Campus and East Campus, or by renting equipment or hitting the rock climbing wall at our Outdoor Adventure Center. Husker Athletics You can't talk about life at Nebraska without mentioning Husker Athletics. Our historic athletic programs provide unparalleled opportunities for student-athletes and endless entertainment opportunities for spectators. Huskers.com Resources Around Campus Campus Maps Campus Offices & Administrative Units Colleges, Departments & Programs Parking & Transit Services University Housing Dining Menu Technical Support Computer Help Desk Computer Shop NCard Printing & Copy Services Student Email Safety & Emergency Emergency Planning & Preparedness TIPS Incident Reporting University Police Victim Advocate Personal Resources Childcare Center International Student & Scholar Services LGBTQA+ Resource Center Office of Student Assistance Student Government (ASUN) Student Legal Services Women’s Center Health & Wellness Campus Recreation Intramurals Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) University Health Center Activities Daily Nebraskan Greek Affairs Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center Lied Center for Performing Arts Nebraska Innovation Studio Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Student Involvement We’re here to help you shape the future. Visit Nebraska Become a Husker Contact Us Address University of Nebraska–Lincoln 1400 R Street Lincoln, NE 68588 US Phone 402-472-7211 Social Media Affiliates Alumni & Friends Emeriti and Retirees Association Husker Athletics Lied Center for Performing Arts International Quilt Museum Nebraska Innovation Campus Nebraska Public Media Parents Association Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center Sheldon Museum of Art State Museum University Bookstore University of Nebraska Press University of Nebraska Foundation University of Nebraska System Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.