Construction Management - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Technology Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to Construction Management Search College of Technology Programs & Degrees Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors Internships Construction Management Internships People Faculty Staff Boards of Advisors Public Information Advising UH Home College of Technology Departments Construction Management The Art and Science Necessary to Create Civilization The Department of Construction Management offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in Construction Management, Supply Chain and Logistics Technology, and Technology Project Management. Strong industry partnerships offer unmatched opportunities for students to get real-world experience and make connections that often lead to career opportunities. In the News Tony Bazzini, Former ExxonMobil Global Projects Company Chief Project Management Engineer Joins the College of Technology - Department of Construction Management An industry innovator and leader with nearly 40 years of experience has joined the College of Technology as a Professor of Practice in Const... CM Student receives NAC Scholarship College of Technology undergraduate Maria Standley was awarded a prestigious scholarship by the National Academy of Construction (NAC) in th... Alumni Spotlight: Jay Dorsey and Hernan Morales on Building the Future for Construction For Jay Dorsey and Hernan Morales, adaptability and dedication have been essential for their professional success. Since their time at the U... Paving the Way for Women in Construction The College of Technology is joining The National Association of Women in Construction (NAWIC) in celebrating Women in Construction Week Mar... New Student Organization Highlights Women in Construction A new student organization in the College of Technology seeks to highlight the accomplishments of female students and professionals in the C... UH Technology Programs First in Nation to Earn CILT- Certification UH Technology Programs First in Nation to Earn CILT- Certification Port Houston gifts $50,000 to UH Supply Chain and Logistics Technology Program Port Houston gifts $50,000 to UH Supply Chain and Logistics Technology Program Construction Management Graduate Student Helps Improve METRO Shared Use Path Network The Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO), is implementing shared use paths, bike lanes, bike parking and bike repair stat... Watch the Spirit of ECC Award Video From helping you make decisions about your major to making preparations for graduation, we are here to assist. With our advanced facilities, award winning faculty and industry connections, the Construction Management department offers students unique opportunities to achieve their highest potential and graduate with confidence in their skills. Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Science in Construction Management The Construction Management program provides the ultimate balance of construction, business, and engineering courses. The program emphasizes the critical skills that are highly sought in today and tomorrow's job markets. Graduates of the CM program are prepared to enter rewarding professions such as project managers, field operations engineers, construction estimators, and construction planners. Students may choose between two areas of concentration - the Process and Industrial Track or the Commercial Construction Track. The 4-year undergraduate program is accredited by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE). Please visit Public Information: Objectives & Outcomes to learn more. Bachelor of Science in Supply Chain and Logistics Technology The Supply Chain and Logistics Technology major offers a broad array of career paths with global opportunities, with a choice of four academic tracks: Operations - knowledge for a domestic and international career in sales, marketing and operations. Systems Management - a technology-oriented focus with a strong analytical approach designed to achieve optimum solutions to complex supply chain/logistics problems. Global Logistics - in-depth analysis of international logistics and its role in the supply chain with a focus on maritime attributes and activities. Directed Emphasis - designed for community college transfer students whose colleges have an articulation agreement with the University of Houston. Graduate Degrees Master of Science in Construction Management Businesses value and seek out managers with advanced technical knowledge and leadership skills. Earning a Master of Science degree in Construction Management at the University of Houston positions you on a direct pathway for continued success in this challenging and rewarding career. Our experienced faculty and intensive curriculum prepare students with a range of practical and technical skills like estimating, scheduling, contract administration, and project management. You will be among the best prepared to apply your knowledge to practical work through training in advanced topics, such as risk analysis, sustainability, information management, industry best practices, quality management, and leadership theories. Our online program option offers maximum flexibility for working professionals. The same program is available internationally to all who choose to pursue the M.S. in Construction Management. Master of Science in Supply Chain and Logistics Technology With a Master of Science degree in Supply Chain and Logistics Technology, you will emerge with the right skills and knowledge in logistics, inventory management, transportation, sales, and procurement. Graduates of our program fill vital management and supervisory roles in a wide range of industries, with job titles such as procurement manager, distribution manager, logistics engineer, logistics analyst, logistics consultant and logistics manager. Master of Science in Technology Project Management The ability to plan and manage technology projects is an increasingly important skill for those with a technical background. The Master of Science degree in Technology Project Management prepares individuals for leadership roles in technology-driven workplaces. Core courses provide in-depth preparation in project management skills complemented by a directed area of study to allow graduate students the opportunity to focus on an area of specialization. Certificates Construction Management Certification The Construction Management Certificate provides fundamental skills to manage construction costs, schedules, and contracts. The program is designed to assist working professionals such as Project Controls Specialist, Estimators, Schedulers, Contract Administrators, Construction/Field Engineers, Field Superintendents, and Construction/Project Managers to reach their goals by attaining higher technical skills. Lean Six Sigma Certification The University of Houston's College of Technology Lean Six Sigma Program is designed to assist organizations with implementing a quality improvement initiative. Our programs are specifically designed to support organizations by helping them learn to identify and eliminate problems that prevent the achievement of their strategic goals and objectives. Logistics & Transportation Policy Program The Logistics & Transportation Policy Program (LTPP) is dedicated to providing the most relevant and cutting-edge logistics and distribution skills for supply chain, logistics and maritime business professionals. The program is a certified member of the APICS (American Production and Inventory Control Society). Professional Project Management Certification Beyond learning the basics of project management, participants will explore new trends in the marketplace such as global outsourcing - a trend which is causing significant changes the project management process, virtual team management, and new collaboration techniques necessary for the modern project manager. Minors CM Minors Minor in Construction Management Supply Chain and Logistics Technology See an Advisor Students are encouraged to visit with their advisor regularly to update their degree plan and to stay informed about the resources offered by the College of Technology. FAQs Have questions? Check out our FAQs for assistance. Advising Forms Forms necessary for your academic planning including change of major, and general petition form. Contact Us Technology Annex 4730 Calhoun Rd. Ste. 309 Houston, TX 77204 Construction Management Phone Numbers Student Advising: 713-743-4100 Certificate Program: 713-743-9091 General Inquiry: 713-743-4712 Fax: 713-743-0602 Student Organizations Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) Student Chapter The mission of Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) Student Chapters is to promote excellence in construction education, training, and practice. ABC strives to integrate the construction industry and academia in an environment that will allow the builders of tomorrow to master the art of construction. Sigma Lambda Chi International Construction Honor Society The fundamental purpose of Sigma Lambda Chi is to provide recognition to outstanding students in construction curricula. Sigma Lambda Chi is the society that offers students the opportunity to be recognized locally and internationally for their academic accomplishments as a construction major. Associated General Contractors of America (AGC) Student Chapter The purpose of the Associated General Contractors of America (AGC) Student Chapter is to develop knowledge and skills that will assist young professionals in the construction industry. AGC allows its members to further understand the discipline of construction while creating opportunities that promote the application of academia and experiences to supplement and generate new ideas to build on. Supply-Chain Industrial Distribution Organization (SIDO) SIDO develops its members academically and professionally by providing them opportunities and resources relating to the supply chain and logistics fields. Since 1985, SIDO has helped students interested in the field, particularly those majoring/minoring/taking graduate studies in Supply Chain and Logistics Technology at the University of Houston. 4230 MLK Blvd. #300 Houston, TX 77204-4021 Phone: 713-743-4100 Phone(Sugar Land): 832-842-3054 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Maps Careers Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Social Media Title IX — Sexual Misconduct Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies