Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Research with impact: Suzanne B. Shu, marketing and management communication Posted on April 22, 2021 By Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X I'm Suzanne Shu. I'm the John S. Dyson Professor in Marketing at the Dyson School in the Johnson College of Business at Cornell University. The work that I tend to focus on the most--the big themes in my research--are topics like decision making for consumers, especially financial decisions in retirement. I also look at a lot of health decisions and how we can use behavioral science and what we know about consumer decision-making to help people make better decisions for their health and welfare. And then I also do look at some sustainability and environmental decisions. So in a recent paper that we just published this past year, one of the topics that we looked at was how to help with sustainability issues, and to do that we built upon a theory that some co-authors and I had developed several years ago called psychological ownership. And the basic idea behind psychological ownership is that you can feel ownership, you can feel an attachment for things that aren't actually yours. And so you can imagine sometimes if you go into the store and you find a product that you really like before you've even checked out and purchased it, you start to feel that attachment to it and start to already feel like it's yours. And we had looked at that in a lot of consumer decisions, but we wanted to bring that into the sustainability space as well, and so we especially focused on what are called public goods-- things like public parks or public lakes where people don't actually have an ownership interest other than just sort of being members of the community that use that space. There's often a danger called the "tragedy of the commons," that those kinds of spaces can be overused or not well maintained because no one really has that feeling of ownership, so we did some interventions to encourage a feeling of psychological ownership for those spaces and then see how that affected picking up trash and volunteering and donating money and other kinds of measures that show that people are helping to take care of that space. And we find that some very simple interventions --just a sign, or asking people to imagine the nickname for a lake, or to plot out their path in a park-- was enough to encourage that feeling of ownership and get people to make real behavioral changes and donate money to those spaces to help take better care of them. My work is always motivated by very applied problems. I love thinking through how to use some of these ideas to solve real-world situations. I'm a Cornell alum-- I went through the College of Engineering here, and the engineer in me just loves to solve problems! And so the work that I do does end up often having applications both in government and industry. Some of the psychological ownership work that we've done, for example--we're starting to think about how that might be applied with the new sharing economy. If people start using ride-sharing like Uber instead of owning their own car, that obviously changes that ownership relationship between the consumer and the vehicle, and so what are the implications of that for a company like Uber or for car companies who perhaps have more of a leasing or renting or sharing model instead of an ownership model? A lot of the work I do on financial decision making also has a lot of industry and policy implications. I work regularly with financial services organizations companies to help them think about their retirement offerings for their customers and I work closely with the government, with the Social Security Administration and the CFPB on understanding consumer decision-making related to disclosures for financial products, and helping people sort of make the best decision for themselves that they can. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Professor Suzanne Shu discusses her research on decision-making for consumers, financial decisions in retirement, and psychological ownership. More About research faculty business management marketing communications What to watch next 2:38 MyPlaylist Suzanne Shu on the Research With Impact video series 4:36 MyPlaylist Nancy Chau on contract employment and “alternative employment opportunities" 3:31 MyPlaylist Chris Barrett on the post-harvest value chain 3:39 MyPlaylist Alex Susskind on communication in service-based organizations 3:46 MyPlaylist Yuan Shi on the consequences of short-term-ism,industry patience, and the rising influence of consumers 3:44 MyPlaylist Nathan Yang on retail chain dynamics 3:51 MyPlaylist Matt Marx on entrepreneurship, unobserved commercial potential, and enforcement of employee non-compete agreements 3:45 MyPlaylist Asis Martinez-Jerez on servant leadership and incentives to improve team performance 3:28 MyPlaylist Aija Leiponen on firms’ practices in relation to data privacy 3:32 MyPlaylist Kathy LaTour on online learning and memory 3:36 MyPlaylist Chris Forman on IT investment conditions and knowledge sharing 4:00 MyPlaylist John Tobin-de la Puente on conservation finance 3:39 MyPlaylist Simone Tang on the humanization of organizations 4:04 MyPlaylist Heeyon Kim on status and hierarchy 3:38 MyPlaylist Sanjeev Bhojraj stock compensation expense, cash flows, and inflated valuations 3:43 MyPlaylist Khaled Boughanmi on the consumer experience and the dynamics of success 3:22 MyPlaylist Manoj Thomas on unhealthy consumption in certain populations 3:33 MyPlaylist Manoj Thomas on the psychology of price evaluations 3:42 MyPlaylist Emily Garbinsky on motivating consumers to be more fiscally responsible 3:58 MyPlaylist Miguel Gómez on eco-labels and coffee growers 2:35 MyPlaylist Elizabeth McClean on the ways managers within tech firms respond to external pressure to pay women equitably 3:50 MyPlaylist Vishal Gaur on blockchain applications in supply chain management 2:45 MyPlaylist Vishal Gaur on combining the model and the manager 3:46 MyPlaylist Eswar Prasad on new financial technologies 3:57 MyPlaylist Cathy Kling on the economic valuation of ecosystem services 3:54 MyPlaylist Bill Schmidt on information asymmetry 3:10 MyPlaylist Sunita Sah on the dark side of professionalism 3:46 MyPlaylist Kristi Rennekamp on linguistic formality in firm communications 3:27 MyPlaylist Andrew Davis on information disclosure and supply chain negotiations 3:39 MyPlaylist Kaitlin Woolley on goal-setting and motivations 4:10 MyPlaylist Maureen O’Hara on the inside market 3:49 MyPlaylist Rob Bloomfield on moral accounting 3:47 MyPlaylist Sachin Gupta on health care delivery as it reflects the complexities of society and the marketplace 3:50 MyPlaylist Glen Dowell on the effects of beliefs and norms on businesses’ environmental outcomes 3:25 MyPlaylist Will Cong on financial technology, digital economy, entrepreneurship, business data science 3:28 MyPlaylist Chris Anderson on customer reviews in the lodging space 3:32 MyPlaylist Mark Milstein on sustainability practices and policies 4:02 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Vicki L. Bogan, finance 5:14 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Aija Leiponen, strategy and business economics 4:46 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Matt Marx, management and organizations 4:22 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Jura Liaukonyte, marketing and management communication 3:58 MyPlaylist Research with impact: Jawad Addoum, finance More from Research With Impact 1:57 MyPlaylist Andrew Davis 1:00:50 MyPlaylist Irene Rosenfeld details Kraft Foods' dramatic turnaround surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×