Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Women's Leadership (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Do you dream of changing the world around you for the better? Do you wonder how you can have an impact in your community or in the lives of people around the globe? More and more, women are stepping up to leadership roles in fields as diverse as politics, education, business, health policy, medicine, the arts and the sciences. A major in women's leadership will help you understand the challenges and opportunities women face locally and globally and will give you the knowledge and skills you need to succeed wherever your interests lie. As a women's leadership major, you'll have the opportunity to develop an individual plan of study and to connect personally with leaders in the field. This degree program also works well as a double major, complementing a primary area of study in politics, business or the humanities. FAST FACTS We are one of the first women's leadership majors in the country and the only major in this field in South Carolina. Special lectures and workshops throughout the year will help you hone your leadership skills and develop your own leadership style. A required internship will be tailored to your career goals and will give you work experience before you graduate. Our affiliated faculty come from every college across the University and pride themselves on the quality of their teaching and research. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The Bachelor of Arts in women's leadership combines rigorous academic study with real-world experience to provide our students with the skills, knowledge, resilience and strategies they need to lead in today's world. An innovative, interdisciplinary curriculum introduces students to the study of women's achievements both historically and in contemporary contexts. Core courses in leadership introduce students to key principles and help you discover your own leadership style. Mentoring programs and a required internship will allow you to put new strategies to the test, gain valuable work experience and develop your leadership skills in diverse organizational settings. In addition to your general education requirements, students pursuing this degree will take classes such as Women in Global Perspective; Women and Leadership; Girlhood, Media and Popular Culture; and Theories of Gender and Sexuality. Your classes will be capped by a final senior seminar that will incorporate everything you've learned during your time at Clemson. Double Major This major is designed to work well as a double major with other Bachelor of Arts programs, especially those in political science, economics, communication studies, business, management and the humanities. Curriculum Women's Leadership B.A. Similar Majors Economics (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM By thinking critically about the challenges and opportunities women face worldwide, you’ll be prepared to apply what you’ve learned to succeed in your chosen field of interest, whether it be law, politics, social service, the arts or the sciences. Study Abroad Enhance your awareness of global women’s issues through Clemson’s only faculty-directed study abroad in India. Internships An individualized internship (and sometimes two!) develops job-relevant networks and key career directions. Students have interned with the United Nations, S.C. Supreme Court, U.S. congressmen and senators, corporations, schools and nonprofit Student Success Students have won major fellowships and awards including two Truman finalists, a Rhodes scholarship finalist, Blue Key and PKP award winners. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS It’s On Us Clemson Feminism Club Sister-2-Sister Clemson Debate Society Paw Pantry Undergraduate Student Government AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Government Consultant Deloitte Event Coordinator Aetna Account Executive Soliant Health Marketing Specialist Blue Ridge Energy Cooperative Account Manager Milwaukee Tool RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES J.D. Stanford University Ph.D. Economics University of Virginia J.D. Northwestern University M.A. Public Health Emory University M.Ed. Higher Education University of Michigan COMMON CAREER AREAS Business Education Health and Human Services Law Politics Writing and Editing Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Women's Leadership (B.A.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Management (B.S.) Political Science (B.S./B.A.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.)