Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics can help instructors communicate their expectations to students and assess student work fairly and efficiently. Rubrics can also provide students with informative feedback on their strengths and weaknesses, and prompt students to reflect on their own work. This page describes how to create and use a grading rubric. How to Create a Grading Rubric1 1. Define the purpose of the assignment/assessment for which you are creating a rubric. Consider the following: What exactly is the assigned task? Does it break down into a variety of different tasks? Are these tasks equally important? What are the learning objectives for this assignment/task? What do you want students to demonstrate in their completed assignments/performances? What might an exemplary student product/performance look like? How might you describe an acceptable student product/performance? How might you describe work that falls below expectations? What kind of feedback do you want to give students on their work/performance? Do you want/need to give them a grade? Do you want to give them a single overall grade? Do you want to give them detailed feedback on a variety of criteria? Do you want to give them specific feedback that will help them improve their future work? 2. Decide what kind of rubric you will use: a holistic rubric or an analytic rubric? Holistic and analytic rubrics use a combination of descriptive rating scales (e.g., weak, satisfactory, strong) and assessment criteria to guide the assessment process. Holistic rubric A holistic rubric uses rating scales that include the criteria. For example, Weak: thesis is unclear due to writing style, organization of ideas, and/or grammatical errors. Satisfactory: overall thesis is clear, writing style and organization mostly support the thesis. Strong: Introduction includes a thesis statement, writing style and organization offer ample evidence to support the overall thesis. Advantages: Emphasis on what the learner can demonstrate (rather than what she cannot) Saves time by minimizing the number of decisions made Can be used consistently across raters, provided there has been training Disadvantages: Does not provide specific feedback for improvement Can be difficult to choose a score when student work is at varying levels across the criteria Criteria cannot be weighted Analytic rubric An analytic rubric uses a rating scale to evaluate each criterion separately, forming a grid or table in which the rating scale is presented in the top row and each criterium is listed down the leftmost column. Advantages: Provides feedback on areas of strength or weakness Each criterion can be weighted to reflect its relative importance Disadvantages: More time consuming to create and use than a holistic rubric May not be used consistently across raters, unless extremely well defined 3. Define the criteria. Ask yourself: what knowledge and skills are required for the assignment/assessment? Make a list of these, group and label them, and eliminate any that are not critical. The list should contain no more than 6-7 criteria, but need not include that many. Helpful strategies for defining grading criteria: Review the learning objectives for the course; use the assignment prompt, existing grading checklists, peer response sheets, comments on previous work, past examples of student work, etc. Try describing A/B/C work Work with co-teachers/TAs Talk with colleagues Brainstorm and discuss with students Consider the effectiveness of the criteria: Can they be observed and measured? Are they important and essential? Are they distinct from other criteria? Are they distinct from other criteria? Revise the criteria as needed. Consider how you will weight them relative to each other. 4. Design the rating scale. Most rating scales include 3-5 levels. Consider the following: Given what students are able to demonstrate in this assignment/assessment, what are the possible levels of achievement? Will you use numbers or descriptive labels for these levels? If you choose descriptive labels, what labels are most appropriate? Will you assign a number to those labels? In what order will you list these levels – from lowest to highest or vice versa? 5. Write descriptions for each level of the rating scale. Create statements of expected performance at each level of the rubric. For an analytic rubric do this for each particular criterion of the rubric. These descriptions help students understand your expectations and their performance in regard to those expectations. Well-written descriptions: describe observable and measurable behavior. use parallel language across the scale. indicate the degree to which the standards are met. 6. Create your rubric. Develop the criteria, rating scale and descriptions for each level of the rating scale into a rubric. Space permitting, include the assignment at the top of the rubric. For reading and grading ease, limit the rubric to a single page, if possible. Consider the effectiveness of your rubric and revise accordingly. Get collegial feedback. Ask your TA for feedback. Ask your students for feedback. Try it out on a sample of student work. After you use the rubric, analyze the results and consider its effectiveness, then revise accordingly. How to Use a Grading Rubric In addition to using the rubric to grade an assignment/assessment, you may wish to: distribute the rubric with the assignment. ask students to use the rubric to evaluate their own work. ask students to use the rubric for peer review. 1 This webpage draws heavily from Assessment: What is a Rubric? from DePaul University’s Office for Teaching, Learning and Assessment; and Dannelle D. Stevens & Antonia J. Levi, An Introduction to Rubrics (Sterling, VA: Stylus, 2005), which is available as an online Brown Library resource and in the Center’s library. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top