Skip to main content Top Bar PENN SUSTAINABILITY HOME News Contact View Upcoming Events » Main navigation Our Commitment Overview President's Message About Penn Sustainability Our Plan Our History Our Team Annual Progress Reports STARS Plan Videos Initiatives Overview Learning Sustainability Conserving Energy Designing Green Minimizing Waste Reducing Emissions Purchasing Practices Eating Local Wellness Partners Overview Academic Centers Schools and Centers Student Groups Morris Arboretum Resources Overview FAQs Guides & Manuals Tours and Maps Participate Overview Students Staff and Faculty Penn Community Penn's Work on Air Travel Offsets Selected as Finalist for the International Green Gown Awards Learn more Penn Announces Construction Start on Central PA Solar Facilities Groundbreaking kicks off major project in support of University’s climate goals. Learn more Action! Penn Sustainability’s New Video Series Learn more The Life Cycle of Penn's Waste Learn more Penn Presents Progress in Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0 Learn more News Penn Announces Construction Start on Central PA Solar Facilities The University of Pennsylvania announces that construction has begun on the solar energy project that is part of its Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed in April 2020. This PPA moves the University significantly closer to meeting its commitment of a 100% carbon neutral campus by 2042, as outlined... Learn More Get Outside with the Penn Plant Explorer Are you interested in learning more about the trees and plants on Penn's campus? Or, as the weather warms, in spending more time with friends outdoors? The Penn Plant Explorer Interactive website is an excellent resource for anyone looking to get outside, discover campus gardens, or find a quiet... Learn More Action! Penn Sustainability’s New Video Series Penn Sustainability is producing a video series to illustrate some of the key programs in the Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0. Released primarily on our social media channels, two videos have been released to date, Utilities & Operations and Procurement. Watch these fun short clips about... Learn More Social Links Facebook Twitter Tweets by GreenPenn Instagram Penn Sustainability 3101 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 sustainability@upenn.edu Social Links Our Committment Penn's 2042 Carbon Neutrality Goal Power Purchase Agreement: A 25-Year Commitment The Plan The University of Pennsylvania's Climate and Sustainability Action Plan Penn Sustainability ENewsletter Subscribe to our E-Newsletter » Program Highlights Student Eco-Reps Green Fund Staff and Faculty Eco-Reps Green Labs Footer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Disclaimer Copyright Information Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Website Design and Programming: 4x3, LLC