Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Bookstore> Acquiring a Publisher Complimentary Textbook - Version 1 Acquiring a Publisher Complimentary Textbook Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy RUL07.10.01 Title Acquiring a Publisher Complimentary Textbook Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Bookstore Authority Chancellor History Revised 2-1-11 Placed in University Policy Manual after EXPEDITED REVIEW, transitioned without substantive change from prior version, March 25, 2013. Contact Director of Dowdy Student Stores, Wright Building, (252) 328-6731, studentstores@ecu.edu Related Policies N/A Additional References Student Store Website 1. Purpose: The purpose of this regulation is to define the process by which a faculty member may acquire a publisher complimentary textbook copy. 2. Definition 2.1. A "desk copy" is a complimentary copy of a textbook that a faculty member has selected for use in a class. The department or faculty member arranges for the delivery of these books by directly contacting the publisher or publisher's representative. Book publishers prefer that faculty members correspond with them directly to request desk and examination copies. 2.1.1. When requesting an examination copy, a student copy of the textbook should be requested, as an instructor's copy or text stamped Free Desk Copy cannot be sold. 3. Inability to Secure a Desk Copy 3.1. On occasion, a faculty member is unable to secure a desk copy in a timely manner. When this occurs, the Student Stores will loan the faculty member a textbook for a period of 60 days, if there is an immediate need. The new copy the instructor receives from the Publisher must be used to replace the loaned textbook. 3.1.1. When requesting a textbook desk copy from Dowdy Student Stores an authorization form must be completed, approved by the academic department, signed, and submitted to the store in order to charge the desk copy to the department. 3.1.2. If the desk copy/examination copy is not returned to Dowdy Student Stores within 60 days in a like-new, salable condition, the textbook will be charged to the department. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier