Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Maps and directions About SMU / Maps and directions / Directions to SMU Directions to SMU SMU is located in the heart of Dallas in University Park – a traditional residential neighborhood just five miles north of downtown. It is bound by U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) to the east, Hillcrest Avenue to the west, Mockingbird Lane to the south and Daniel Avenue to the north. I'm coming from... I-75 (North Central Expressway) Dallas North Tollway Denton Waco IH-30 DFW International Airport Dallas Love Field Airport × From U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) Traveling from the north, take the Lovers Lane/University Boulevard/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard. Turn right (west) onto campus. Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Traveling from the south, take the Mockingbird Lane/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard. Turn left (west). Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Close × From Dallas North Tollway Exit Mockingbird Lane and proceed east past Hillcrest Avenue to Bishop Boulevard. Turn left (north) onto the campus. Proceed north 300 feet to Schlegel Street. Turn right to access the Meadows Parking Center. Close × From Denton Traveling south on IH-35E, exit east on IH-635 (LBJ Freeway). Proceed to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) and exit south toward downtown. Proceed about five miles and take the Lovers Lane/University Boulevard/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard. Turn right (west) onto campus. Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Close × From Waco Traveling north on IH-35E, exit east on the Woodall Rogers Freeway just north of downtown Dallas. Proceed east for a few miles and then exit north to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway). Proceed north for about five miles and take the Mockingbird Lane/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard and turn left (west) onto campus. Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Close × From IH-30 Traveling from either direction, exit north to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway); the sign indicates “Sherman.” Proceed north for about five miles and take the Mockingbird Lane/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard and turn left (west) onto campus. Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Close × From D/FW International Airport Take the North Exit from the airport to IH-635 (LBJ Freeway). Proceed to U.S. Highway 75 (North Central Expressway) and exit south toward downtown. Proceed about five miles and take the Lovers Lane/University Boulevard/SMU Boulevard exit. Continue on the service road to SMU Boulevard. Turn right (west) onto campus. Moody Parking Center is at the southeast corner of SMU Boulevard and Airline Road. Close × From Dallas Love Field Airport – 15 minutes to campus Exit left (east) from the airport to Mockingbird Lane. Go east on Mockingbird. Cross Lemmon Avenue, Inwood Road, Dallas North Tollway, Preston Road, Hillcrest Avenue, Bishop Boulevard and Ownby Drive. Turn left (north) onto Airline Road to enter the campus, and go to Dublin Street. Turn left (north) onto Dublin Street. Turn left (west) onto SMU Boulevard. There is a visitor’s parking located at the intersection of Airline Road and SMU Boulevard across from the Laura Lee Blanton Student Services Building. Close × The SMU Admission Offices (Blanton Student Services Building) Copy goes here. Close × Perkins Administration Building Copy goes here. Close × Bush Presidential Center Copy goes here. Close Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"