Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Science and Technology Date May 25, 2019 2019-05-25 Media Contact Kevin Stacey [email protected] 401-863-3766 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2019 from May 24 to 26, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage throughout the festivities. Commencement and Reunion 2019 Student-designed sundial sculpture dedicated during Commencement and Reunion As alumni returned to campus and thousands of new graduates prepared to receive their degrees and begin the next chapter of their lives, the Brown community dedicated a student-designed sundial sculpture named ‘Infinite Possibility.’ PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — At high noon on Saturday, May 25, members of the Brown University community gathered to dedicate the newest public art installation on College Hill — a student-designed sundial sculpture that marks the position of the noonday sun on Giancarlo Plaza in front of Brown’s Engineering Research Center. The stainless-steel structure, called “Infinite Possibility,” takes the shape of a Möbius strip — a half-twisted loop with the peculiar characteristic of having only one continuous surface. At noon each day, a spot of sunlight peaks through a small hole on one side of the structure, landing on the inside of the loop. Over the course of a year, the spot of sun traces along an analemma, a figure-eight-shaped diagram of the sun’s annual path. {"preview_thumbnail":"/sites/g/files/dprerj216/files/styles/video_embed_wysiwyg_preview/public/video_thumbnails/bCbsofgLbVs.jpg?itok=IGnfcii-","video_url":"https://youtu.be/bCbsofgLbVs","settings":{"responsive":1,"width":"854","height":"480","autoplay":0},"settings_summary":["Embedded Video (Responsive)."]} At Saturday’s dedication, Brown President Christina Paxson described the piece and its melding of art, science, design and engineering as the embodiment of "so many great things about Brown." “We know the Möbius strip has engineering and physics and mathematical properties… [and] we’re right here in front of this glorious engineering research center so it’s sited perfectly," Paxson said. "It also embodies sort of the innovation and collaboration and, I would say, persistent spirit that our students also display." Paxson thanked the students who oversaw the design, construction and installation of the piece. The work was done by Brown STEAM, an interdisciplinary student group that explores the intersection of art, science and math. The core leaders of the project were Brown juniors David Schurman, Elizabeth Austin and Emma Abele, as well as Class of 2019 graduates Ethan Mok and Linda Park, who were both set to receive their degrees the following day. Charles Giancarlo, Christina Paxson, Emma Abele, David Schurman and Ethan Mok admire the sculpture at today's dedication. Photo: Amy Simmons / Brown University Paxson also extended thanks to Charles Giancarlo, a Class of 1979 engineering alumnus who sponsored the project and made a point of involving students in its creation. Two years ago, working with administrators at the School of Engineering, Giancarlo laid out broad guidelines for what he had in mind. Giancarlo wanted something that captured the mix of science and art that characterizes engineering at Brown. He wanted something that people could physically interact with, yet would last for many years. And he wanted something that would the position of the sun — humankind’s oldest means of telling time. "I think what Charlie really knew was that Brown students rise to challenges, and they certainly rose to this one in the most glorious way possible," Paxson said. Giancarlo applauded the “remarkable and magnificent work” done by the students. “It speaks to the true Brown promise, I think, and the Brown purpose, which is creating infinite possibilities for our students and in turn creating infinite possibilities for the world through our students,” Giancarlo said. “It really reflects the Brown experience in its essence: It’s the perfect nexus of art and science, sublimely simple in many ways but with multi-layers of complexity. It explicitly displays its intended purpose while incorporating many additional layers for the curious.” Engineering Dean Larry Larson echoed the sentiment that the piece captures the essence of Brown's spirit and mission. "With ‘Infinite Possibility,’ here we have this gorgeous Möbius strip design integrated with a very robust sundial," Larson said. "This is a perfect physical embodiment, I think, of the liberal arts ideal — the integration of all knowledge." The dedication came amid the celebration of Brown’s Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2019, as thousands of new Brown graduates prepared for the next chapter of their lives and the infinite possibilities that await them. 1 of 10 Ethan Mok, Linda Park, Elizabeth Austin, Malcolm MacDougall (an artist who fabricated the piece), David Shurman and Emma Abele stand with their creation on installation day. 2 of 10 Mok, Schurman, Park and Austin (from right to left) along with students from Brown STEAM spent two years designing the piece and planning for its installation. 3 of 10 Working the the Brown Design Workshop, a maker space available to all Brown students, the sundial team built a model to test how the sundial would capture the sun's position. 4 of 10 Testing involved making sure the final piece would be aligned precisely with true north on the plaza in front of the Engineering Research Center. 5 of 10 The testing model helped to ensure that rays from the noonday sun would fall on exactly the right spot. 6 of 10 Installation of the final piece began in early May. 7 of 10 Students worked with Brown Facilities Management and Shawmut Design and Construction on the installation process. 8 of 10 The alignment of the final piece needed to be precise in order for the sundial to properly catch the noonday sun. 9 of 10 The sundial's analemma — a diagram of the sun's position throughout the year — was calculated the statue's exact latitude and longitude. 10 of 10 A view of "Infinite Possibility" from the Engineering Research Center on installation day. Complete Coverage As Brown celebrates Commencement and Reunion Weekend 2019 from May 24 to 26, look no further for complete news, photo, video and social media coverage throughout the festivities. Commencement and Reunion 2019 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Student-designed sundial sculpture dedicated during Commencement and Reunion Open details for Student-designed sundial sculpture dedicated during Commencement and Reunion Bookmark this Page