Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Criminal Justice Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Criminal Justice Major Apply Visit Request More Info Criminal Justice Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Learn how the criminal justice system works with the Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. You’ll form a deep understanding of its complex history, policies and societal implications. The 123-credit Criminal Justice BA undergraduate program emphasizes problem-solving and critical thinking so you gain an understanding of the nature of crimes, including why and how they’re committed. You’ll also learn to evaluate the effectiveness and fairness of the ways in which society prevents, controls and responds to crimes. Through multidisciplinary coursework and practice-focused immersive opportunities, you’ll learn how the criminal justice system is tied to other areas of society, such as healthcare and education systems. You will study issues such as fairness in sentencing, mass incarceration, police legitimacy, victims’ rights and reintegration of formerly incarcerated individuals into society. Through Temple’s internationally renowned Inside-Out Prison Exchange Program, you’ll have the unique opportunity to meaningfully understand the lives of prisoners. Students who earn the Criminal Justice BA are not only informed members of society, but are well prepared for advanced education in a range of fields that address criminal justice issues, such as law, public health, social work, public policy and sociology. They are also prepared for careers in criminal justice fields, including government and law enforcement agencies, public defense, victim and criminal advocacy organizations, and more. Classes & Curriculum The Criminal Justice Major curriculum is comprised of College of Liberal Arts general requirements, major-specific requirements and general electives. The following courses are required to complete the bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice. Criminal Justice Research Methods Criminal Justice Statistics Introduction to Criminal Justice Introduction to Criminal Law Nature of Crime Learn more about Criminal Justice Major required courses. Related Graduate Degrees Criminal Justice MA Criminal Justice PhD Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. Criminal Justice 4+1 BA/MA Program High-achieving undergraduate students will be invited by the faculty of the Criminal Justice department to apply for the 4+1 BA/MA program. During the last three undergraduate semesters, students admitted to this program begin taking graduate courses along with their undergraduate curriculum. They then complete the remaining requirements of the Criminal Justice MA in the subsequent year. Eligible students will receive a notification at the end of their sophomore year, and applications will be accepted until Oct. 7 of their junior year. Learn more about the Criminal Justice 4+1 program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors College of Liberal Arts academic advisors help you navigate your curriculum and potential career paths throughout your time at Temple. Students interested in the general Criminal Justice BA program can contact Corissa Reilly, academic advisor in the College of Liberal Arts. Phone: 215-204-7919 Email: corissa.reilly@temple.edu Criminal Justice Advising Center The mission of the Criminal Justice Advising Center is to assist students with planning and implementing schedules, provide career information and help students navigate their college years. Our office posts information about scholarships, jobs, internships and social organizations that will maximize the students’ college experience. Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact Contact the below staff member with questions regarding the Criminal Justice program, including admissions, requirements and financial aid. E. Rely Vîlcica is the undergraduate chair in the Criminal Justice Department. Email: rvilcica@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Criminal Justice Department. Cathy Rosen is chair of the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1089 Email: crosen@temple.edu Jennifer Wood is the undergraduate chair in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-8055 Email: woodj@temple.edu Joseph DelMastro is the administrator in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1376 Email: joseph.delmastro@temple.edu Student Mentoring Undergraduate students in the Criminal Justice program have the opportunity to seek mentorship from volunteer graduate students at the Criminal Justice Undergraduate Student Mentoring Center. For more information, contact Alyssa Mendlein, Criminal Justice doctoral candidate in the College of Liberal Arts. Email: alyssa.mendlein@temple.edu Criminal Justice Honors Program The Criminal Justice Department has its own Honors Program in which majors who are also University Honors students may tailor their honors experience to include a criminal justice specialization. In addition to the honors-level elective courses offered, an invaluable part of the program is the opportunity for students to develop an honors thesis based upon an undergraduate research project individually mentored by a criminal justice professor. Learn more about the Criminal Justice Honors Program. University Honors Programs The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Getting involved and connecting with other students is easy at Temple. There are more than 300 student organizations available, including community programs, student government, student media and clubs. The following student organizations may be of interest to students in the Criminal Justice BA program. The Criminal Justice Society hosts speakers from a variety of criminal justice-related organizations, hosts information sessions on applying to graduate school and law school, and performs voluntary community service projects both within and outside the Temple community. The TU Public Advocacy Club encourages members to contribute to social and political progress in the university community and in the Greater Philadelphia region. Students interested in the legal side of criminal justice can join the Temple Pre-law Society, which engages students with networking events, guest lectures, workshops, LSAT prep, and law school information sessions. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CJ-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Criminal Justice Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info