Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Robsham Theater Menu Main Nav Robsham Theater Arts Center Robsham Box Office Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Venues Overview Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Robsham Box Office Robsham Box Office Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Home Venues 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Venues Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Boston College’s recently acquired 300 Hammond Parkway (300 HPP) property features multiple spaces suitable for events or rehearsals. The event spaces of this building are under the management of the Robsham Theater Arts Center (RTAC). This building was recently renovated, however additional work is expected to occur in the upcoming year. That being said, the venues in 300 Hammond Pond Parkway are an exciting addition to the Robsham Theater Arts Center inventory. For large events, there is the 300 HPP Auditorium which can seat up to 748 patrons. This is the room with the largest capacity of the RTAC inventory. The Multi-Purpose Room is a large ballroom-like room, featuring a small proscenium stage at one end that can seat roughly 479 theater-style. The 300 HPP Outdoor Quad is a large outdoor event space. The 300HPP Hexagon Room is a small hexagon-shaped meeting room/rehearsal area which can also be used as a conference space or green room. If you have any questions about the venues at 300 Hammond Pond Parkway, including how to reserve the space, please see the link to the Venue Information Packet (VIP) listed below. If you would prefer this PDF as an emailed text or have any other questions, please notify us at rtac.operations@bc.edu and we will be happy to help. Thank you. Download a copy of the 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Venue Information Packet (V.I.P.) Back To Top Back To Top Robsham Theater Arts Center Boston College 617-552-4800 About Venues Box Office Connect with us Facebook Twitter Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College