Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in New Product Development Gain the critical skills needed to further your engineering career with the College of Engineering’s Graduate Certificate in New Product Development at Temple University. This nine-credit online certificate program is designed for practicing engineers looking for advanced technical knowledge and new management tools. Students will acquire expertise in the marketing of technological products, interpersonal leadership, and the design and execution of organizational processes. They will also learn theories and practices for innovation, methods for design inquiry and characteristics of a design thinking process. Instruction in Agile project management methodologies and financial analysis of the value of a project will expand students’ leadership skills and business acumen. Discover new roles for leaders and managers in forward-thinking organizations adapting to changes in the market. With this graduate certificate, students will learn the principles to innovate and lead new product development directly from industry experts working in the field. They will understand how to effectively use these tools to conceptualize, establish and bring to market valuable new projects, products and services in the context of an existing organization. A Clear Path to a Master's Degree Meet the demands of an evolving industry through Temple’s innovative approach to continuing education for engineers. The New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) is part of a series of four graduate certificates offering students flexibility and customization. Students can choose one to gain specific niche skills or combine them for cross-disciplinary training. All four certificates can be completed along with a capstone project to earn the Master of Engineering MEng. Program Format & Curriculum Students can complete the six courses of 1.5 credits each in three semesters. The curriculum is delivered in an online format blending synchronous and asynchronous courses. The nine-credit program comprises exams, group projects, individual assignments and online discussion forums. The courses required for this certificate include the following. Design Thinking Idea to Invoice: Managing the New Product Development Process–Part 1 Idea to Invoice: Managing the New Product Development Process–Part 2 Management Principles for Innovators, Engineers and Technologists–Part 1 Management Principles for Innovators, Engineers and Technologists–Part 2 Marketing Technological Products and Services Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in New Product Development. Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Manufacturing and Robotics Computer and Systems Security Engineering Project Management Careers Temple’s College of Engineering has created a series of graduate certificates to fill the widening skills gap in the engineering industry. The New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) will provide specialized technical and advanced leadership skills and prepare students to branch off into management and sales positions within the field. Graduates can expect to find roles similar to the following engineering positions. Lead systems engineer New product engineer Product marketing manager Retail technology application manager Senior product engineer Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact For more information about the New Product Development Certificate (Graduate), contact the following staff member. Thomas Edwards is an associate professor of instruction in the College of Engineering. Phone: 215-450-8822 Email: tve@temple.edu Accreditation Temple’s Mechanical Engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board of Engineering and Technology (ABET). Learn more about our accreditation, program educational objectives and student outcomes. EN-NPD-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in New Product Development Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info