Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Art About Programs People Facilities Resources News/Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Us Contact Us Art Community CommunityA.R.T.S.Photographic Society Chair of Excellence Exhibition Space Box GalleryFogelman GalleriesAMUM IEAA Take Action Apply to the UofM Art Appreciation Support the College Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebook Home Department of Art About Us Chair of Excellence Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chairs of Excellence in Art History Inaugurated April 2, 1989 The Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History (COE) is designed for a visiting scholar in art history whose field of research will supplement the disciplines of the full-time faculty in the Department of Art. Duration of residence may vary from one semester to three years. All fields of art history and visual culture are welcomed. Specific duties involve teaching one upper-level undergraduate course and a graduate seminar in the COE's area of expertise, possibly serving as a reader on MS thesis committees. The holder of this chair is expected to maintain residence and lecture in the city as well as maintain visibility in research nationally. To facilitate the accomplishments of these duties, the COE are provided with a travel budget for research and conference attendance, book allowance, and a graduate assistant. The holder of this chair also reviews the university library holdings in her/his area and recommend acquisitions where appropriate. Ph.D. in art history, visual culture, or an appropriate related fields are encouraged to apply. Scholars who hold a terminal degree with experience in either academic or museum settings are also eligible. We welcome senior and junior scholars who have established a significant publication record nationally and internationally in their field. Ellen Daugherty Ph.D, University of Virginia (2004) Dr. Ellen Daugherty is the Dorothy Kayser Hohenberg Chair of Excellence in Art History at the University of Memphis. She holds a PhD in art history from the University of Virginia. Between 2005 and 2019, Dr. Daugherty taught art history at the Memphis College of Art, where she was also Chair of the Division of Liberal Arts. At MCA, Dr. Daugherty was awarded the Dorothy Sturm Distinguished Teaching Award. Although trained as an Americanist with particular emphasis on the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, Dr. Daugherty has taught broadly, including classes on American and African American art, history of photography, nineteenth-century European art, modernisms, writing for artists, and fashion history. Dr. Daugherty's research has long been focused on issues of the representation of African Americans in public monuments. She is currently working on a book manuscript tentatively titled, "Progress on a Pedestal: Respectability and Racial Uplift in American Public Monuments." Dr. Daugherty was recently an NEH Scholar during the 2018 NEH Summer Institute for College and University Teachers on the Visual Culture of the American Civil War and Its Aftermath. Her article, "The Rise and Fall of a Racist Monument: the Good Darky, National Geographic Magazine, and Civil Rights Activism" is forthcoming in the journal Nineteenth-Century Contexts. Dr. Daugherty also serves on the Public Art Oversight Committee of the Memphis Urban Art Commission, in which capacity she has firsthand experience in the bureaucratic creation of public art. The following list includes past COEs: Pamela Nunn, 2016-17, U of Canterbury, Independent, Feminist Art Celeste Bernier, 2014-15, U of Nottingham, African Diaspora Yasser Tabbaa, 2013-14, Independent, Islamic Edward Shanken, 2012-13, Independent, New Media Julie McGee, 2011-12, U of Delaware, African Diaspora, UDaily Mikelle Smith Omari-Tunkara, Spring 2010 and 2010-2011, U of Arizona, African Diaspora Katherine Hoffmann, Spring 2009, St. Anselm, Photography Till-Holger Borchert, 2007-2008, Bruges Museum, Renaissance Nigel Strudwick, 2006-2007, British Museum, Egyptian Kenneth Haltman, 2005-2006, U of Oklahoma, American Francesco Tiradritti, 2004-2005, U of Naples, Egyptian Joan Holladay, 2003-2004, UT Austin, Medieval Christopher Reed, 2002-2003, Penn State, Gender Studies Doris Srinivasan, 2001-2002, Independent, India Paula Gerson, 2000-2001, FSU, Medieval Michael Weaver, Spring 2000, Oxford, Photography Christopher Johns, 1997-1998, Vanderbilt, 18th-19th Century Marcia Kupfer, 1996-1997, Ohio State, Medieval *Andrew Ladis, 1995-1996, UGA, Renaissance *Mary Sheriff, 1994-1995, UNC, 18th Century Bruce Cole Spring, 1994, Renaissance Center, Am.Revolution Norman Land, 1992-1993, Un Mo., Columbia, Renaissance Michael Weaver Fall, 1991 Oxford University, Photography Babatunde Lawal, 1990-1991, VCU, African Art *deceased Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/30/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.