Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Outdoor Program Outdoor Program Office and Rental Center Hours Summer Session: Beginning May 16, 2022 | 12:00 pm - 6:00 pm, M-F | Closed Weekends Announcements We have Wilderness Medicine course offerings currently open. To learn more, visit our Wilderness Medicine page. Mission Statement As part of the Campus Recreation Department, the Outdoor Program helps recruit and retain students, faculty and staff by providing a wide range of inclusive, safe, reasonably-priced outdoor programs and services to the UW community. We expose individuals to the natural environment, provide skill and leadership development opportunities, and facilitate interactions and fun. About the Outdoor Program Trips, Clinics, & Programs Schedule & Registration Wilderness Medicine Services Climbing Wall Rental Center Bike Library Custom Programs Outdoor Leadership Opportunities Outdoor Leadership Development Series UW Credit for NOLS Courses Resources Links and Maps Contact Us Outdoor Program Room 141, Half Acre Recreation and Wellness Center Dept. 3604 1000 E University Ave Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: 307-766-2402 Email: op@uwyo.edu The UW Outdoor Program is an authorized permit holder of the US Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the National Park Service. “We collectively acknowledge that the University of Wyoming occupies the ancestral and traditional lands of the Cheyenne, Arapaho, Crow, and Shoshone Indigenous peoples along with other Native tribes who call the Great Basin and Rocky Mountain region home. We recognize, support, and advocate alongside Indigenous individuals and communities who live here now, and with those forcibly removed from their Homelands.” -ASUW Senate Bill #2699 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility