Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Election aftermath How can the United States improve the public health response to the pandemic with new or existing leadership? How will the new administration tackle public health challenges more broadly? Join Dean Ashish and group of national and international experts as they unpack how the US election results will influence public health in 2021 and beyond. Wednesday, November 11, 2020 Public Health in the World In this discussion we will take a closer look at how the US election will impact international relations, and how we navigate the changing landscape of global health. This event is co-sponsored by the School of Public Health and the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Watch here: Thursday, November 5, 2020 Public Health in the U.S. Dean Jha and a panel of experts take stock of how the election outcome will impact public health, the economy, and health disparities in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic across the United States. Watch here: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 Post Election Day Mindfulness Session 11:00 am Virtual You are invited to come together with the Brown community to practice and explore how mindfulness might support you in such complex and volatile times. Registration is closed Feeling Stress about the 2020 Election? People on both sides of the political divide may find themselves feeling tense or anxious as the election approaches on top of an already stress-ridden landscape. To support our community, we have curated resources from Brown and beyond that help you navigate through this unpredictable time. Community Support Resources School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top