Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Cleveland Home Connect Chapters Ohio Cleveland Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus The Cleveland Chapter has over 1000 alumni, parents, and friends. The chapter enjoys gathering for game watches, socials, community service events, and more. If you have any ideas you'd like to share for specific events or if you'd like to become more involved in the chapter, please reach out to us! We look forward to connecting with you. 1,115 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us Cleveland Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Melissa Koski Carney '07 Lives in: Cleveland Heights, Ohio Major: Communications Occupation: Vice President, Marketing Communications Agency Professional Favorite BC Memory: The night before graduation, several members of our graduating class stayed up all night to watch the sun rise. I'll never forget staying up, waiting for the sun to come up with the other ladies in my Mod, my friends, and my boyfriend. We brought blankets and pillows and camped out on the top of the garage to watch what ended up being a beautiful sunrise on our last day on campus. Why did you get involved in your local chapter?: Moving to Cleveland after graduation, I was looking for a way to meet new friends and network. To help with this, I immediately connected with the local Boston College chapter and started attending events. It was a great way to meet new people, and I enjoyed getting involved and helping connect with other local alumni. I love helping organize the chapter's service event(s) and annual Adopt a Family program. It's great to give back to the local Cleveland community, while also staying connected to my alma mater. What are your local favorites in your city?: Exploring the MetroParks, visiting the zoo with my two kids, running/walking along Shaker Lakes, and running in local races like the Cleveland half marathon. Fun Fact: I'm originally from Upstate New York. After graduating from BC, I moved to Cleveland, knowing only one person at the time. I fell in love with the city. I'm married to my college sweetheart (fellow BC '07 classmate) and we have two kids. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Taylor Mooney '17 Contact: taylor.mooney@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok