Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now A Great Place to Live and Learn SMU Guildhall is located in the brand new, state-of-the-art Gerald J. Ford Hall for Research and Innovation, which was specially designed to optimize our unique, proven curriculum and industry-driven pedagogy in an environment that mirrors a real game studio. The Dallas metroplex is recognized as one of the top places in the United States to live, work, learn, and play. It is the nation's fourth-largest metropolitan area, home to about 6.5 million people, and is one of the nation’s leading centers for business, innovation, culture and service. The Dallas area is also one of the birth places of the video game industry and is home to over 50 game studios, app developers and digital technology companies and a vibrant game development community. Schedule a Visit Ford Hall & the SMU Dallas Campus Our Location: 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306, Dallas, TX 75275 Administrative hours of operation: M-F 9:00am-5:00pm The Gerald J. Ford Hall for Research and Innovation ignites the future of research and education at SMU. The new 50,000-square foot interdisciplinary research hub equips faculty, students and industry partners with tools and resources to collaborate, solve complex problems and power new enterprises. Ford Hall is located on SMU’s main campus at the corner of McFarlin Boulevard and Airline Road. Our game studio environment: At SMU Guildhall, students work in the style and pace of the video game industry, and Ford Hall was specially designed as a studio environment modeled after the best game studios around the country. Our classrooms offer state-of-the-art high-tech design and function, and our student project studios mirror the look, feel, and functionality of real game studio spaces. Students are able to enjoy an extensive resource library of technology, software and equipment, audio, and games, as well as SMU's many luxuries and resources, including the student library, dining spaces, the Deason Innovation Gym (DIG), the SMU Teacher Development Studio (TDS), and one of the fastest academic supercomputers in the nation—ManeFrame II—located in the SMU data center. Learn More About Our Facilities & Campus Resources What’s Nearby? You can find ample affordable housing, top restaurants, game studios, and great shopping just steps away from the SMU campus. Learn More About Our Community Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x