Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Health, environment and imaging are focus of this year’s Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund grants Catherine Zandonella, Office of the Dean for Research April 28, 2022, 9:30 a.m. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications New research endeavors with potential benefits for health, the environment, and molecular imaging have been awarded support from the Eric and Wendy Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund. The fund spurs the exploration of bold new ideas that can accelerate progress on major challenges in science and engineering, pioneer new discoveries, and transform entire fields of inquiry. The projects were selected based on their capacity to lead to significant advances in the discovery or implementation of transformative technology. “The Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund supports projects that have the power to lead to profound scientific discoveries and technological innovations,” said Dean for Research Pablo Debenedetti, the Class of 1950 Professor in Engineering and Applied Science and professor of chemical and biological engineering. "This year’s projects address scientific, technical and societal challenges by developing key capabilities -- in genomic editing, sustainable construction materials and molecular imaging -- that possess substantial potential for impacting society at large." The fund was created through support from Eric Schmidt, the former chief executive officer of Google and former executive chairman of Alphabet Inc., Google’s parent company, and Wendy Schmidt, a businesswoman and philanthropist. Eric Schmidt earned his bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from Princeton in 1976 and served as a Princeton trustee from 2004 to 2008. Sujit Datta, assistant professor of chemical and biological engineering, Emily Davidson, assistant professor of chemical and biological engineering; and Reza Moini, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering. Photo by Kevin Birch The funding supports the development of graduate students and postdoctoral researchers, and provides for equipment, materials and supplies, and prototypes. Since its creation in 2009, the fund has supported 30 research projects at Princeton. Controlling flooding by letting the water soak in Three faculty members aim to reduce urban flooding by developing a new concrete-like material that absorbs rainwater and then releases it slowly back to the environment. According to the team -- co-led by Reza Moini, assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering, Emily Davidson, assistant professor of chemical and biological engineering, and Sujit Datta, assistant professor of chemical and biological engineering -- the new material could be used in sidewalks, roads and other sections of the urban landscape. The new material’s architecture will consist of large and small pores arranged to optimize both water uptake and mechanical robustness. The intended result will be a widely scalable concrete-like material that can benefit groundwater recharge, reduce flooding and potentially transform how urban landscapes are constructed. Britt Adamson, assistant professor of molecular biology and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics; and Eszter Posfai, assistant professor of molecular biology. Photo by Kevin Birch Error-free genome editing for modeling diseases With the goal of understanding the genetic basis of human diseases, two faculty members will lead a project to develop more efficient and accurate approaches to genome engineering in mice. The team — co-led by Britt Adamson, assistant professor of molecular biology and the Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics, and Eszter Posfai, assistant professor of molecular biology — will work with the CRISPR-Cas system, which enables researchers to insert, delete or replace segments of a gene or combination of genes. The team will apply recent technical advances to generate new mouse models of human diseases, with the goal of accelerating biomedical research in many areas of human health. Herschel Rabitz, the Charles Phelps Smyth '16 *17 Professor of Chemistry; Martin Jonikas, associate professor of molecular biology; and Alexei Goun, professional specialist in chemistry. Photo by Kevin Birch Breaking through barriers in molecular imaging This project brings together researchers from molecular biology and chemistry to create an imaging system to identify the precise locations of molecules in living cells. The team — consisting of Martin Jonikas, associate professor of molecular biology, Alexei Goun, professional specialist in chemistry, and Herschel Rabitz, the Charles Phelps Smyth '16 *17 Professor of Chemistry — intends to build a multi-step imaging system that maps the locations of individual molecules. They’ll employ the system to investigate one of the most important molecules to society, carbon dioxide, with a focus on how plant cells take up carbon dioxide and remove it from the atmosphere. The team expects that the technology will be able to track molecules in their native environments, aiding research in areas from medicine to geosciences. Related Stories Three innovative projects selected to receive funding from the Schmidt Transformative Technology Fund Read more Princeton accelerates innovation through funding of six technologies with potential for societal impact Read more Schmidt fund awarded to two transformative bioengineering projects Read more Quantum science, particle physics and nanoscale motors awarded support from Eric and Wendy Schmidt Transformative Tech Fund Read more DataX is funding new AI research projects at Princeton, across disciplines Read more Schmidt DataX Fund supports research projects that harness data science to speed up discovery Read more Schmidt Fund awards go to projects with transformative potential Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice