Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Next Steps Next Steps My Account Cost + Aid FAFSA OneApp Honors Program Learning Communities Refund Policy What’s next on your adventure? Congratulations on your offer to Iowa State. On this adventure, you’ll be challenged but walk away with the tools to make a meaningful impact in your community and the world. Whether you're ready to accept your offer or just want to check out your housing options, this is the place to start. Accept Your Offer of Admission To accept your offer of admission, you will need to pay your acceptance fee online by credit card. To accept online, you will need the log in to MyAccount using the account you established when you applied to Iowa State. Accept your offer online If you prefer to return your admissions acceptance form by mail, rather than using the online method, print the acceptance form from the link provided below. After you complete the form, mail it to the Office of Admissions with a check or money order made payable to Iowa State University. Print acceptance form Explore Your Housing Options Learn about living options in residence halls, university apartments, and fraternities and sororities; the priority system for assigning university housing; and the advantages of accepting your offer of admission as early as possible. To reserve space in university residence halls or apartments, you will need to submit a university housing contract after you accept your offer of admission. If you have accepted your offer of admission, paid your acceptance fee, and decided you want to live in university residence halls or apartments, you can complete your housing contract online. This contract does not apply to sororities, fraternities, or off-campus (non-university) housing. Complete your housing contract High School Students: Review Senior Year Financial Aid Timeline July Apply for admission as soon as possible. Fall semester Apply for Iowa State scholarships by January 10. October File the FAFSA prior to January 3. Iowa State's code is 001869. February Receive and review your financial aid award letter. April Explore monthly payment plans. May Finalize your decision. May 1 is the deadline to cancel admission. Prepare for Orientation Check your inbox in March for orientation information. Submit Your Transcripts Freshman Students Once you have graduated from high school: Contact your high school to request an official copy of your final transcript be sent to Iowa State. Iowa State is test-optional for freshman applicants. Students may choose whether they wish to self-report their ACT/SAT scores when they apply for admission. If you are submitting your scores, request your ACT or SAT scores be sent to Iowa State. These scores must be sent directly from the testing agency or be included on your official final high school transcript. If you have already completed or will complete college courses prior to entering Iowa State, request an official copy of your college transcript(s) be sent to our office as soon as your coursework is complete. Transfer Students Request an official copy of your college transcript(s) be sent to our office as soon as your coursework is complete. Submit transcripts to: etranscript@iastate.edu or Iowa State University Office of Admissions 100 Enrollment Services Center 2433 Union Drive Ames, IA 50011-2042 Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...