Directory Maps Contact Us AccessUH UH Home Home About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Programs MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance (STEM) MS Global Energy Leadership MS MIS (STEM) MS Marketing Online MS Management & Leadership MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management (STEM) Online Doctoral Office of Executive Development The Bauer Mini-MBA Earn a Certificate Custom Programs Centers Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship (WCE) Real Estate Program Stephen Stagner Sales Excellence Institute (SEI) Gutierrez Energy Management Institute (GEMI) AIM Center for Investment Management (ACIM) Decision Sciences Institute Center for Economic Inclusion Institute for Health Care Marketing (IHCM) Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) UH Small Business Development Center Student Success Advising Emerging Leaders Academic Success Program Leadership & Engagement Bauer Honors RED Labs Learning Abroad Departments Accountancy & Taxation Decision & Information Sciences Finance Management & Leadership Marketing & Entrepreneurship Offices Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board Strategic Initiatives 2020-2025 Strategic Plan AI & Digital Society Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative BauerMerch.com Contact Us Invest Now Home Menu The Cyvia and Melvyn Wolff Center for Entrepreneurship RED Labs Summer Accelerator Program Apply to Class 10 RED Labs Summer Accelerator Program is a 12 week program designed to help teams of UH students, faculty and recent alumni who have a startup idea. The teams spend the summer attending startup-focused curriculum sessions, getting advice from startup founders and community mentors, and working on their startup. The program then culminates with the Bayou Startup Showcase, a demo day where RED Labs teams pitch their idea in front of the Houston Startup community. What should you expect: Twelve weeks of curriculum focused on entrepreneurship One on one mentorship for you and your team Legal office hours to advise on legal issues including intellectual property and incorporation. A joint cohort with Rice University’s startup up accelerator, OwlSpark A demo day to launch your business for the Houston community What do you need to apply: An idea for a tech startup. Business ideas should be tech-focused or scale with technology -- meaning it shouldn’t be a restaurant or consulting company - those need more people or infrastructure to scale. A validated customer. Team should have already started customer discovery on their business idea and validated the market. Need help with this? Check out some of our classes on tech startups (Intro to Tech Entrepreneurship and the Pre-Accelerator). The skills to build. We look for teams that can build their startup idea. Meaning, if you have an app idea, someone on your team can build the app or your team can pay someone to develop the app. This doesn’t mean that you have to finish building over the summer, just that you are able to build it. Flexibility and coachability. All teams will receive a lot of feedback throughout the summer and being flexible, learning from customers and mentors and being willing to pivot makes for an ideal RED Labs team. Commitment. Ultimately we want teams who are excited about pursuing their startup idea and willing to put in the time and effort over the summer to launch the idea. How to apply: Applications for Class 10 are now open! Submit an application here. Admissions Process: Applications Open: Now! Applicants Interviews: March through April Application Closes: April 1, 2022 Acceptance Letters: April 7, 2022 Program Begins: Late May 2022 (date TBD). The program begins in May and culminates with the Bayou Startup Showcase in early August. Curious about the Bayou Startup Showcase, click on the links below to watch previous classes pitch. Class 3 (Summer 2015) Class 4 (Summer 2016) Class 5 (Summer 2017) Class 6 (Summer 2018) Class 7 (Summer 2019) Class 8 (Summer 2020) Class 9 (Summer 2021) FAQs: Does everyone on my team need to be associated with the University of Houston? No. To be eligible for RED Labs Summer Accelerator, you only need one team member that is either a current student at UH, a current faculty member at UH, or a recent alumni of UH (graduated in the last year). The rest of the team can be composed of whoever you need to get the job done. How much does RED Labs Summer Accelerator cost? It’s free! That said, there is an *optional* three credit hour course associated with it (ENTR 4394/7394) and if you need those credits, you can enroll. If you are enrolled in the class, you do have to pay for the associated credit hours. What exactly is the Bayou Startup Showcase? The Bayou Startup Showcase is a demo day where RED Labs and OwlSpark founders deliver a 4 minute pitch to the startup community. Click on the links below to watch previous Bayou Startup Showcases. Can I apply as a solo founder? Yes, you can still apply as a solo founder. You still have to have all the requirements expected from the startups, and there is generally a greater commitment required from the founder. We do find that teams are generally more successful with more than one founder on the team, but it is very possible to be a successful solo founder. What’s the time commitment? We generally have about 6-7 hours of curriculum, sessions and mentorship scheduled each week. That said, this program is intended to provide resources and support you as you launch your startup. You should expect to spend a significant amount of time outside of that scheduled time working on building your minimum viable product, talking to customers and launching your business. Home BBA in Entrepreneurship History & Overview Awards & Recognition Curriculum & Enrichment Outreach Application Entrepreneurship Classes & Certificates Entrepreneurship Classes Entrepreneurship Certificates Programs RED Labs Summer Accelerator RED Launch Summer Accelerator Femtech(+) Innovation Challenge Battle of the Classes Wolffest Events & Media Upcoming Events Latest News Videos & Photos People Faculty & Staff Mentors Students Alumni Contact Us 713-743-4752 wce@uh.edu Physical Address: Insperity Classroom & Business Building, Ste. 536 4242 Martin Luther King Boulevard. Houston, TX 77204-6021 Mailing Address: C. T. Bauer College of Business Wolff Center For Entrepreneurship 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard Houston, TX 77204-6021 Entrepreneurship Major Academic Advisor: Asha Thomas Melcher Hall, Room 262 713-743-8963 asha@uh.edu Follow Us: Main Navigation Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now Home Bauer Home Page About Prospective Students Current Students Corporate Resources Parents Alumni Visitors Staff Resources Faculty & Research Academics Undergraduate MBA & Graduate Online Doctoral Executive Development Centers Advising Departments Office of Digital Learning Office of Experiential Learning Office of Global Initiatives Apply for Scholarships Apply to UH Career Center Students Alumni Employers News & Events News Center Events Calendar Latest News Where Awesome Happens Inside Bauer Administration Office of the Dean Bauer College Board 2020-2025 Strategic Plan Digital Learning Experiential Learning Global Initiatives Inclusive Leadership Bauer Division of Technology Leadership & Engagement Bauer Excellence Scholars Office of Communications Invest in Bauer Invest in Bauer Home Your Investment How to Invest The Bauer Excellence Initiative Contact Us Invest Now × Undergraduate Prospective Students Bachelor of Business Administration Academic Advising Graduate & Doctoral Full-Time MBA Professional MBA Executive MBA MS Accountancy MS Business Analytics (STEM) MS Entrepreneurship MS Finance MS Global Energy Leadership MS Management Information Systems Online MS Management & Leadership MS Marketing MS Sales Leadership MS Supply Chain Management Doctoral Executive Comprehensive Leadership Programs Open Enrollment Programs Custom Programs Student Success Scholarships Leadership Initiatives Bauer Honors Learning Abroad Success Stories Career Services Rockwell Career Center Career Gateway Our Campus UH System Emergency Information Privacy and Policies Jobs at UH About Bauer Our Message Our Name Our Story Our Faculty Our Students Our Learning Goals Our Rankings Our Mission Bauer College Board Faculty & Staff Directory BauerConnect (SharePoint Intranet) Staff Resources Room Reservations Social Media Contact Us suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Contact Us Directions & Parking C. T. Bauer College of Business 4250 Martin Luther King Boulevard, Room 334, Houston, Texas 77204-6021. (713) 743-2255 suggestions@bauer.uh.edu Last modified on 07 December 2021 at 10:54am ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies