COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Innovation Design, Master's Master'sInnovation Design All Programs College of Innovation and Design The Master in Innovation Design (MID) from Wichita State merges arts, science, and technology curricula, creating opportunities for students and faculty to collaborate across WSU’s colleges. The MID program nurtures students’ design-thinking skills, building the ability to develop creative solutions, communicate effectively, apply entrepreneurial principals and develop prototypes. Learn how Innovation Design is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Master of Innovation Design program, you must first be admitted to the WSU Grad School. For more information, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Student uses drone imaging for hurricane relief effort in Texas As a Master of Innovation Design student, you can create products that will help others. James Balman used software he developed to make a difference for victims of Hurricane Harvey in Texas. His neural image technology helped determine damage to structures quickly and safely, allowing for a faster appraisal and letting residents get the insurance coverage they needed to start over. Curriculum The MID degree requires the completion of a plan of study approved by the student’s advisor which must be filed within the first 12 credit hours of graduate coursework. Two options are available: The thesis option requires a minimum of 24 credit hours of coursework plus a minimum of six credit hours of thesis The directed project option requires a minimum of 30 credit hours of coursework plus a minimum of three credit hours of directed project View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Learning and Instructional Design (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©