Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Biomedical Engineering Home About Future Students Current Students Research Contact Us Accreditation Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Brief history Degree programs Faculty & Research Facilities Take Action Biomedical Engineering Degrees Herff College of Engineering Contact Us Home Biomedical Engineering About Spring 2021 BME Senior Design Winners Spring 2021 BME Senior Design Team Winners Read below for the winning teams for Spring 2021- a three way tie. Congratulations Team Babysitters The Babysitters from left to right: Julia Byrd, Brian Howell, Nancy Pont Briant, Madison Brown and Anna Olberding. Team advisors (not pictured): Ms Susan Anderson PTA, Lebonheur Children’s Hospital From Team Babysitters: Our device was created for a three year old child with spina bifida to assist in independent movement from a laying position to an up-right sitting position. Device is durable, lightweight but stable and can accommodate a range of mobility needs. Once our prototype was built and we started sharing our design, many professionals in the medical field identified other populations that our device could help, such as the elderly or pregnant patients. Recognizing all of the other populations we could assist with our design helped us realize that biomedical engineers can have a positive impact on society and significantly improve the lives of others. We thoroughly enjoyed this project and working with our advisor Ms. Susan Anderson, PTA, Lebonheur Children’s Hospital. Congratulations Team Biotech Tools Team members: William Guyton, Ian Johnson, Benjamin Silberberg and Tifahri Yusuf Team Advisor: Jolieke van Oosterwijk, PhD, US Biologics, Memphis, TN. Problem Statement: Excision of DNA bands from agarose gels with a scalpel is a tedious and imprecise method, complicating downstream processing. The use of a wall-outlet UV or blue light source is bulky and immobile, creating unnecessary exposure to skin and eyes. From Team Biotech Tools: We are so excited to be selected for first place! This picture above displays the different design iterations we created before reaching our most current design, the Queen Cutter, (as seen on the far right). Thank you to our mentor/sponsor Dr. Jolieke van Oosterwijk, US Biologic. Congratulations Team Feet Team members: Alexis Pellerin, Tyler Garvey, Jalil Jackson and Phuong Khau Team Advisor: Bernard Grisoni, PhD, External BME Professor, University of Memphis Problem Statement: Patients with diabetes may experience foot ulcers that can result in an amputation. The Total Contact Cast is the current gold standard but makes daily wound cleaning challenging, is relatively expensive, and restricts mobility. From Team Feet: We enjoyed learning the different steps and methods used to create a product including manufacturing, labeling, packaging, and designing a product virtually via computer aided design. The team treated the process very seriously as if designing our own product that could eventually be patented. Thank you to our mentor/sponsor Dr. Bernard Grisoni, University of Memphis. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.