Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology School of Physics Menu Close About Mission Programs Organizations Employment Opportunities Faculty Position - Tenured/Tenured-Track Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics History Directions Guest Travel Contact Us Diversity Academics Courses Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Programs Research Research Activities Centers Undergraduate Research Conferences & Symposia People Professors Adjunct Faculty Professors of Practice Professors Emeriti Research Scientists Academic Professionals Postdoctoral Researchers Graduate Students Staff Awards and Honors In Remembrance News & Events Upcoming Events Events Archive News Archive Video Archive 2020 Speaker Series Alumni Alumni News & Events Giving Stories Apply Contact Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Google Plus LinkedIn Flickr YouTube Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here Home » Research » Research Activities » Research Research Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics The Atomic, Molecular and Optical physics (AMO) group at Georgia Tech is a strong and diverse group that has made pioneering contributions in the areas of ultracold atomic physics, quantum degenerate gases, quantum optics, quantum information, ultrafast atomic physics and ultrafast laser metrology. In the last few decades, advances in laser technology and the invention of laser cooling and trapping techniques for atoms and molecules have opened entirely new, rapidly expanding frontiers of AMO science. These developments have been recognized by 4 recent Nobel prizes: laser-cooling and trapping (1997), Bose-Einstein condensations (2001), optical clocks (2005) and quantum control of ions and cavity QED (2012). These advances and inventions have provided dramatically more powerful tools for the investigation of long-standing problems in AMO science, including foundational questions in quantum mechanics, studies of atom-light interactions, precision tests of fundamental physics and symmetries (including searches for electric dipole moments, g-2, etc.), and frequency and length and magnetic field metrology. In addition, these advances have led to new areas of research including the investigations of quantum degenerate gases, quantum information and computing, and ultrafast phenomena in atoms and molecules. Technological applications that derive from work in atomic physics include precision sensors for inertial sensing and navigation, magnetic and electric field sensing, atomic clocks and emerging quantum technologies including quantum information processors and quantum communication networks. Additionally, AMO science contributes to investigations in other areas of physics including tests of general relativity, fundamental symmetries of the Standard Model and many-body physics including condensed matter and nuclear physics. Ultra-cold atoms in particular provide new tools to construct quantum simulators to investigate important problems in condensed matter physics including exotic magnetic order thought to arise in a wide variety of frustrated magnetic materials and unconventional superconductors. Altogether, these advances have been truly transformative for the field of AMO science and have led to a significant expansion of AMO research programs world-wide. The Georgia Tech group has provided many impactful contributions to the field and enjoys a strong reputation including being ranked as one of the top 15 AMO departments in the nation in the 2005 US News and World Report surveys. Faculty Members: Name Research Interests Research Website Michael Chapman Contemporary quantum mechanics, manipulating the quantum behavior of single atoms and photons Atom Trapping & Quantum Computing Laboratory Website Brian Kennedy theoretical physics, quantum optics, atomic physics Recent research projects include investigations of the physics of quantum memories and quantum... Colin V Parker Quantum simulation of strongly correlated electron systems using ultracold atoms. Atomic defects in solid state media. Parker Lab Homepage Michael Pustilnik Transport and correlations in low-dimensional quantum systems Chandra Raman Bose-Einstein condensation and quantum atomic sensors My group has two thrusts. In one effort we utilize sophisticated tools to cool atoms to... Raman Lab Webpage Carlos Sa de Melo Theoretical condensed matter and ultra-cold atomic and molecular physics: Superconductors, quantum magnets, superfluids and Bose-Einstein condensates... Rick Trebino The development of more powerful devices for manipulating and measuring potentially very complex light with ultrafast variations. Over 200... FROG Other Research Areas Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter and Quantum Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum School of Physics Resources Guest Travel Academics Current Courses Course Catalog Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Apply now! About the School Contact Information Administration Committees History Giving to the School School of Physics Resources Job Opportunities Research Astrophysics, Astroparticles, & Gravitation Atomic, Molecular, & Optical Physics Condensed Matter & Materials Non-linear Physics Physics of Living Systems Soft Matter Undergraduate Research School of Physics Resources Other Resources Computer Support Information Security Policy On-campus Signage Room Request Safety Committees Staff: Who does what? School of Physics Georgia Institute of Technology 837 State Street Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0430 Phone: (404) 894-5201 Fax: (404) 894-9958 Site Map Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology