Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>About Us>Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Psychology Interns Sean Roche Psychology Intern Graduate Program: Loma Linda University Clinical Psychology Doctoral Program Professional interests: Trauma, PTSD, emotional awareness, identity development, anxiety management, ADHD, self-love and self-forgiveness. Personal Interests: Ukuleles, punk rock, punk rock on ukuleles, Star Wars, baseball and Broadway musicals. Favorite Quote: “People will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.” -Maya Angelou Ruina Tu Psychology Intern Graduate Program: Fuller Graduate School of Psychology, Pasadena, CA Professional Interests: Depression, anxiety, trauma, spirituality, Internal Family System (IFS), Jung, culture, neuro-assessment, neurodevelopmental disorders (autism and ADHD), contemplative tradition Personal Interests: a lock-down painter (watercolor, acrylic painting), Chinese poetry, haiku Favorite Quote: Feelings that go unacknowledged are likely to be acted out. Nancy McWilliams Caroliina Ying Psychology Intern Graduate Program: Texas A&M University Counseling Psychology PhD Program Professional Interests: Relational concerns, identity and self-image, anxiety, behavioral patterns, multicultural considerations, holistic health Personal Interests: Nature adventures, worship, catching up with friends Graduate Trainees Aaron Finley Psychology Practicum Trainee Graduate Program: Baylor University Clinical Psychology Program Professional Interests: Anxiety and mood disorders, positive psychology, identity development, health psychology, Self-efficacy, flow Personal Interests: Playing live music and recording; ceramics and sculpture Favorite Quote: “A path is made by walking on it.” - Zhuang Zhou Connor Kelley Psychology Practicum Trainee Graduate Program: Baylor University Clinical Psychology Program Professional Interests: Mind-body interventions, trauma and recovery, post-traumatic growth, health psychology, positive psychology, LGBTQ+ affirmative psychotherapy, and multicultural concerns. Favorite Baylor tradition: The Baylor Line (just don’t fall!!) Favorite quote: “It clearly seems that God is quite comfortable with immense diversity. We have a much harder time with it, preferring uniformity and conformity instead.” -Richard Rohr Amanda Knox Social Work Intern Graduate Program: Diana Garland School of Social Work Professional Interests: Trauma, Religion and Spirituality, Homelessness, At-risk Youth, Resilience, Mental Health of College Students Favorite Bible Verse: "Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the LORD, knowing that in the LORD your labor is not in vain." 1 Corinthians 15:58 Ashley Nguyen Psychology Practicum Trainee Graduate Program: Baylor University Clinical Psychology Program Professional Interests: Relationship conflict, attachment- based anxiety, self-destructive behaviors and chronic depression,and multicultural concerns. Favorite Quote:“Through compassion it is possible to recognize that the craving for love that people feel resides also in our own hearts [and] that the cruelty the world knows all too well is also rooted in our own impulses.- Henri J.M. Nouwen Nicholas Revilla Counseling Intern Graduate Program: University of Mary Hardin-Baylor Clinical Mental Health Counseling Program Professional Interests: Working with individuals to understand identity, relationships, and our past in order to create a more meaningful present. Favorite Quote: “Anything that’s human is mentionable, and anything that is mentionable can be more manageable. When we can talk about our feelings, they become less overwhelming, less upsetting, and less scary.” — Fred Rogers Brad Sievers Psychology Practicum Trainee Graduate Program: Baylor University Clinical Psychology Program Professional Interests: Psychotherapy; mental health education and advocacy Research Interests: Anxiety disorders and OCD, courage Favorite Quote: It is not the critic who counts; not the [person] who points out how the strong [person] stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the [person] who is actually in the arena…” – Theodore Roosevelt Elli Stuk Social Work Intern Graduate Program: Diana Garland School of Social Work Professional Interests: My name is Elli Stuk and I am a first year graduate student here at Baylor. I received my undergraduate degree in psychology and sociology from Hope College. I hope to obtain my MSW and eventually work in child welfare or with young adults in some capacity. I am committed to making people feel respected and appreciated through giving them the necessary tools and resources to have the best life possible. About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health