Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ West Dallas STEM School Simmons About Simmons West Dallas STEM School Key Participants' Perspectives Dean Knight's Interview Project Milestones and Videos The Toyota USA Foundation, SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development, and Dallas ISD have formed a partnership to develop a PreK-8th grade STEM-focused school in the Pinkston Feeder Pattern in the West Dallas 75212 ZIP Code area. Renovation of the current Pinkston High School facilities (2200 Dennison Street) will transform the campus into the STEM-focused School, and Pinkston High School will relocate. The partnership will provide professional development, design of a STEM curriculum, coordination of community-based services, and comprehensive research and evaluation. Dallas ISD will support all building, staffing and operational needs of the new School. The Toyota Foundation awarded a sizable grant to the Simmons School in support of the West Dallas STEM School project in June 2018 and followed it with a second and larger grant in August 2021. As curricular and building plans get formulated for the new West Dallas STEM School, L.G. Pinkston High School students and teacher Elizabeth Blue-Allen talk about the need for a STEM school in their community. Dallas ISD's new, pre-K through 8 grade school is created in partnership with Toyota USA Foundation and Southern Methodist University. Goals Toyota, Dallas ISD, and SMU Simmons are committed to providing curricula and academic support services that will prepare students for college and the workforce and to establishing a model that can be replicated for the benefit of other schools and communities. The School will feature an evidence-based, industry-informed STEM curriculum, as well as targeted, community-embedded and co-located wraparound services such as summer and afterschool programming, socio-emotional support for students, and parenting support for families. The partnership will foster four key areas of development: Curriculum Development: STEM, project-based and industry-informed Professional Development: Support all aspects of PD programming for in- and out-of-school educators and providers Community Development: Increase capacities of community-based providers Model Development: Research and evaluation to support a replicable model The Planning Process SMU Simmons School faculty and academicians will lead a comprehensive and collaborative planning process over a 3-year period beginning in fall 2018. Their work will center on equitable inclusion and rigorous applied research. Multiple workgroups representing key stakeholders will collaborate in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of the broad initiative. The workgroups will represent practitioners and academic experts in educational pedagogy, STEM, equity, evaluation and community science, social services for students and families, industry, and workforce readiness. The planning process will be anchored by the co-development of a full-scale implementation and valuation plan that will specify curriculum components, professional development and implementation needs, a research agenda, a formative and summative evaluation plan with specified metrics, and reporting timelines. Timeline 2018-21: Laying the Groundwork The curriculum development, professional development, and campus design process will begin in 2018. Community relationships will be cultivated, and the principal partners will author a comprehensive implementation and evaluation plan that will guide the duration of the work. Simmons will work with DISD to provide STEM activities for the other elementary schools in the area. 2021 and Beyond The School will pilot select STEM programs in 2020-21. West Dallas STEM School WDSS Newsletters Media Coverage Press Releases WDSS Development Team Project Timeline Project Milestones and Videos Public School Choice Application STEM Infographic Project FAQs/Preguntas Frecuentes School Announcement Event Cohort I Application Contact Us Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-STEM (7836) WestDallasSTEM@SMU.EDU Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter