Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Research Home About Research For Researchers For Industry Contact Us Division of Research Animal Resources Business Affairs Conflict of Interest Export Controls Grants and Contracts Administration Industry Contracts Postdoctoral Affairs Research Compliance Research Development Research Policies Research Safety Sponsored Programs Technology Transfer (CURF) Organizational Chart Related Links 2019 Research Symposium Centers and Institutes Core Facilities Decipher Magazine Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University Faculty Insight Foundation Relations Graduate School Limited Submissions R-Initiatives Research Advisory Board Main Content Clemson University Faculty Insight Overview Faculty Insight empowers faculty to uncover funding opportunities and identify subject matter experts at Clemson and provides them with a comprehensive, editable pre-populated research profile. Faculty Insight replaces the previous Research Expertise Discovery Suite (REDS) with new features. It was developed in partnership with Academic Analytics and reflects the campus-wide need for increased data transparency and tools to foster interdisciplinary collaboration. This next generation REDS site contains data from multiple sources for a more accurate and complete view of Clemson research. In addition to being pre-populated with Academic Analytics data, the site has been augmented with grant data from Clemson’s Office of Sponsored Programs, and faculty now have an easy interface with which to edit their own profiles, including adding new activity and editing existing activity. In addition to discovering institutional expertise, Faculty Insight provides targeted funding opportunities for specific faculty and by keyword search. Faculty profile keywords are matched to funding opportunity data from a third-party funding database. Grant opportunities are updated daily and contain roughly 40,000 open funding opportunities from more than 10,000 public and private entities. Faculty Insight Academic Analytics is receptive to feedback on this product and will be rolling out enhancements based on this feedback in the coming year. Frequently Asked Questions A list of Faculty Insight Frequently Asked Questions can be found here. Launch Faculty Insight Quick Tips: Searching with multiple words, such as stellar lithium, will identify Clemson faculty associated with the titles and abstracts of books, articles, or conference proceedings containing stellar OR lithium Use quotation marks to create an AND search (i.e. "stellar lithium"). More extensive information on search queries can be found here When the collaboration map appears, click the "Collaboration Map Key" link in the top-left menu to view a legend for the map. You can move the map in any direction by left-clicking the map, dragging, and dropping (similar Google Maps). You can zoom in or out by whatever means you use to scroll. Academic Analytics is a supplier of data and analytics related to faculty research in recognized disciplinary fields. Beyond data, Academic Analytics allows custom comparisons of activity and productivity at the University, department, academic program, and faculty levels. Note: At the time of portal release, Clemson faculty included are those in the Academic Analytics 2014 dataset. Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram