Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Student Academic Success Programs Services Services Academic Counseling Tutoring Writing Center Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Learning Skills Courses Learning Strategies Workshops Academic Center for Excellence Academic Development of Student-Athletes Pre-Major Probation FAQs FAQs Transitioning to life at SMU About About People Mission and Goals Give ☰ SAES Academic Support Student Academic Success Programs Student Academic Success Programs Student Academic Success Programs (SASP) helps students rise to academic challenges and assists them in successfully completing the undergraduate curriculum. SASP specialists offer students programs designed to maximize their learning potential, personal adjustment, and academic performance. As part of the SMU campus community, SASP staff cares about your growth and well-being. We pledge to foster faculty/staff-student relationships of trust and collaborate with you in creating a learning experience that upholds values respecting the unique identities and basic human rights carried by all students. You can see an elaboration of these values here: www.smu.edu/values. Summer 2022 Semester at a Glance How do we help SMU students? Academic Counseling Read More Tutoring Read More Writing Center Read More Workshops Read More Student Success and Retention Read More Disability Accommodations & Success Strategies Read More Student Persistence and Achievement Programs Read More 1-Minute Workshop Video Series Find quick explanations for techniques and tools in Time Management, Concentration and Academic Success. Learn More Tutoring Tutoring hours are Sunday from 5-10, Monday-Thursday from 2-10pm and Friday from 1-5pm. Learn More DASS The time to submit documentation to Disability Accommodations is now! Learn More Welcome The staff at ACE welcomes first generation students and Rotunda Scholars! Learn More Academic Development of Student Athletes Academic support for student-athletes is now available in ADSA. Learn More Congratulations to our Extra Mile Faculty Award Winners! This award recognizes faculty who are sensitive and supportive in their work in the classroom with students who have learning differences. American Sign Language Music Video Check out SMU's American Sign Language Music Video. See the Video Previous Next pause play hide show Learn about SASP Quick Links Schedule an Appointment with an Academic Counselor Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center Academic Center for Excellence Learning Strategies Workshops SASP services are located in two areas of campus. The Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center is home to the Writing Center, tutoring, HDEV classes, the Disability Accommodations and Success Strategies staff, academic counselors, learning specialists and workshops. Contact Information: Altshuler Learning Enhancement Center (A-LEC) Loyd All Sports Center, Suite 202 5800 Ownby Drive, Dallas, TX 75205 Email: a-lec@smu.edu Phone: (214) 768-3648 Office Hours: Sun 3-10pm, M-Th 8:30am-10pm, F 8:30am-6pm Summer Hours: Sun 3-8pm, M-Th 9am-7pm, F 9am-4pm Academic Center for Excellence (ACE) Armstrong Commons 5809 Bush Ave #157, Dallas, TX 75275 Phone: (214) 768-4031 Office Hours: Sun- Fri 8:30am-8pm Summer Hours: M-Th 9am-4:30pm, F 9am-4pm Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share