Skip to main content Power of PittBuilding a Healthy and Resilient Community Toggle navigation Menu Use this for to search the site. Search A Healthy Community Pitt's Health Rules Safe Buildings and Spaces Pitt COVID-19 Dashboard COVID-19 Medical Response Office Pandemic Safety Network COVID-19 Vaccines Vaccine Requirement Proof of Vaccination and Booster Why Get Vaccinated? Vaccine Clinics Testing and Care COVID-19 Testing Overview COVID-19 Positive or Symptomatic Responding to Symptomatic Individuals Quarantine and Isolation Contact Tracing Guests and Travel On-Campus Guests and Events Safe Travel and Requirements Guidelines for Vendors and Suppliers Report a Concern Know Your Community Level The University’s mask rules are consistent with CDC guidance, which relies on COVID-19 Community Levels to determine when indoor masking is required. Please be aware of the community level in your area. Masks are optional in University facilities where COVID-19 is at low or medium levels. Check your Community Level COVID-19 Response Updates and Announcements May 27 Masking Required Indoors on Pittsburgh, Greensburg, and Titusville Campuses Yesterday, the CDC moved Allegheny, Westmoreland, and Crawford counties’ COVID-19 Community Levels to High. In High level, the CDC recommends wearing a mask indoors in public. Consistent with this guidance, masks are required indoors in all Pittsburgh, Greensburg, and Titusville campus facilities until further notice. Masks remain optional on the Johnstown and Bradford campuses. Read the full message. May 20 CMRO Summer Update Read the CMRO Summer Update from May 20, 2022. Apr 28 CMRO Update Read the CMRO Update from April 28, 2022. Apr 21 CMRO Update Read the CMRO Update from April 21, 2022. Apr 14 CMRO Update Read the CMRO Update from April 14, 2022. All Updates and Announcements Vaccine Clinics Summer term 2022 hours: Mondays: noon - 5 p.m. Wednesdays: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Thursdays: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Appointments and walk-ins are available at Nordenberg Hall. Last appointment is half an hour before close. Appointments preferred. Register here! Plan Your COVID-19 Vaccination » Popular Destinations Pitt's Health Rules Campus Guest Registration Travel Proof of Vaccination Pittsburgh Housing and Dining Bradford Housing and Dining Greensburg Housing and Dining Johnstown Housing and Dining There is tremendous power at the heart of this institution. The power of healthy practices. The power of safer spaces. The power of smarter approaches. Together, we will show the world the Power of Pitt. Share the Power of Pitt. Power of PittBuilding a Healthy and Resilient Community 4200 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15260 412-624-4141 Additional Resources Emergency.pitt.edu Pitt Research Resources COVID-19 Standards & Guidelines Report a COVID-Related Concern Regional Campuses Pitt-Bradford » Pitt-Greensburg » Pitt-Johnstown » Pitt-Titusville » Notice The content on this website is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition. While we are striving to keep this website up to date, for any official guidance from the federal, state or local government please visit their websites directly.