Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate (Graduate) Apply Visit Request More Info Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Data-Driven Decision Making Graduate Certificate The Data-Driven Decision Making Graduate Certificate program in the College of Education and Human Development provides students with the knowledge to collect, analyze and use data to make informed decisions. This graduate-level certificate program focuses on critical components of strategic decision-making, including which types of data to collect, techniques for data analysis, and appropriate interpretation of findings to inform decisions and action. Who might be interested? This 12-credit certificate is appropriate for professionals in a wide range of fields—including business, education, government and social service—who use and make decisions informed by data and seek to expand their areas of expertise. Flexible coursework, including the order of course completion, modes of delivery (i.e., onsite, hybrid and fully online) and a culminating paper on a topic of interest makes this certification highly customizable to students’ professional interests. Delivery Method This certificate program offers different ways to earn the certificate, including onsite courses in Philadelphia and/or taking courses online. Courses are taught by faculty with top academic credentials and experience as practitioners. Classes & Curriculum You must complete 12 credit hours of graduate-level coursework (four courses) in order to earn the certificate. Topics covered in the curriculum include educational psychology basics, program evaluation, and statistics and research. View the full Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Education PhD with a concentration in Educational Psychology Related Graduate Certificates Institutional Effectiveness Voluntary Internships Internships give you opportunities to get hands-on experience, refine your understanding of your coursework and make professional contacts who can assist your future career development. Internships are voluntary experiences that take place outside of the program curriculum: students do not receive credit for internships. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact Avi Kaplan, associate professor of psychological studies in education, is the faculty coordinator for the Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate (Graduate) program. Phone: 215-204-4497 Email: akaplan@temple.edu Our Advisors A faculty program coordinator provides academic support and helps students navigate the certificate program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-DDDM-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Data-Driven Decision Making Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Information Our Faculty Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info