Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print U.S. Poet Laureate Herrera encourages students to speak out on social issues by Iris Samuels, Class of 2019 Sept. 23, 2016, 4:15 p.m. Juan Felipe Herrera approached the stage at Princeton University, poetry books in hand. Named the first Latino United States poet laureate in 2015, Herrera spoke on Thursday evening, Sept. 22, to a standing-room only audience of students and community members at the Fields Center. For nearly two hours, he deftly interwove readings of his poems with advice, encouraging attendees to use their voices against today's injustices and to use words, as he does, to combat racism and violence. "You are all leaders," he said. The event was organized by the Latino Graduate Student Association as part of the Latinx Heritage Month happening across campus. Jeremy Borjon, president of the association, called Herrera's public conversation a "community event," cosponsored by several Princeton programs. These include Campus Conversations on Identities; the Carl A. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding; the Graduate School's diversity and inclusion team; the Council of the Humanities; the departments of comparative literature, English, and Spanish and Portuguese; and the programs in creative writing and Latin American studies. U.S. Poet Laureate Juan Felipe Herrera, who gave a public conversation on Sept. 22 at Princeton to a standing-room only audience of students and community members, reads from his recent collection, "Notes on the Assemblage." (Photos by Nick Donnoli, Office of Communications) Brandon Hunter, vice president of the Latino Graduate Student Association, introduced Herrera and moderated the discussion. A graduate student in anthropology, Hunter is the son of a Peruvian mother and an American-born father, and grew up traversing two worlds. "Like Mr. Herrera has said about his own upbringing as the son of farmworkers," Hunter said, "my life in an immigrant household was also literary, filled with the stories, songs and expressions that are possible when one is steeped in the linguistic estuary that is the Latino experience." Standing at the lectern, relaxed and informal in shirtsleeves and a jaunty blue hat, Herrera read several poems from his most recent collection, "Notes on the Assemblage," as well as from previous collections. Herrera said that in his writing, he is "concerned with the human condition." The crowd listened intently with a mixture of laughter and somber nodding as Herrera gracefully navigated descriptions of humor and pain. Many of Herrera's poems speak to his experience as a Latino growing up in California. "I'm concerned with the constant belligerence against undocumented Mexicans, Latinas and Latinos, workers who traveled so far to make a little money for their families," he said. But his more recent poems touch on topics of police brutality, LGBTQI issues and the Black Lives Matter movement — topics that have filled headlines during his tenure as poet laureate. "I did the best I could, because that's what I do. And that's what you do," he said. Members of the audience smile and laugh while listening to Herrera's remarks and poetry, which touched on both humorous and somber subject matter. Explaining why he started writing poetry, Herrera said: "Well, I just had to get on that stage, on that podium … I had to use my voice, because I didn't have one. I had to pull it out of myself." Behind his wide-brimmed glasses, his eyes glimmered with excitement. Herrera was eager to incorporate other voices into his poetry. As the evening progressed, he called on the audience to repeat certain refrains from his poems, mixing Spanish and English, transforming his poetry into a collective experience. He told the audience that members of the Latino Graduate Student Association board had hosted a dinner for him the previous evening, an experience that made a deep impression. "I'm not the same guy who arrived last night," Herrera said. "I'm a new guy!" he added with a smile, describing the conversations he had with students as meaningful and sincere. One of the students who met with Herrera was Santiago Cuellar, a doctoral candidate in computer science. "[Herrera] is the kind of person that absorbs like a sponge," Cuellar said during the reception and book signing after the event. "He quickly understands everything and integrates it in what he is doing." Herrera made insightful connections between his poems and the research of the students he spoke to, touching on topics as diverse as neuroscience and astrophysics. "This is what happens when you come to Princeton," he said, before reading new poems inspired by the students' research, lifting up his notebook for the audience to see the lines of freshly scrawled ink. "This is what comes from conversations on star systems and fruit flies and Don Quixote," he said. Brandon Hunter, right, vice president of the Latino Graduate Student Association, a co-presenter of the event, moderates a Q&A session with Herrera. During the Q&A, several questions focused on activism and social movements, with audience members seeking advice on how to become more meaningfully and effectively engaged. "I'm thinking of direct communication," Herrera said, encouraging students to speak openly with those with whom they do not agree. "There's always ways to get through terrible onslaughts of racism, oppression and exploitation. It's never absolute. It's never totally overpowering." Herrera urged the students to speak up on matters important to them. "What is a student without a voice?" he asked, recounting his time as a student-activist himself. While attending the University of California-Los Angeles in the late 1960s as one of the first wave of Chicanos to receive an Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) scholarship, Herrera became immersed in the Chicano Civil Rights Movement. "With such great minds, and such great voices, and so many resources in your hands, we really need you. … You can do so much," he said. "This is the kind of opportunity one goes to Princeton for," said Lou Chen, a member of the Class of 2019 who grew up in San Bernardino, California, in a predominantly Latino community. "I marveled at how [Herrera] was able to succinctly but effectively, in a couple of lines and in the span of an hour and a half, take us into that world." As he waited to speak to Herrera in the book-signing line, Chen said: "I was struck by his level of interest in other people's lives. I think that's what makes his poems so special, because you detect in them an undercurrent of empathy." Related Stories Princeton professor Tracy K. Smith named U.S. Poet Laureate Read more Reflections on truth and compassion mark Martin Luther King Jr. Day celebration Read more C.K. Williams, distinguished poet and 'great mentor,' dies at 78 Read more Two 'guiding stars' of poetry discuss writing, race and history Read more The nexus factor: Examining the African American experience Read more Dudamel! Anatomy of a cross-campus residency Read more Herrera bridges Latinx culture and popular performance at Princeton Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice