Skip to main content Admissions Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Admissions Only Apply for Admission An education at Boise State is more than textbooks and tests. You’ll experience a thriving metropolitan research university located in the heart of Idaho’s capital that offers more than 200 areas of study. Whether you’re conquering a mountain or a chemistry equation, you’ll discover how adventurous life is as a Bronco. Ready to apply? See below to learn how. Admissions Apply Visit Student Life Explore Academics Cost and Value Next Steps for Admitted Students Connect with Us! More section menu items APPLY NOW It’s time to turn your plans into action. Let’s get going! First off, select the application type below to get you started on your admissions steps. Undergraduate Application If you’re ready to get started, click the button below. Start your Undergraduate Application Other Application Types Graduate Application International Undergraduate Application International Graduate Application HOW TO APPLY Depending on who you are, the steps in your application process may vary slightly. If you’d like to learn more about how to apply, select the type of student you are below. New to College Learn more! New to College Learn more! Transfer Student Learn more! Transfer Student Learn more! Former Boise State Student Former Boise State Student Former Boise State Student Second Bachelor's Degree Learn more! Second Bachelor's Degree Learn more! Graduate Student Learn more! Graduate Student Learn more! International Student Learn more! International Student Learn more! Adult Learner Learn more! Adult Learner Learn more! Concurrently Enrolled Learn more! Concurrently Enrolled Learn more! Application and Scholarship Deadlines These deadlines are for undergraduate degree-seeking students. International student deadlines are earlier. Fall/Summer Application and Scholarship Priority Deadlines Nonresident Application and Scholarship Priority Deadline:* December 15 Resident Application and Scholarship Priority Deadline:* February 15 Standard Application Deadline: May 1 Application closes: August 1 Spring Application and Scholarship Priority Deadline: Application and Scholarship Priority Deadline: October 1 Standard Application Deadline: December 1 *All required admission and scholarship materials for new freshmen and transfer students must be received by Boise State Admissions by date indicated. All scholarship criteria is subject to change. Frequently Asked Questions Search Jump To Section Jump To Section When will I be notified about an admission decision? How can I apply for an Application Fee Waiver? Can I move my application? How is a student's residency determined? Jump to section: When will I be notified about an admission decision? How can I apply for an Application Fee Waiver? Can I move my application? How is a student's residency determined? When will I be notified about an admission decision? Once all your admission materials have been received it takes approximately three weeks to process your application and make your admission decision. You’ll be notified of your admission decision by mail and email. A printable letter of admission will be posted on your my.boisestate.edu page. Get in the habit of checking your BroncoMail and myBoiseState frequently, as important information is posted regularly. How can I apply for an Application Fee Waiver? Boise State University offers Admissions Application Fee Waivers for students who demonstrate financial need. Students must meet certain criteria. Learn More About The Fee Waiver Can I move my application? If you need to move an application that you have already submitted forward or backward one semester, you must complete our Deferment Request Form. Move Your Application How is a student's residency determined? Your state of legal residence is determined at the time of your initial application for admission to Boise State. Be sure to answer all questions on the admission application as fully as possible. The full process for establishing Idaho residency is listed on the Registrar’s webpage. Further questions can be directed to Josh Wilkins at joshuawilkins@boisestate.edu. Boise State Admissions admissions@boisestate.edu 208-426-1156 1910 University Dr. Boise, 83725-1320 Follow Us Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University