A&H Distinguished Speaker Series Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC Arts and Humanities Secondary Navigation Main News Faculty Activities Secondary Navigation More A&H Distinguished Speaker Series A&H Pedagogical Forum Student Activities Resources Events Staff TC Arts & Humanities A&H Distinguished Speaker Series A&H Distinguished Speaker Series The faculty and students in the Department of Arts and Humanities take pride in its intellectual diversity and see it as a unique avenue to pursue deep learning, cultivate open-mindedness, and engage in creative thinking and practice surrounding human wisdom, capacity, and potential. The A&H Distinguished Speaker Series (AH-DSS) showcases the scholarship of faculty in the Department of Arts and Humanities. Speakers are professors from across the ten programs in the Department - Applied Linguistics and TESOL, Art and Education, Arts Administration, Bilingual and Bicultural Education, Dance Education, English Education, History and Education, Music and Music Education, Philosophy and Education, and Social Studies Education. Speakers in the A&H DSS are world-renowned leaders in their fields of study and frequently invited keynote speakers at international conferences worldwide. The AH-DSS is open to everyone within and beyond the TC community. Hal Abeles David Hansen Janet L. Miller Judith Burton Bob Fecho, Professor in English Education Artists of the Self: Dialogue as a Means of Teaching and Learning in Our Lives March 5, 2020 What do we mean when we say we are dialoguing, that we teach through dialogue, that we enter into dialogue with others, that we extend dialogically into the world? If Paulo Freire, Mikhail Bakhtin, Dmitri Nikulin, Hubert Hermans and others who argue for the power and possibility of dialogue were all on the same panel, would they agree that what was occurring among them was dialogical? Is all dialogue, by its very nature, inherently conducive to teaching and learning? If not, then what aspects of the many conceptions of dialogical process should we embrace, why should we embrace them, and what does that look like in classrooms and our day-to-day encounters? Finally, if as Nikulin contends, to be is to dialogue, then how do we as educators harness that human condition to help students and ourselves be, do, and become artists of the self? Distinguished Speaker Series: Bob Fecho Watch Bob Fecho's Talk. Ruth Vinz, Professor in English Education Encounters With Poetry: (Re)figuring the Geometries of Attention December 5, 2019 What are possible purposes for poems and poetry in our lives, education, and public discourses? In this presentation, we will explore how poems, in subtle yet powerful ways, are textual practices for re-engaging with the world through a pedagogy for pausing—to see again, to un- know the familiar, to encounter Others toward the edges of understanding, to be astonished and surprised, and to recognize silences and gaps as co-generative spaces for imagining, creating, and taking action in the world. How might poems attune us to wondering, questioning, and seeing peripherally and slant? Poems do not express the world but enable and perform the world through aesthetic, cultural, and ethical imaginaries. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Ruth Vinz View photographs from Dr. Ruth Vinz Distinguished Speaker Series! Distinguished Speaker Series: Ruth Vinz Watch the DSS Speaker panel lecture. Panel discussion with A&H DSS speakers November 11, 2019 In this interdisciplinary speaker panel in which four former DSS speakers engage in a discussion of questions that have come out of their previous presentations. The panel highlighted issues of critical important to the future of American education. A&H Distinguished Speaker Panel featuring Judith Burton, Janet Miller, David Hanson & Hal Abales Watch the DSS Speaker panel lecture. James E. Purpura, Professor of Language and Education Questioning the Currency of Second and Foreign Language Certification Exams October 10, 2019 In his Distinguished Speaker Series, Dr. James E. Purpura questions the currency of traditional approaches to L2 assessment, arguing that present designs limit their capacity to provide examinee information that is needed and valued in the real world. I argue for a learning-oriented approach to assessment as a design framework for constructing scenario-based assessments capable of measuring a broadened array of constructs, and providing better interpretative bases for educational decisions. For more on Professor James E. Purpura, visit his Teachers College Faculty page. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: James Purpura Watch the video of Professor Purpura's lecture. Hal Abeles, Professor of Music and Music Education and Co-director of TC’s Center for Arts Education Research Mixing Words and Numbers: A Case for Texture in Research and Evaluation Design April 10, 2019 All methods of data collection and analysis have advantages and limitations. Different research languages—based in numbers, or words, or images—provide people with alternative ways of knowing. Threaded together, they create research “texture.” Hal Abeles advocates for the use of multiple strategies to take advantage of the strengths of different research approaches and to provide a more thorough understanding of the research questions being examined or the educational program being evaluated. Abeles illustrates the advantages of mixing methods, creating “textured insights,” that speak to multiple audiences, using his research on gender issues in music education and evaluation studies of community arts organizations. For more on Professor Abeles, visit his Teachers College Faculty page. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Hal Abeles Watch the livestream video of Professor Abeles' lecture. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Hal Abeles View photographs from the event on our A&H Flickr! Photos by Margaret Ferrec for A&H David Hansen, John L. & Sue Ann Weinberg Professor in the Historical and Philosophical Foundations of Education Why the Call to Teach Matters February 19, 2019 Philosophers of education seek to contribute to the ethos of how people conceive and talk about education. They endeavor to show how this talk is bound up with notions of justice, of goodness, and of beauty. In an era of ‘alternative facts’ and unprincipled assaults on reasoned communication, their task has become all the more important. In this presentation, David Hansen proposes to counter harmful distortions about the practice of teaching and about what it means to be a teacher, whether of children, youth, or adults. He will reimagine the familiar, if poorly understood, idea of teaching as a calling. A vivid sense of calling, Hansen will suggest, positions teachers at all levels of the system to experience a deeply meaningful life while making a very real contribution to society. He will contrast this image of teaching with problematic conceptions that obstruct if not undermine the work of teachers and teacher educators. His animating concern is that accounts of teaching and of what it is to be a teacher matter: teachers live, work, suffer, and flourish under particular accounts. Hansen will argue that the idea of teaching as a calling speaks directly to the passion of teachers, while also constituting an enduring philosophy of education that can inform, sustain, and inspire them to work together in the name of education itself. For more on Professor Hansen, visit his Teachers College Faculty page. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: David Hansen Watch the video of Professor Hansen's lecture, produced by Hua-Chu Yen. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: David Hansen View photographs from the event on our A&H Flickr! Photos by Margaret Ferrec for A&H Janet L. Miller, Professor of English Education The Narrative Researcher/Writer: Discomforting Reflexivities and Impossible Composings November 29, 2018 Qualitative researchers have grappled for decades now with imperatives generated by “the crisis of representation.” Thus, researching and its accompany writings continue to require “reflexivities of discomfort” – that is, interrogations of often habitual preoccupations, expectations, suppositions, fantasies that affect both our researching and the “writing up” of such efforts. But such questionings in no way are intended as means to guarantee “more accurate, truthful, decolonized” narrations of “self” and “other.” Rather, such reflexive practices also compel examinations of historically, culturally and socially contingent influences on all aspects of preparing for as well as engaging in research and its always-fraught representational writing endeavors. Re-turning, in part, to Roland Barthes and his lectures on “The Preparation of the Novel,” I consider several on-going research projects in light of my entangling socialities, reflexivities of discomfort and (im)possible composings. For more on Professor Miller, visit her Teachers College Faculty page. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Janet L. Miller Watch the video of Professor Miller's lecture, produced by Hua-Chu Yen. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Janet L. Miller View photographs from the event on our A&H Flickr! Photos by Margaret Ferrec for A&H Judith Burton, Macy Professor of Education Border Crossings: Threads, Spaces, Networks and New Ideas October 25, 2018 From STEM to STEAM has become a popular topic of pedagogical theorizing and practice in which the arts engage as threads interweaving the humanities and sciences expanding traditional norms of cognition. This is not a new idea but in today’s world prompts radical re-thinking about the future of schools and the emergence of coalitions that have the power to re-shape culture and re-contextualize education This presentation will argue for a reinscription of the arts in terms of “collaborative envisioning” in which social groups and cultural institutions form networks that highlight reflection, imagination and aesthetic sensibility reformulating ideas about teaching and learning and the sites where they take place. For more on Professor Burton, visit her Teachers College Faculty page. A&H Distinguished Speaker Series: Judith Burton View photographs from the event on our A&H Flickr! Photos by Margaret Ferrec for A&H Professor Judith Burton, Inaugural Macy Lecture Watch the Facebook livestream of Professor Burton's lecture. Contact Us Department Chair: Kelly Parkes Phone: (212) 678-3469 * Fax: (212) 678-3746 * Email: ahofc@tc.columbia.edu Address: 334B Horace Mann Box Number: 104 Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links