Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Graduate Graduate Studies In Mathematics The PhD program is intended for students with a solid background in undergraduate mathematics and a strong interest in research. Most of our students intend to pursue academic careers, but some of them find other kinds of positions, for example in industry or finance. Students are supported by fellowship in the first year, and ordinarily begin working as teaching assistants in the second year. We aim to provide a supportive environment for teaching, learning, and creating mathematics. The relatively small size (about 40+ graduate students and 25+ faculty and postdocs) allows for close contact with faculty and a sense of community. The program is flexible enough to accommodate a range of levels of preparation. More than 85% of students admitted receive their PhD. The department has weekly seminars in many areas, currently Algebra, Geometry/Topology, Analysis, Discrete Mathematics, and Algebraic Geometry, as well a weekly Colloquium and a Graduate Student Seminar organized by students for students. Beyond the department Brown has other significant mathematical resources. The Division of Applied Mathematics is a separate department with its own faculty, degree programs, and course offerings. ICERM is an NSF-funded research institute that brings in long-term and short-term visitors for workshops, seminars, and courses. The Data Science Initiative is an interdisciplinary program. All of these have been useful to students in the program. PhD students may qualify for a terminal Master's degree after (usually) two years. The department does not have a Master's program. For more information regarding the program, please contact us at (401) 863-2708 or via email at [email protected]. Graduate Program Admissions Graduate Program Description Graduate Program Handbook Directed Reading Program Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Program Description Graduate Program Handbook Directed Reading Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat