Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Meet Our Staff Tanya Purdy, MPH, MCHES Director Pronouns: she/her/hers Tanya has experience in research, development, implementation and evaluation of many health promotion initiatives including bystander intervention, mental health promotion and peer health coaching. Tanya's academic interests include feminist analysis of health disparities and health promotion strategic program planning and assessment. She is invested in bringing feminist theory and social justice research to practice through her health education work. When not at work, Tanya is an avid crocheter, volunteers as a full spectrum doula and is learning to play the drums. Tanya received a BA in Political Science and Women’s Studies from Montclair State University and a Masters in Public Health from the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. Naomi Ninneman, MPH Assistant Director Pronouns: she/her/hers Naomi has been promoting health and wellness, with a focus on sexual health, for about twenty years. She was the director of education departments for Planned Parenthood of Greater Orlando and Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts and ran a peer education program for Planned Parenthood here in Rhode Island. Since coming to Brown in 2007, Naomi has launched and managed multiple campus wide initiatives including the founding of the Sexual Health Awareness Group (SHAG) and its associated texting and Ship n SHAG programs. When not at work, Naomi can most often be found running (5ks and 10ks), or at her kids’ baseball games. Naomi holds a BA in Literature from Bennington College and a Masters in Public Health from UMASS Amherst School of Public Health and Health Sciences. Alana Sacks, MSW, LCSW Associate Director of Response Services Pronouns: she/her/hers Alana is a clinical social worker who has worked for the past 7 years as an advocate for survivors of sexual and relationship violence. Before coming to Brown, she served as Assistant Director of Programs and Services at RESPOND, Inc., New England's first domestic violence organization, and as a clinician at the inpatient psychiatric unit at Cambridge Health Alliance. She has received training from the Victims of Violence Program at Cambridge Health Alliance, the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center, and the Greater Boston Domestic Violence Collaborative. In her free time she loves to cook, eat, spend time with loved ones and play music in local bands. Alana is a graduate of Boston College and of Boston University’s School of Social Work, receiving a certificate of specialization in trauma. Takyah Smith, MPH Social Wellness Coordinator Pronouns: she/her/hers Takyah is a passionate public health professional experienced in health education and promotion. In her past positions she has focused on marginalized populations, youth and young adults, community health education and outreach, health policies, and tobacco cessation. Takyah’s academic background includes a BS in Health Sciences Pre-Clinical and Psychology from the University of Central Florida and a Master’s in Public Health from the University of South Florida. Combining her academic and professional background, Takyah is determined to support equitable services for youth and young adults that address social determinants of health and empower others to live in wellness while optimizing their quality of life. To note, Takyah is a proud native of Miami, FL. Jonell Thibault, BA Operations Coordinator Pronouns: she/her/hers Jonell comes to Brown with a background in operations and case management. Originally from Southern California, Jonell graduated with her BA in Sociology from Loyola Marymount University. She is particularly passionate about criminal justice reform, and the destigmatization of those who have been justice-system involved as well as those with mental health and substance use issues. Most recently, Jonell was an operations coordinator at an outpatient treatment facility for patients with mental health and substance use disorders. When she's not working, Jonell is always up for an adventure (near or far). She loves traveling, dining out at the myriad of local eateries Providence has to offer, and dancing to just about whatever kind of music is playing. ------ Kimberly Piontkowski MPH ‘23 Research Assistant Pronouns: she/her/hers Kimberly is an MPH student at Brown concentrating in Health Behavior. Before coming to Brown, Kimberly received her BA in Psychology and Public Health from Wheaton College (MA). Kimberly worked at the Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts where she engaged in direct patient care, sexual health education and counseling, medical/lab assisting, and abortion care. Kimberly’s interests include sexual health, specifically HIV/STI prevention research, sexual violence prevention, and social epidemiology. Outside of school and work she is an avid Beach Boys fan, enjoys playing tennis, baking, and supporting the Bruins. Cedonia Thomas MPH ‘23 Research Assistant Pronouns: she/her/hers Cedonia is an MPH at Brown concentrating in Health Services. She is an emerging public health health services researcher. Her academic and research interests include health disparities, promoting healthy behaviors, and quality improvement. Previously, Cedonia has worked as a research intern at the NIH National Human Genome Research Institute, and The Rhode Island Department of Health. Cedonia received a BS in Biology from Tougaloo College. In her free time, she enjoys spending time with family and friends, trying new restaurants, and traveling. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools Make an Appointment Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook