COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Admissions: Adult Learners Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Stop Video Get information about Wichita State, personalized for your career goals.Request info Whether you're looking to start—or continue—your college career, nobody offers adult learners more than Wichita State. By combining quality, career-boosting degrees with affordable tuition, flexible options and a support system to help you every step of the way, WSU creates an environment where busy adults can turn their dreams into a reality. Apply Now Visit campus Virtual tour Degree programs to make you workforce ready At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it. This gives Shockers in every major the chance to work for employers in their areas of interest—gaining practical experience, a professional network, college credit and even a paycheck, all while still in school. Choose from 200+ programs Not an adult learner? Select your status below to get admission information tailored for you. Transfer student Incoming freshman International student Graduate student Military or veteran Online classes A fully online, flexible, high quality education that will help you advance your career without leaving your job, home or community. Office of Adult Learning Beyond just helping you get started, the Office of Adult Learning in the Grace Wilkie Annex offers a wide range of resources tailored to your needs—to keep you on the path toward academic and career success. Tuition, scholarships and financial aid Funding your high-quality Wichita State education is easy. Just get admitted, and if you’re eligible, we’ll send you an automatic scholarship offer. You could also qualify for some of the more than $100 million in other scholarships and financial aid we award each year. In addition, many of our out-of-state students qualify for in-state or reduced tuition. Tuition & fees Scholarships Financial aid Net price calculator More admissions information Adult learner admission requirements If you are an adult learner (21 years and older) with fewer than 24 credit hours, you must: 1. Have a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA (on a 4.00 scale) on all previous college work. 2. Have graduated from an accredited high school or have an overall score of 680 on the GED. If you are an adult learner (21 years and older) with no transfer work, you must: Have graduated from an accredited high school or have an overall score of 680 on the GED. Certain academic colleges within Wichita State require students to meet a minimum GPA for admission to their colleges. The School of Business requires that incoming students have a minimum 2.25 GPA, and the College of Applied Studies and the College of Health Professions has GPA requirements that vary depending on major. Admission requirements Former WSU student admission requirements If you previously studied at Wichita State as an undergraduate degree-bound student (but not as a high school guest student, non-degree regular, non-degree open or college guest) and you would like to resume studying as an undergraduate after an absence, you do not need to apply for admission again. Students whose previous enrollment was only in a non-degree category (high school guests, non-degree regular, non-degree open or college guest) who now wish to be degree bound, must apply for degree-bound admission. Apply at wichita.edu/apply. If it has been less than two years since you last enrolled at WSU, you do not need to reactivate your file. You may visit with an advisor in your college for assistance in selecting classes and register/pay in the myWSU portal. If it has been two years or longer since you last enrolled, you must submit an online reactivation form to the Register's Office before you can register for classes. Admission requirements Non-degree admission requirements Open admission students Students who are looking to take up to 30 credit hours for self-enrichment purposes and meet one of the following criteria may be an open admit: 1. Graduated from high school, or have earned the equivalent of a high school diploma OR 2. Have not graduated from high school, and are at least 21 years of age OR 3. Currently on active military duty OR 4. Hold a baccalaureate or higher degree Students not meeting the requirements above may be considered for non-degree admission at the discretion of the Office of Admissions. Students under open admission are not eligible to receive financial aid. Admission requirements Frequently asked questions Don't see what you’re looking for? Browse our list of frequently asked questions for more information on the admissions process, steps for admitted students, counselor and advisor information, Shocker Family programs and more. Frequently asked questions We're here to help. Ask a rep Admissions staff OneStop help center 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©