Skip to main content Skip to main content Degree Programs Perkins Chapel Bridwell Library Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Perkins School of Theology About About Mission Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map Faculty & Academics Faculty & Academics Academic Services Bridwell Library Degree Programs Faculty by Teaching Area Faculty Listing A-Z Faculty Publications Perkins Video Library Global Theological Education Home Hybrid Houston-Galveston Extension Program Degree Interest Areas Perkins Intern Program Other Academic Programs Spiritual Formation Program Emeritus Faculty Open Faculty Positions Admission Admission Connect Visit Campus Apply Affording Seminary Admit Portal Student Life Student Life Academic Services Student Engagement Student Resources Alumni/ae & Friends Alumni/ae & Friends Update Your Records How to Get Involved Publications and News Events | Calendar Perkins Scholarship Luncheon Faith and Business Luncheon Series Distinguished Alumnus/a Award Seals Laity Award Make a Gift to Perkins News News News Archives Perkins Perspective Events Calendar External Programs and Centers External Programs and Centers Perkins Summit for Faith & Learning Certificate in Practical Ministry Certificate in Spiritual Direction Perkins Fall Convocation | November 15 - 16, 2021 Webinars & Hybrid Events Perkins School of Youth Ministry Course of Study | Curso de Estudio Center for Methodist Studies Center for Preaching Excellence Center for Religious Leadership Center for the Study of Latino/a Christianity and Religions El Programa de Ministerios Hispan@/Latin@ The Hispanic/Latino/a Ministries Program Video Library Contact Office of External Programs ☰ Perkins School of Theology About Executive Board Executive Board The Executive Board of Perkins School of Theology provides advice and counsel to the Dean; supports creation of and linkages between faculty, students, and the church community; aids in the recruiting and developing of faculty; monitors the performance of the school; and assists the school in networking on the local, regional and national levels. The membership of the Executive Board shall include Trustees, former Trustees, alumni, faculty from other institutions, leaders in the professions or disciplines relating to the school, and developmental prospects. The Board is constituted with due regard to the commitment of the University to diversity with respect to race and ethnicity, age, gender, geographic origin, vocation, and philosophical orientation. Members of the Executive Board shall be appointed by the President after consultation with the Chair of the Executive Board and the dean or director, and approved by the Board of Trustees. Rev. Bert Bagley Galveston, TX Rev. Dr. L. James Bankston Manvel, TX Mr. John G. Beall Dallas, TX Rev. Greg Bergquist Nashville, TN Ms. Jane Bolin Dallas, TX Tucker Bridwell Abilene, TX Pastor Richie L. Butler Richardson, TX Mr. Brad Cheves Vice President Southern Methodist University ex officio Ms. Julie Cloud Westlake, TX Ms. Dodee Crockett (Co-Vice Chair) Wimberley, TX Ms. Catherine Cuellar Dallas, TX Mr. Robert H. Dedman Chair of the SMU Board of Trustees ex officio Mr. David Dunnigan Dallas, TX Rev. Richard W. Edwards Fort Worth, TX Mr. John Esquivel Houston, TX Mr. Mike Fenton Waxahachie, TX Dr. Dan L. Flanagan Papillion, NE Mr. Duncan Fulton Dallas, TX Mrs. Judy W. Gibbs Dallas, TX The Honorable Lynn Hunt Gray Dallas, TX Mr. Joe Hardt Dallas, TX Bishop Cynthia Fierro Harvey Baton Rouge, LA Ms. Paula White Hayes Dallas, TX Dean Craig C. Hill Perkins School of Theology ex officio Ms. Susanna Johnson Arlington, TX Mr. Stanley R. Levenson Dallas, TX Dr. Charles L. Lloyd, Jr. Dallas, TX Mr. Thomas R. Locke Austin, TX Rev. Katherine Glaze Lyle (Co-Vice Chair) Dallas, TX Rev. Dr. George Mason Dallas, TX Bishop L. Michael McKee (Chair) Plano, TX Rev. Dr. Lael Melville Plano, TX Rev. Steven Bradley Morgan Texarkana, TX Ms. Sara Pantin Austin, TX Ms. Lisa Remack Saint Louis, MO Rev. Susan Robb Dallas, TX Mr. John Seddelmeyer Dallas, TX Rev. Gail Ford Smith Houston, TX Ms. Gay Ferguson Solomon Dallas, TX Mr. Richard Stewart Irving, TX President R. Gerald Turner Southern Methodist University ex-officio Ms. Gail Utter Sherman, TX Rev. Dr. Michael Waters Dallas, TX Ms. Barbara Cook Wendland Temple, TX Mrs. Jane Allman Wetzel Dallas, TX Ms. Sarah Wilke Nashville, TN Ms. Julie Yarbrough Dallas, TX Mrs. Kay Prothro Yeager Wichita Falls, TX About Perkins' Mission and Context Perkins United Methodist Seminaries Statement of Accreditation Statement of Educational Effectiveness Executive Board History Administration and Staff Habito Labyrinth Directions Campus Map An Academy for the Whole Church in the Whole World Prepare to Serve Our groundbreaking Intern Program allows students to transform classroom knowledge into actual practical experience before graduation. Diverse Community We believe cross-cultural immersion experiences best teach students to build intercultural relationships, resolve cultural conflicts and guide intercultural ventures. Academic Excellence The combination of courses taught by renowned scholars with a diverse list of degree programs best prepares students for a wide variety of roles in ministry. Connect Visit Apply Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © SMU Perkins School of Theology, PO Box 750133, Dallas, TX 75275-0133 214-768-8436 or 1-888-843-6564 twitter facebook youtube share