Skip to main content Navigation ECE Site About Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Visiting Texas ECE Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Program Integrated Program Graduate Program ECE Honors Program ECB Honors Program ECE Next ECE Partners Student Organizations People Faculty Directory Researchers Directory Staff Directory Open Faculty Positions Research Research Centers and Labs Texas Computing Texas Robotics News Events Student Corporate Events Seminars Seminar Series Recent Events Engage Alumni Corporate Relations Community Well Giving Outreach Cadence® University Program Member ☰ About Academics People Research News Events Engage Welcome to Electrical and Computer Engineering Learn More About the Department Upcoming Events There are currently no events scheduled. News Texas ECE Course Competition Winners Keep Reading Tianlong Chen Awarded Adobe Research Fellowship Texas ECE PhD student Tianlong Chen has been awarded a 2022 Adobe Research Fellowship. Chen is one of only 10 Fellows for 2022. Keep Reading Jon Tamir Named Inaugural Oracle Research Fellow Jon Tamir of Texas ECE has been named among the inaugural cohort of Oracle Research Fellows. Keep Reading Three Alumni Inducted into Academy of Distinguished Alumni Texas ECE is proud to welcome the three newest members of the Academy of Distinguished Alumni of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The University of Texas at Austin. Keep Reading Research Areas ◄▶︎ Electronics, Photonics and Quantum Systems (EPQS) This area focuses on the development and improvement of electronic, photonic, optoelectronic, spintronic and micro-electromechanical (MEMS) materials,... LEARN MORE bioECE Understanding, engineering, and interfacing with biological systems are among mankind's most important challenges, impacting numerous fields from... LEARN MORE Architecture, Computer Systems, and Embedded Systems (ACSES) Computer architecture is the study of the interface between the hardware and software in computer systems, ranging from supercomputers to servers to... LEARN MORE Integrated Circuits & Systems (ICS) The Integrated Circuits and Systems Group (ICSG) is one of the most active circuit design groups in the country with a young and creative faculty who... LEARN MORE Electromagnetics & Acoustics (EA) This area includes the study of wave propagation ranging from ultralow frequencies to microwaves. It involves investigations of electrical geophysics,... LEARN MORE Decision, Information, and Communications Engineering (DICE) This broad area involves research in the areas of communications, control theory, data science, information theory, machine learning, networking,... LEARN MORE Software Engineering and Systems (SES) Software Engineering and Systems covers the complexity of software systems and requirements. In addition, research and study in this field addresses... LEARN MORE Power Electronics and Power Systems (PEPS) This area involves research in the generation, transmission, distribution, conversion, storage, and management of electric energy. Research activities... LEARN MORE 65 companies participating in curriculum and recruiting programs 3 National Academy of Inventors Members 3 National Academy of Engineering Members Spotlights Happening now at Texas ECE ECE Next Program for Underrepresented Students Learn More Texas ECB Honors Program Learn More Read the new Texas ECE Magazine! Learn More Faculty Openings Learn More © The University of Texas at Austin 2020 | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility ECE Direct Canvas ENGR Direct Faculty & Staff ENGR Direct Students UT Direct UT Directory Contact Us Giving Follow Texas ECE