Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > About us > Working with us Working with us General hours Our general office hours are 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Virtual Drop-in Advising available starting at 9 a.m.). Advising options In-person or virtual appointment 30-minute advising appointments are available throughout the year. You can make an appointment through our appointment scheduler or call (206) 543-2550. Make an appointment Please note: If you are an incoming freshman/ transfer student that HAS NOT attended Advising and Orientation, our advisers are not able to meet with you at this time. Please reach out to First Year Programs (206-543-4905) or email our general account advice@uw.edu Drop-in advising We offer both in-person and virtual drop-in advising Monday-Friday during business hours. Sessions last 10-15 minutes. Please note: If you are an incoming freshman/ transfer student that HAS NOT attended Advising and Orientation, our advisers are not able to meet with you at this time. Please reach out to First Year Programs (206-543-4905) or email our general account advice@uw.edu For in-person drop-in, stop by our office (Mary Gates Hall 141) and check-in at our front desk. Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (last check-in at 4:45 p.m.) For virtual drop-in, use the link below to receive a zoom link. Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. (last check-in at 4:45 p.m.) Check-in for Virtual Drop-in Advising After you submit the form, you will see the link to join the drop-in appointment via Zoom on the submission confirmation page. Note that you will be put into a Zoom waiting room until an adviser is ready to see you. Please note that if you are next in line for drop-in and you are not present in the Zoom room, you will be marked as a no-show and you will have to sign up again. Email For questions that can be answered over email, you can reach out to your assigned adviser or email our general office email at advice@uw.edu. Emails are answered within 1-2 business days. Other types of appointments Individualized Studies Prior to your appointment, please review the Individualized Studies website and the Learning Plan Guide. Low scholarship If you are currently on academic warning or probation, please complete the academic self-assessment survey prior to making an appointment. ROTC, military & veterans Students who receive benefits through the veterans education benefits office (VEBO) need adviser assistance with forms. The two most common are the Quarterly Enrollment Certification Request form and the Credit Evaluation form. You can stop by during drop-in hours or make an appointment for help. If you are admitted into a department, please see your departmental advisers. ROTC students competing for an ROTC scholarship must make an appointment with an adviser. Reinstatement If you have not yet declared a major, or have declared a major in the College of Arts & Sciences, and have been dropped for low scholarship, you will need to work with your assigned adviser who will help you file a petition for reinstatement. EOP, SSS, and CAMP-affiliated students should meet with an OMA&D adviser. For majors outside the College of Arts & Science, please check with the departmental adviser. About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Did you know? Our calendars book up! Make sure you get an appointment. You can schedule up to two weeks in advance. 141 Mary Gates Hall UAA Advising is co-located within the Center for Undergraduate Advising, Diversity and Student Success with OMA&D Academic Counseling Services and Academic Support Programs. Find us on the first floor of Mary Gates Hall. Meet Our People Makayla Dorn, Academic AdviserView all > University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA