Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information for: Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Diversity & Inclusion History & Mission Facts & Figures Events News & Announcements Contact Related Links Advising Maps & Directions FAQs Admission Overview How to Apply Why Choose Woods? Tuition & Aid Visit Alumni Tuition Discount Related Links Articulation Agreements Course Schedule & Registration Process Events Facts & Figures Undergraduate Overview Bachelor's Degree Applied Liberal Arts (ALA) Business Communication Corporate Systems Criminal and Social Justice Economics English Concentration (ALA) History Concentration (ALA) Information Systems Interdisciplinary Studies Concentration (ALA) Natural Sciences Philosophy Concentration (ALA) Political Science Concentration (ALA) Psychology Sociology Concentration (ALA) Sustainability Certificate Related Links Advising BC Summer Session Course Schedule & Registration Process Nondegree Students Visiting Students Resources for Current Students Woods Academic Calendar Graduate Overview Master's Programs M.S. in Applied Analytics M.S. in Applied Economics Articulation Agreements MSAE Advisory Board M.S. in Applied Economics & Cybersecurity Policy & Governance Master of Healthcare Administration M.S. in Leadership & Administration M.S. in Sports Administration Certificates Corporate Communications and Marketing Online Certificate in Data Analytics Executive Leadership and Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Cybersecurity Graduate Certificates Cybersecurity Analytics Sports Analytics Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Related Links Academic Policies BC Summer Session Executive Education Nondegree Students Registration Process Student Life Woods Academic Calendar Community Overview Jesuit Values Advising Woods College Graduation Process Living in Boston BC Resources Related Links Campus Life Career Center Events Manresa Experience Veterans Experience Course Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Related Links Academic Calendar Woods Faculty Resources Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Woods College site Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Admitted Students Alumni Current Students Education Partners Executive Education Faculty International Students Nondegree Students Prospective Faculty Veterans Visiting Students Transfer Students BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close We stand behind you so you can lead. Home Graduate Master's Programs M.S. in Leadership & Administration Master of Science (M.S.) in Leadership & Administration Master of Science (M.S.) in Leadership & Administration We train the leaders the world needs—helping graduates be agile and inclusive changemakers who adapt their methods and organizations to internal and external challenges and trends. Courses focus on creativity, innovation, teamwork, and service-oriented approaches that prioritize equity and build others up. You'll learn strategies to lead—and thrive—in diverse and complex environments. Customize your degree by choosing from one of five exciting, relevant, and in-demand specializations. Apply Inquire At a Glance How many courses? Ten courses—six core courses and four electives in your specialization. Flexible Scheduling Study full- or part-time online, on campus during the evening, or in any combination that works for you. How much does it cost? The tuition rate for the 2022–2023 Academic Year is $1,020 per credit. Curriculum Degree candidates in Leadership and Administration complete a minimum of ten courses. At least eight of the courses must be taken in the Boston College Leadership and Administration program. Up to two courses of comparable graduate work may qualify for transfer credit. Core Courses There are six required core courses: Leading and Managing Change Project Management Evolution of Successful Marketing Strategies in the Digital Era Leadership and Decision Making: Ignatian-based Applied Ethics Inclusive Leadership Applied Research Project (final semester only) Specializations Take electives in one of five specialization areas: Corporate Communications & Marketing Executive Leadership & Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Program of Study Specialization Information Print all courses on page Summer 2022 Course Offerings These listings are informational only. For a current listing of M.S. in Leadership and Administration courses, including closed or canceled courses, please visit the Course Information and Schedule system and use the prefix "ADGR". Learning Outcomes Develop diverse and equitable teams utilizing inclusive leadership practices Apply effective cross-cultural communication skills and reflective practices to lead change in organizations, industry and communities Lead innovative, cross-functional teams to drive project success Apply ethical decision-making to high stakes workplace scenarios Analyze current market trends to inform brand and marketing strategy Develop change management plans that lead to sustainable organizational transformation Gain the skills needed to make ethical decisions in any organization and in any industry. Our coursework focuses on critical thinking and analysis; data and trends; self awareness and interpersonal and communication techniques; and strategies for managing continual change. Specializations Corporate Communications & Marketing Executive Leadership & Organizational Development Human Resources Management Project Management Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Corporate Communications & Marketing Four specialization courses (in addition to six core courses) Whether you are interested in managing the public relations division of a growing non-profit, working as a project manager for a large corporation or government entity, or marketing your own services or products, our courses are designed to match your interests and industry needs. With a strong core designed around management principles you will be prepared to handle the challenges of this highly competitive and creative field. Flexible Options Designed as a full- or part-time course of study, the M.S. in Leadership and Administration is tailored to professionals looking to advance. We offer evening and hybrid (a combination of online and on campus meetings) courses, allowing you to continue working while in the program. Required Courses Course Number Course Name ADGR 8006 Communication in a Global Work Environment ADGR 8045 Public Relations & Crisis Communications ADGR 8120 Marketing Analytics ADGR 8200 Social Influence Executive Leadership & Organizational Development Four specialization courses (in addition to six core courses) The Executive Leadership and Organizational Development specialization at Boston College develops a new generation of agile and ethical stewards of high performing and sustainable organizations. Through coursework with the Jesuit principles as the foundation, students will learn the benefit of self-reflection and contemplation to inform the design and execution of business strategy in complex organizations. The Executive leadership and organizational specialization focuses on business alignment, change agility, managing shifting demands, and inspiring a culture of advocacy and engagement. Flexible Options Designed as a full- or part-time course of study, the M.S. in Executive Leadership and Organizational Development is tailored to professionals looking to advance. We offer evening and hybrid (a combination of online and on campus meetings) courses, allowing you to continue working while in the program. Required Courses Course Number Course Name ADGR 8010 Leader as Change Agent ADGR 8015 Business Strategy ADGR 8030 Talent Management ADGR 8046 Organization Theory & Design Human Resources Management Four specialization courses (in addition to six core courses) Organizations are increasingly looking to their Human Resource function as a strategic partner in evolving their business strategy and responding to changing workforce needs. To be a trusted and impactful human resources practitioner today you need to have the knowledge and skills to enable strategic change and reshape workforce practices. The Human Resources Management specialization at Boston College, utilizing Jesuit principles as its foundation, helps you gain the competencies needed to guide and influence leaders in building healthy and sustainable organizations; create practices to attract, develop and engage talent to meet the organizations needs; and lead with confidence, objectivity, and credibility. Flexible Options Designed as a full- or part-time course of study, the M.S. in Human Resource Management is tailored to professionals looking to advance. We offer evening and hybrid (a combination of online and on campus meetings) courses, allowing you to continue working while in the program. Required Courses Course Number Course Name ADGR 8030 Talent Management ADGR 8053 Employment and Labor Law ADGR 8055 Human Resource Development ADGR 8090 Workforce Planning Project Management Four specialization courses (in addition to six core courses) The Project Management sector is projected to grow by 6 million jobs in the United States by 2020 and by an even greater number internationally. The critical skills and perspectives required by today's project managers continue to evolve and expand as projects become increasingly complex and time more constrained. The Project Management specialization is designed to provide the adaptive management and problem solving skills you need to succeed in this exciting field. You will learn how to effectively plan projects, and manage and mitigate risk while maintaining high standards of quality. The program will also further develop your team management skills and expand strategies and perspectives on how to balance the competing demands of various stakeholders involved in a project. With a curriculum grounded in the Ignatian tradition, you will learn how to approach professional decisions with discernment and ethical sensitivity. Graduates will go on to apply their versatile skill set within a wide variety of professional domains - including information technology, healthcare management, cybersecurity and more. Flexible Options Designed as a full- or part-time course of study, the M.S. in Project Management is tailored to professionals looking to advance. We offer evening and hybrid (a combination of online and on campus meetings) courses, allowing you to continue working while in the program. Required Courses Course Number Course Name ADGR 8110 Agile Methodologies ADGR 8130 Risk Management/Quality Management ADGR 8201 Agile Product Ownership ADGR 8203 Stakeholder Management and Procurement Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Four specialization courses (in addition to six core courses) Now more than ever, there is rapid, increasing demand for diversity officers and professionals with specific experience and certification in DEI. Further, the field of DEI is experiencing significant growth due to nation-wide efforts demanding social justice, with a growth rate of 113% in the past five years. The concentration in DEI aims to offer courses that help organizational managers, directors and leaders prepare themselves and their offices for enduring, long-term solutions that advance equity for all. Flexible Options Designed as a full- or part-time course of study, the M.S. in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion is tailored to professionals looking to advance. We offer evening and hybrid (a combination of online and on campus meetings) courses, allowing you to continue working while in the program. Required Courses Fundamentals/Foundations of DEI Bias in the Workplace Building Inclusive Organizational Cultures Implementing Successful DEI Strategies Financial Aid We know that a BC education is a worthwhile but significant investment. We're committed to helping you affordably achieve your educational goals while treating each student and their family equitably. Financial aid and payment plans may be available for students taking a minimum of six credits across a semester. Graduate Student Aid Our Faculty Learn from professionals with decades of experience—practitioners who are actively in the field and translate their hands-on knowledge to the classroom. View More View Less “In Dr. Noone’s class, I’m learning how the Ignatian Pedagogical Paradigm (IPP) molds the learning environment to the student based on their life experiences in order to enhance the outcome for each individual. This is exactly what I encountered so far at BC. The professors and classes are amazing. I can’t say enough great things about my experience here.” Lyle Van Horn, Current Student Nondegree Student Options Students interested in exploring the Leadership & Administration program prior to submitting an entire application may enroll in select courses as a non-degree student. Up to two courses may be taken as a nondegree student. The course options are: Inclusive Leadership and Project Management More About Nondegree Options Careers Director, Program Management Office, S&P Global, Market Intelligence Senior Analyst for Acute Inside Sales, Cardinal Health Volunteer and Operations Officer, Strong Women Strong Girls External Affairs Associate, Malden Catholic High School Benefits Specialist, Human Resources Department, Mid-sized law firm in Boston Employment Placement Specialist, Year Up Boston Advisory Board Lauren Bent Associate Professor, EdD in Higher Education Leadership; Regis College Jenny Gumm Senior Director L&OD at Vir Biotechnology, Inc. Juan Lopera Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer at Beth Israel Lahey Health Scott Madden Senior Partner/Director of Empathy and Evolution, Connelly Partners Brian McDonald Head of Human Resources, Fidelity Investments, Personal Investing Foster Mobley Chairman and Founder, FMG Leading Setti Warren Executive Director, Harvard Kennedy School Institute of Politics Paul J. Waystack Chief Financial Officer, Eastern Real Estate Apply Apply Print Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. View Articulation Agreements Application & Deadlines Application fee: $60 (to be paid as part of the online application) Start Your Application If you are mailing a hard copy of any application materials, please send them to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Entrance Term: Application Due Date: Decision Letter Sent By: Fall Early Deadline: May 1 June 1 Regular Deadline: June 15 (International Students applying for Fall must submit an application by June 15th.) July 15 Rolling admissions after Regular deadline. Applications will be reviewed on a case by case basis. Spring Early Deadline: October 15 (International Students applying for spring must submit an application by October 15th Applications received after October 15th will be considered for the summer semester.) November 15 Preferred Deadline: November 15 December 15 Applications will be accepted after November 15 and reviewed on a case by case basis, pending availability. Students are encouraged to apply after November 15. Summer Early Deadline: March 1 April 1 Regular Deadline: April 1 (International Students applying for summer I must submit an application by March 1st. Summer 2 applicants must submit an application by April 1st.) May 1 Rolling admissions after Regular deadline. Applications will be reviewed on a case by case basis, pending availability. Résumé To be uploaded to your online Application Form Standardized Tests The Woods College MS in Leadership and Administration does not require the GRE or GMAT for admissions. If you believe your scores would enhance your application, please feel free to submit them. Our GRE reporting code is 7534 and our GMAT reporting code is 44X-HX-07. For all non-native English speakers the TOEFL (reporting code 3276) or IELTS (if applicable) is required. Please view the international page for required test scores. If your undergraduate degree was conducted in English, you may be eligible for a TOEFL waiver. Please contact Woods College Admissions if you believe you qualify for a waiver. International Applicant Info Letters of Recommendation Two letters of recommendation are required. If you have been out of school for less than 5 years, one of these letters must speak to your academic abilities and should come from a professor, academic advisor, or other person who would be able to discuss your academic record. We prefer that one letter of recommendation be from an academic source, and another from an employer or person in a supervisory capacity who can speak about your interests and experience. Letters must be sent directly from recommender either through online application portal or directly to Woods College. We will not accept letters that are not in a sealed envelope mailed directly from recommender or emailed directly from recommender. Please note: Letters of recommendations should be provided by Professional or Academic recommenders. Transcripts Unofficial transcripts may be uploaded to your online Application Form for purposes of application review. However, official transcript(s) must also be submitted upon acceptance/matriculation. Both undergraduate and graduate transcripts are required. Please mail transcripts to: Boston College Woods College of Advancing Studies Admissions Office St. Mary's Hall South 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 If your academic institution provides electronic transcripts please indicate wcasadm@bc.edu as the recipient. Boston College Alumni and Current Students Your BC transcript must be formally requested from the Office of Student Services and submitted to the Woods College. Woods cannot request or access transcripts independently. Transcript Requests Official Transcript Submission for International Applicants All students who have, or are currently attending, an institution outside of the United States must provide a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation indicating the conferral of an undergraduate degree that is equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution. This evaluation is not just an English translation, but a document provided by an accredited evaluating agency that shows all grades, course titles, credit hours, United States degree equivalency, grade-point average (GPA), and date of degree conferral. This detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation must be submitted to complete the application. Please request a detailed, course-by-course transcript evaluation for all international institutions where a degree was conferred from one of the following agencies: Educational Credential Evaluators P.O. Box 514070 Milwaukee, WI 53203-3470 www.ece.org Center for Educational Documentation P.O. Box 170116 Boston, MA 02117 www.cedevaluations.com World Education Services Inc. P.O. Box 5087 Bowling Green Station New York, NY 10274-5087 www.wes.org Applicants whose Native language is not English are required to demonstrate English language proficiency, for required scores, visit our International Student page. International Student page Interview For all international students and non-native English speakers, interviews are conducted as part of the application process. The purpose of the interview is for the admission committee to gain a better sense of an applicant and how the program fits his or her academic and vocational needs. Additionally, the interview provides the committee an opportunity to answer a student’s specific questions and to address the unique needs one may have in transitioning to Boston College. The interview will last no more than 15 minutes. Qualified applicants will receive information on how to schedule an interview once their application has been received and initially evaluated. Personal Statement To be uploaded to your online Application Form. In 750-1000 words, describe your academic and professional goals, any experience relevant to this program, and your future plans, expectations, and aspirations. Questions If you have additional questions not listed here, please contact Program Director Elisabeth Hiles. Do you offer admission to international applicants? Yes, international applicants are welcome to apply and upon formal admission, are eligible for a student visa. (Please note that TOEFL or IELTS scores are required.) Please note international students pursuing the program with a student visa will need to complete the program in 1.5 years (3 academic semesters). What if my GPA is not a 3.0? Am I still eligible to apply for the program? Yes, you are welcome to apply. We will consider your application and weigh a variety of factors to determine whether we are able to offer you admission. For particular applicants, we may be able to grant admission into the program with particular conditions noted (for example, passing the first two courses with a B or better in each during the first semester). Is there an option to take courses as a nondegree student? Yes, qualified, accepted non-degree students may enroll in select non-degree courses. Please review the process and course options. Nondegree Options How much does the program cost? Tuition and financial aid information can be found on the tuition and aid webpage. Tuition & Aid Do you offer graduate course credit transfer? Students can transfer in up to 6 credits (usually equivalent to 2 courses). Decisions on whether to accept transfer credits will depend on an assessment of whether the courses to be transferred fit within the Masters of Science in Leadership and Administration curriculum. How long does it take to complete the degree? This is variable and is largely based on how many courses a student takes at any given time. If you take 2 courses per semester, you can complete the degree in 18 months. Can students work full-time and pursue this degree? This is certainly a possibility and we have designed the program to be flexible to accommodate a variety of scheduling needs. Do you offer graduate student housing? No. Boston College does not currently offer housing for graduate students but our Office of Residential Life does have a staff member who can help you find off-campus housing. Inquire Get More Information Loading... Quick Links Advising Take a Course as a Nondegree Student Why Woods? Diversity & Inclusion Events Back To Top Back To Top Woods College of Advancing Studies St. Mary's Hall South, Ground Floor Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts 02467 617-552-3900 woodscollege@bc.edu About Admission Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Community Apply Contact Give Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College