Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search TAMUG Mission Statement Accreditation Academics Texas A&M Maritime Academy The Island Campus Students Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans About Texas A&M University at Galveston is the source for all things “ocean-oriented” at Texas A&M University. TAMUG offers a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, liberal arts, and transportation. Spotlight Link 1 TAMUG Mission Statement Spotlight Link 2 Accreditation Spotlight Link 3 Academics Spotlight Link 4 Texas A&M Maritime Academy Spotlight Link 5 The Island Campus Spotlight Link 6 Students TAMUG Mission Statement Texas A&M Galveston is a special-purpose institution of higher education for undergraduate and graduate instruction in marine and maritime studies in science, engineering and business and for research and public service related to the general field of marine resources. The institution is under the management and control of the Board of Regents of The Texas A&M University System, with degrees offered under the name and authority of Texas A&M University at College Station. History of TAMUG TAMUG Videos Accreditation Texas A&M University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, doctorate, and professional levels. Questions about the accreditation of Texas A&M University may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling (404) 679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC's website (www.sacscoc.org). As a branch campus, Texas A&M University at Galveston is included in the institution's accreditation. Back to topBack to top Academics TAMUG offers ocean-oriented, four-year courses with excellence in business, oceanographic and physical sciences, biological sciences, engineering and transportation and liberal arts. Degrees are awarded from Texas A&M University. Computer science and technical writing courses are taught across curricula, regardless of a student’s major field. In every course each semester, formally administered questionnaires invite students to appraise the effectiveness of teaching. Several unique courses have been developed in response to the University’s marine orientation. For instance, "Literature of the Sea" looks at the sea through the works of great authors. "Introduction to Marine Sciences" introduces students to a number of disciplines through lectures, seminars and industrial contacts. The cruise geography course emphasizes the port areas being visited. Academic Departments Majors & Minors Academic Calendar University Catalog Back to topBack to top Texas A&M Maritime Academy The Texas A&M Maritime Academy provides an opportunity for students to learn how to operate and maintain an ocean-going vessel. In addition to classroom and field training during the regular school year, students sail aboard the Texas A&M training ship during three summer cruises to gain practical experience in seamanship, navigation, and operations. Cruises may include Northern Europe, the Caribbean, the Mediterranean and the United States. At the conclusion of the program, Midshipmen are tested to become licensed as officers in the U.S. Merchant Marine and may seek employment in the exciting field of marine transportation as a licensed Third Mate or Third Assistant Engineer. The NROTC Program offers men and women an opportunity to qualify for a commission in the Navy while attending TAMUG. Any student may join the NROTC Program either as a National Scholarship winner or as a non-subsidized college program student. Texas A&M Maritime Academy Back to topBack to top The Island Campus The island location of the campus on Galveston Bay and near the open ocean is in symmetry with the ocean-oriented academic programs offered at TAMUG. The Mitchell Campus, situated on the Galveston harbor and close to the confluence of the Galveston and Houston ship channels, has immediate access to the ocean and to estuarine areas including Galveston Bay. The Port of Galveston and Port of Houston are nearby, as are many Gulf Coast industries. Campus life is enhanced by the cultural and social activities in Galveston. Galveston Island was once the financial center of the South. Today, the city has become a major tourist center with a strong representation of marine and maritime interests. College dances have been held in the Ashton Villa Ballroom (a restored 1859 mansion), in the Garten Verein (a restored octagonal dancing pavilion in Kempner Park) and aboard the Elissa and the Colonel. The Grand 1894 Opera House, the Lone Star Amphitheater and other local theaters allow TAMUG students involvement in theater events. The new Moody Gardens Conference Center boasts the Southwest’s finest 3-D Digital IMAX theater and a unique tropical garden pyramid biome. The city has several historical districts, museums and musical groups including the Galveston Symphony Orchestra and the Galveston Beach Band. Back to topBack to top Students A common trait of all TAMUG students is a desire to work and study amid an ocean environment. Our students originate from 42 different states and the District of Columbia. Science and engineering majors number 71 percent of the student body; 40 percent are women and about 59 percent receive some type of financial aid. The Galveston campus of Texas A&M University houses the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, which is one of six maritime academies in the U.S. preparing graduates for licensing as officers in the American Merchant Marine. Back to topBack to top About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System