Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Degree Programs HomeJDJD/MBAJD/MA in Pol. ScienceJD/MPHMPH Fast-TrackPart-time Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs HomeAdvocacyBusiness LawHealth LawTax Law Experiential Learning Experiential Learning HomeLegal ClinicsExternship Program Law Review Law Review HomeEditorial BoardEditor-in-ChiefJoining Law ReviewVirtual Tour of Law Review SuiteSymposiumSubscriptionsArchivesCurrent VolumeConnect with Us Advocacy Program Moot Court Board Joining Moot Court Board In-School Competitions Travel Team Competitions Past Champions Inst. for Health Law & Policy Legal Methods Program Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law Programs Advocacy Program In-school Competitions Advocacy Program In-school Competitions IN-SCHOOL COMPETITIONS Advanced Moot Court Competition The Advanced Moot Court Competition begins shortly after Labor Day. This competition gives second- and third-year students the opportunity to practice and improve skills in appellate advocacy. Teams of two students write an appellate brief and then present oral arguments. Each team argues both the petitioner's and respondent's position. The brief is due in September and the competition begins in October. First-year students may serve as bailiffs during oral arguments, giving them an opportunity to observe appellate advocacy before competing in the Freshman Moot Court Competition in the spring semester. Participation as a bailiff does not count toward Moot Court credit. Scores on the brief and from oral arguments are a factor determining eligibility for membership on the Moot Court Board. Successful completion of the competition goes toward obtaining credit for graduation. The problem for the Advanced Moot Court Competition is prepared under the direction of the Associate Justice for the Advanced Competition and is distributed as a part of the Advanced Appellate Advocacy curriculum. Past winners: Rebecca Holden and Tyler Tollison (2016) Dylan Gillespie and McKenzie Reed (2015) Topic: Panhandlers' First and Fourth Amendment Rights If you have any questions regarding this competition, please contact Whitney Trujillo, the Associate Justice for the Advanced Competition, at wpsipple@memphis.edu A student's perspective: "Working with a partner makes this competition slightly less nerve-wracking than the Freshman. I had a great experience. I believe both my oral argument skills and courtroom demeanor improved during the competition. I received constructive criticism that was helpful." - Madison Patey Mock Trial Competition The Mock Trial Competition is held at the beginning of each spring semester. It is open to second- and third-year students, offering them an opportunity to practice and improve skills in trial advocacy. Two-person teams submit a a motion and trial notebook and participate in a mock trial. Each team represents both the plaintiff and the defendant. The plaintiff team for each round must provide two witnesses and a bailiff. The defendant also must provide two witnesses. It is each team's duty to ensure that witnesses are briefed and prepared to testify. Participating as a witness or a bailiff provides first-year students with an opportunity to experience trial advocacy. Participation as a bailiff or a witness does not count towards Moot Court credit. Students need not have completed Trial Advocacy or Evidence in order to compete successfully, although it is suggested. Scores on the trial notebook and from performance on oral arguments are factors in determining eligibility for membership on the Moot Court Board. Successful completion of the competition goes towards obtaining credit for graduation. Past winners: Patrick Hillard and Dominique Winfrey (2017) Will Hampton and Quynh-Anh Dang (2016) If you have any questions regarding this competition, please contact Lan Chen, the Associate Justice for Mock Trial at lchen@memphis.edu. First Year Moot Court Competition The First Year Moot Court Competition begins after Spring Break. The First Year Moot Court Competition is open only to first-year students. The competition is held each year during the spring semester, providing first-year students with the opportunity to practice and improve skills in appellate advocacy. Teams of two present oral arguments based on the Legal Methods II appellate brief assignment. Each team member argues both the petitioner's and respondent's position. The scores for the competition are based solely on performance during the oral arguments. The petitioner team must provide the bailiff for the round. The bailiff may be anyone who is not currently a participant in the competition. Scores from performance during oral arguments are a factor in determining eligibility for membership on the Moot Court Board. Successful completion of the competition goes toward obtaining Moot Court credit for graduation. The problem for the First Year Moot Court Competition is written by members of the Moot Court Board under the direction of the Associate Justice for the First Year Competition and is distributed as a part of the Legal Methods II curriculum. Past winners: Alan Matthews (2017) Maggie McGowan (2016) Zach Johnson (2015) Preston Battle (2014) If you have any questions regarding this competition, please contact Rebecca Holden, the Associate Justice for the First Year Competition, at rrholden@memphis.edu. A student's perspective: "This competition requires one to be flexible, because you never know what questions you will get from a judge. Win or lose, this competition is a great experience. Everyone's in the same boat, which means you have the potential to be the best if you drop your nerves and give it your all!" - Ashley Finch Pointers for Credit-Worthy Oral Arguments Judges typically look for: Forensic Ability Knowledge of the Law Responsiveness to Questions Argument Form Argument Substance Appropriate Attire Deference to the Court Persuasiveness Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/4/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.