Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Chemistry Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Graduate Undergraduate Postdocs Events News Facilities Alumni Diversity Search Home Department News Graduate Students Honored Apr 13, 2022 Two of our exceptional graduate students have been honored for their scholarship and teaching. Colton Sheehan (Mallouk group) has been awarded a National Science Foundation Graduate research…Read More Joe Francisco Receives Gibbs Medal Jan 26, 2022 President’s Distinguished Professor Joseph Francisco has been selected as the recipient of the 2022 Willard Gibbs Medal. The Gibbs Medal is awarded by the Chicago Section of the American Chemical…Read More Zahra Fakhraai Receives ACS WCC Award Oct 13, 2021 Professor Zahra Fakhraai has been named a recipient of a 2021 Rising Star Award from the Women Chemists Committee of the American Chemical Society. The WCC Rising Star Award recognizes up to ten…Read More Marisa Kozlowski Named 2022 Cope Scholar Sep 27, 2021 Prof. Marisa Kozlowski has been named one of 10 Arthur C. Cope Scholars by the American Chemical Society. Cope Scholars are awarded annually to recognize and encourage excellence in organic chemistry…Read More Department Alum Honored with Blavatnik Regional Award Sep 27, 2021 Daniel Straus, who received his Ph.D. with Cherie Kagan in 2018, has been chosen to receive Blavatnik Young Scientist Regional Award from the Blavatnik Family Foundation. Daniel is currently a…Read More Grad student Marie Shimogawa honored Jun 29, 2021 Marie Shimogawa, a rising third-year graduate student in James Petersson's research group, has been recognized with a scholarship from the Nakajima Foundation in her home country of Japan. The…Read More Penn Chemistry Alum Ei-ichi Negishi Passes Away Jun 11, 2021 The Department of Chemistry at Penn mourns the passing of Ei-ichi Negishi (GR'62, HON'11). Prof. Negishi graduated from the University of Tokyo in 1958 before coming to America as a Fulbright Scholar…Read More Joseph Francisco elected to the Leopoldina Apr 20, 2021 Prof. Joseph Francisco, President’s Distinguished Professor, has been elected to the Leopoldina. The Leopoldina originated in 1652 as a classical scholarly society and now has 1,600 members from…Read More Chemistry Personnel Honored with Penn Awards Apr 12, 2021 Several Chemistry Department members of have been recognized by the University of Pennsylvania and the School of Arts and Sciences for their efforts this year. Prof. Marisa Kozlowski will receive…Read More Jessica Anna Honored by NSF Apr 5, 2021 Assistant Professor Jessica Anna has been selected to receive a National Science Foundation Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) Award. The project, titled Elucidating the Interplay…Read More Message From the Chair Penn Chemistry is committed to providing an open, safe, and engaging environment in which all persons are welcome and respected. We are a diverse group of faculty, staff, and students, and our strength derives from our diversity. Whoever you are and wherever you are on your journey of scholarship in the molecular sciences, you are welcome here at Penn Chemistry. - David W. Christianson Read More Research Highlights Tom Mallouk Tom Mallouk and his research group have developed microscale "rockets" powered by acoustic waves and an onboard bubble motor that may one day navigate through landscapes of cells and blood vessels inside the human body. Read all about this exciting technology at the CBC Radio website. Andrew Rappe A new paper in the Journal of the American Chemical Society authored by Chemistry Professor Andrew Rappe and his research group describes a new approach for synthesizing organic “Legos” that can be easily connected to make new materials. This framework creates structures that are lightweight,… Visit us on Twitter Follow the official page of the University of Pennsylvania Chemistry Department to stay up to date with our latest news. PennChemistry Donate Resources Scholar Appointment Process Information for New Students Information for Post Docs Forms Important Links Business Class Travel Penn Chemistry Anonymous Reporting Form Contact Us Department of Chemistry 231 S. 34 Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6323 web@chem.upenn.edu Phone: 215.898.8317 Fax: 215.573.2112 David W. Christianson Department Chair Daniel J. Mindiola Graduate Chair Jeffrey D. Winkler Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin