skip to content Menu x We've Redesigned! The College of Liberal Arts has launched a redesign of this site (and all of our other department, center, and unit sites). All information from the previous site is still available, but may have been moved. You can use the MENU button on the top right to find the information you are looking for and don't forget to update your bookmarks. × Bonfire Shelter Val Verde County, TX Welcome to the Texas Archeological Research Laboratory! TARL's Mission: To collect, preserve, and curate archeological specimens and records. The lab also trains students, conducts archeological research and disseminates information about Texas' vast archeological legacy.Learn More We are currently full for Spring 2022 volunteers and interns, but please contact Annie Riegert if you would like to be added to our waitlist. Texas Archeology Month Every October, we celebrate the vast and rich history of Texas archeology. Our state is diverse not only in its climates and landscapes, but also its peoples and their cultures. Follow the link below to view our past archeological activities, and check back here Fall 2022 for updates on new events and kits!Learn More Looking to curate at TARL? The TARL repository currently accepts a variety of collections and records for curation. These artifacts are stored in our state of the art facilities, for a fee. Click below for further information and instructions on how to proceed. Learn More TARL Store Check out our new TARL store to pay invoicing, purchase merchandising, memberships, and much more! Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More New TBH Exhibit: Radiocarbon Dating The radiocarbon dating method, the most relied-upon scientific dating tool used in archeology today, estimates the ages of organic materials—wood charcoal, bones, basketry, and much more. The dawn of radiocarbon dating in the late 1940s and 1950s upset archeological chronologies around the world; time and time again, things and cultures proved to be older (or younger) than experts had reasoned. Today’s archeologists routinely send off samples to be dated, yet radiocarbon dating methods remain poorly understood by many archeologists, avocational and professional alike. This exhibit explains the intricacies of radiocarbon dating to serious students of archeology and science lovers to help guide the wielding of this powerful tool. Archeologist and TBH Assistant Editor Emily McCuistion wrote the Radiocarbon Dating exhibit. Emily and TBH Editor Steve Black designed and developed the exhibit for the web, with assistance from Liberal Arts Instructional Technology Services (LAITS) at UT-Austin. E. Thomas Miller of Kerrville, Texas bequeathed support for this exhibit.Learn More News: Events: Texas Beyond History Center for Archaeological and Tropical Studies Prehistory Research Project TARL Blog Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021