Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager For Faculty and Staff For Alumni For Students For Potential Students Biomed A-Z People Directory Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program Show/Hide Home About Us Residency Program Curriculum Core Anatomic Pathology Rotations Core Clinical Pathology Rotations Conference Schedule Sample Rotation Schedule Research Opportunities Program Governance Application Process Compensation and Benefits Medical Student Education Fellowships Don B. Singer Fellowship in Developmental Pediatric Pathology GI and Liver Pathology Fellowship International Visiting Women's and Perinatal Pathology Fellowship Neuropathology Fellowship Stuart C. Lauchlan Fellowship in Women’s Pathology (Gynecologic, Breast, and Cytopathology) Surgical Pathology Fellowship Research Opportunities Digital Pathology Library GI and Liver Pathology Fellowship The department offers a one-year ACGME-accredited training program in gastrointestinal and liver pathology. The fellow will be exposed to specimens from biopsies, surgical specimens and consultation cases encompassing a wide variety of diseases of the alimentary tract, liver and pancreas including pediatric specimens. There is an excellent mix of non-neoplastic, and neoplastic case material. The importance of clinicopathologic correlation and consultation with our clinician colleagues is stressed. Program Details The responsibilities of the fellow include daily case preparation of all luminal and liver biopsy material and review with the surgical pathology GI subspecialty team. A significant proportion of the more complex GI, liver and pancreatic resections are also reviewed by the fellow. Fellow are mentored by senior level attending pathologists with expertise in GI, liver and pancreatic pathology. The fellow is expected to reach the level of a “junior attending” during their fellowship. The fellows prepare and present weekly GI tumor board, adult and pediatric medical GI conferences and a monthly IBD (inflammatory bowel disease) conference. Fellows actively participate in the teaching and supervision of pathology residents and medical students. Clinical, clinicopathological and translational research projects are encouraged. Gastrointestinal and Liver Pathology Program Manual Application Process Prospective fellows should send inquiries to: Evgeny Yakirevich, MD, DSc Program Director [email protected] Faculty Evgeny Yakirevich, MD, D.Sc. Professor of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine View Profile Fellows Ayesha Siddique, MD Read more about Ayesha Siddique, MD Alumni Weibiao Cao, MD, PhD (2011-2012) Andres Matoso, MD (2012-2013) Shaolei Lu, MD, PhD (2013-2014) Kenneth Friedman, MD (2014-2015) Stephanie Wood, MD (2015-2016) Lisa Laskiewicz, MD (2016-2017) Gabriel Acosta Gonzalez, MD (2017-2018) Priyanka Patil, MD (2019-2020) April Whitaker, MD (2020-2021) Don B. Singer Fellowship in Developmental Pediatric Pathology GI and Liver Pathology Fellowship International Visiting Women's and Perinatal Pathology Fellowship Neuropathology Fellowship Stuart C. Lauchlan Fellowship in Women’s Pathology (Gynecologic, Breast, and Cytopathology) Surgical Pathology Fellowship Research Opportunities Brown Biology and Medicine Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Warren Alpert Medical School Program in Biology Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty and Staff Potential Students Alumni Contact Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program Pathology Residency and Fellowship Program The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University c/o Rhode Island Hospital 593 Eddy Street, APC11-42A Providence, RI 02903 Phone: 401-444-5057 Fax: 401-444-8514 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Division of Biology and Medicine Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, RI 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn SnapChat