Skip to Content Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Close Alumni Association Alumni Association Menu Main menu Home Programs Programs Volunteer Mentor, support, connect. Roaming Buffs Travel the world with your herd. Senior Auditors Learn with CU students. Scholarships Support current Buffs. Buffalo Legacy Make CU a family tradition. Benefits Benefits Career Services Take the next step in your profession. CU License Plates Drive with Buffs pride. Alumni Shop Stock up on the latest CU gear. Rent a Venue Host your next event in Boulder. Alumni Discounts Save just by being an alum. Insurance Coverage Protect you and yours. Experiences Experiences Year Round Forever Buffs Spotlight Coloradan Conversations CU at Home Fall Buffs Bash: Football Homecoming Ralphie's Corral Watch Parties Winter Buffs at the Butte Chancellor's Annual Summit CU Night at the Stock Show CU Night at Zoo Lights Spring Buffs Bash: Basketball Career Conference CU in D.C. Dinner with 12 Buffs Grad Bash Summer CU Night at the Rockies Forever Buffs Golf Classic Communities Communities Groups to Join Regional Chapters Find Buffs near you. Clubs Connect with like-minded alums. ForeverGold Help move CU forward. Alumni Board Volunteer your expertise. Colleges & Schools Reconnect based on your major. Herd Leadership Council Students making an impact. More Ways to Connect Forever Buffs Network Network virtually with Buffs. Buffs Businesses Support alumni entrepreneurs. CU Stories CU Stories Coloradan Alumni Magazine Read up on the latest CU news. The Heritage Center Explore the history of campus. Notable Alumni Celebrate Buffs who made a difference. About About Email Address: contactalumni@colorado.edu Physical Address: Koenig Alumni Center 1202 University Avenue Campus Box 459 Boulder, CO 80309 Phone Number: 303-492-8484 Visit Find a specific alumni team contact. Update your Information Stay connected with Forever Buffs. Frequently Asked Questions How can we help? Secondary Menu Support Mobile menu Home Programs Benefits Experiences Communities CU Stories About Support The impact of your alma mater and the connections you make as a student can last a lifetime. Each individual who’s been touched by CU Boulder is uniquely a Forever Buff, but together, we are Forever Buffs. This 300,000-strong network shares an educational history and impacts the future with initiatives that make a real difference on campus and around the world. Connect with your fellow Forever Buffs through meaningful experiences, take advantage of valuable resources and stay up to date with campus stories. Update your information to receive the latest Forever Buffs news and learn how to get involved at CU Boulder. This powerful community is stronger with you. CU Chancellor’s State Tour This June, connect with CU Boulder Chancellor Philip DiStefano, CU Athletic Director Rick George and leading faculty to learn about the latest research and developments on issues faced by Colorado residents. Share a meal with fellow alumni, parents, donors and community members at this free gathering that highlights the important work of students, faculty and staff — including the local impact of climate change on Colorado communities. Register Communities Wherever you roam, there is a community of Forever Buffs waiting for you. Get involved at a local level with regional chapters, and connect with like-minded friends in clubs. The Forever Buffs Network also offers opportunities to network and mentor virtually! Find Your Forever Buffs Family Coloradan Alumni Magazine The Coloradan alumni magazine features stories from the CU Boulder community to engage alumni, students, supporters and friends with the university. This spring, the Coloradan focuses on the future of work — what's new, what's changed and what could be coming — in addition to coverage of the Marshall Fire and other CU-centered stories. Read the Latest Issue Alumni Career Services As you enter the working world and navigate different stages of your career, alumni career services can help you succeed. As a Forever Buff, you have access to a lifetime of career advising. So, whether you need to freshen up a résumé or prep for an interview, let us help you land your first post-graduate job — or your dream job. Boost Your Career Connection Opportunities There’s a way for every Forever Buff to connect with CU and each other through alumni events. From spirited football tailgates with appearances by Ralphie to panels featuring top-notch faculty and notable alumni discussing the day’s most important topics, plus family-friendly nights at the ballpark and more, find the CU experience that’s right for you. Attend Upcoming Events The impact of your alma mater and the connections you make as a student can last a lifetime. Each individual who’s been touched by CU Boulder is uniquely a Forever Buff, but together, we are Forever Buffs. This 300,000-strong network shares an educational history and impacts the future with initiatives that make a real difference on campus and around the world. Connect with your fellow Forever Buffs through meaningful experiences, take advantage of valuable resources and stay up to date with campus stories. Update your information to receive the latest Forever Buffs news and learn how to get involved at CU Boulder. This powerful community is stronger with you. CU Chancellor’s State Tour This June, connect with CU Boulder Chancellor Philip DiStefano, CU Athletic Director Rick George and leading faculty to learn about the latest research and developments on issues faced by Colorado residents. Share a meal with fellow alumni, parents, donors and community members at this free gathering that highlights the important work of students, faculty and staff — including the local impact of climate change on Colorado communities. Register Communities Wherever you roam, there is a community of Forever Buffs waiting for you. Get involved at a local level with regional chapters, and connect with like-minded friends in clubs. The Forever Buffs Network also offers opportunities to network and mentor virtually! Find Your Forever Buffs Family Coloradan Alumni Magazine The Coloradan alumni magazine features stories from the CU Boulder community to engage alumni, students, supporters and friends with the university. This spring, the Coloradan focuses on the future of work — what's new, what's changed and what could be coming — in addition to coverage of the Marshall Fire and other CU-centered stories. Read the Latest Issue Alumni Career Services As you enter the working world and navigate different stages of your career, alumni career services is here to help you succeed. As a Forever Buff, you have access to a lifetime of career advising. So, whether you need to freshen up a résumé or prep for an interview, let us help you land your first post-graduate job — or your dream job. Boost Your Career Connection Opportunities There’s a way for every Forever Buff to connect with CU and each other through alumni events. From spirited football tailgates with appearances by Ralphie to panels featuring top-notch faculty and notable alumni discussing the day’s most important topics, plus family-friendly nights at the ballpark and more, find the CU experience that’s right for you. Attend Upcoming Events Home Partners Alumni Association 1202 University Avenue, 459 UCB Boulder, CO 80309-0459 303-492-8484 • 800-492-7743 contactalumni@colorado.edu University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Privacy • Legal & Trademarks • Campus Map Return to the top of the page