Skip navigation Find: A to Z Index People Directory Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About Facilities History More @ Brown Programs Sock & Buskin Student Groups People Undergraduate Graduate Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Brown About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory m.Brown.edu News Events Visit Campus Life Map Directory Brown Apps Safety About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Theatre Arts and Performance Studies About Facilities Facilities Please note that TAPS is following Brown University's COVID-19 policies. Our open areas and swipe access have been suspended while the buidling is vacant. Please do not attempt to access any departmental space until normal access to University spaces is restored, except in the select circumstances as outlined by the Provost. Here's a link to the latest COVID-19 updates for additional information. The Department of Theatre Arts and Performance Studies is housed in the Catherine Bryan Dill Center for the Performing Arts. Click here for directions to the TAPS facilities. Lyman Hall was Brown's first gymnasium. It was first renovated in the 1970s as part of an effort to expand the performing arts at Brown with new facilities including Leeds Theatre, Becker Library, Ashamu Dance Studio as well as office space, dressing rooms, rehearsal spaces and classrooms. It was renovated again in 2008. Leeds Theatre, one of our two mainstage theatres, is located in Lyman Hall. Its lobby is the covered breezeway (between Lyman and Solomon Halls) which has two entrances. One doorway opens opens onto Simmons Quad across from the Marcus Aurelius statue. The other entrance opens onto the Dill Center for the Performing Arts courtyard and is visible from Waterman Street between Stuart Theatre and the Building for Environmental Research and Teaching. The Leeds Box Office is located in this breezeway. The courtyard entrance is wheelchair accessible. The flexible theatre space seats 140 and can be set up as a three quarter thrust stage or in the round. Stuart Theatre, our proscenium space and one of our two mainstage theatres, is located in Faunce House. It was originally built in 1931 as the Faunce House Theatre. It was restored and reopened in 1995 as the Stuart Theatre. The Festival of Dance and the department's commencement ceremony are held in Stuart. It seats 240 and is wheelchair accessible. Faunce also houses the department's costume shop, one of our smaller scene shops, and Strasberg Studio. Strasberg is accessed via the Dill Center Courtyard. The stairs are located to your right as you face the Leeds Theatre Waterman Street entrance. Strasberg seats 50 and is not wheelchair accessible. The John Street Studio is the focal point for the department's design initiative, and provides classrooms, studio space and support for designers at Brown and beyond. Imagined and formed to create a student driven resource for art and design at Brown University, our goal is to encourage a spirit of collaboration among a divergent group of students. At its core the John Street Studio is a home for experiential learning. Our design initiative is committed to fostering cross disciplinary, collaborative art and design across the Brown and RISD community (including RISD/Brown Design for America, Archaeology, the RISD Sculpture department, A Better World by Design and Brown Opera Productions.) John Street is a 15,000 square foot building that includes a wood/metal shop, drafting tables, painting spaces, and open workshop/meeting areas. Related Files SPR20 TAPS Space Usage Guidelines.pdf Also in Theatre Arts and Performance Studies Site Navigation Home About Facilities History More @ Brown Programs Sock & Buskin Student Groups People Undergraduate Graduate Performances & Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1897 83 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401.863.3283 Fax 401.863.7529 [email protected] Performance Calendar Get Tickets Calendar There are no upcoming events. Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Social Media TAPS Facebook TAPS Instagram TAPS YouTube Partnerships Brown Arts Initiative Rites & Reason Theatre Sock & Buskin TAPS Library Guide Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn RSS Futurity