Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > About Us > Columbia Visiting Professorship Program Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program Visiting Professorship Advisory Committee CDM Publications Columbia Visiting Professorship Program Contemporary Issues in Dentistry Panelists at the 2019 Visiting Professor Program Artificial Intelligence in the Practice of Dentistry with Dr. Hod Lipson, Columbia Engineering, and John Morton, Align Technology. 2021 Visiting Professor Program: Current and Future Directions in Oral Diseases Prevention and Control Bruce Dye, DDS, MPH Dental Epidemiologist and Director, Dental Public Health & Informatics Fellowship Program, National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research Saturday, March 6, 2021 11:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time Complimentary program in live webinar format. 5 CE credits awarded. This program is presented in partnership with the Association of Dental Alumni, and with support from Dr. Ralph Kaslick '59, Perio '62. Register Register Program Schedule 11:30-11:45 a.m. Introductions Dr. James B. Fine, Dean Christian Stohler, and Dr. Ralph S. Kaslick '59, Perio '62, Chairman 11:45-12:45 p.m. Visiting Professor Lecture Dr. Bruce Dye Visiting the Space Where Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Interact with the Epidemiology of Caries, Periodontitis, and Oropharyngeal Cancer This presentation is an overview of health promotion and disease prevention concepts, how these activities benefit individuals and populations, and why is it important to understand the difference between risk factors, risk indicators, and socio-determinants of health for preventive interventions to work. This presentation will also briefly cover key elements of the epidemiology of the 3 main noncommunicable oral diseases: dental caries, periodontitis, and oropharyngeal cancer. 12:45-1:15 p.m. Student Scholar Presentation Jamie Larmie, DDS '22 Fluoridation of Water: Has Dentistry Plateaued? Faculty Mentor: Dr. Elizabeth Odinez-Bortfield, Instructor in Dental Medicine (at CUMC), Division of Operative Dentistry 1:15-1:45 p.m. Student Scholar Presentation Teresa Yang, DMD, Perio '21 Paradigm Shifts in Periodontal Disease Management from the Public Health Perspective: Chasing More “Palatable” Choices in a World of Limited Access Faculty Mentor: Dr. Joseph Wang '14, Perio '17, Instructor in Dental Medicine, Division of Periodontics 1:45-2:00 p.m. Break 2:00-2:30 p.m. Student Scholar Presentation Parker Green, DDS '22 Human Papillomavirus and Oropharyngeal Carcinoma: Current and Emerging Trends in Diagnosis, Management and Prevention Faculty Mentor: Dr. Scott Peters '15, OMFP '18, Assistant Professor, Oral Pathology (at CUMC), Division of Oral & Maxillofacial Pathology 2:30-3:30 p.m. Visiting Professor Lecture Dr. Bruce Dye Why a Changing Country Requires a Change in the Current Practice of Prevention to Achieve Better Oral Health Outcomes This presentation reviews current approaches to the prevention and control of the 3 main noncommunicable oral diseases and how changing demographics, preferences, and concerns can potentially impact current preventive approaches. From there, this presentation will identify several preventive interventions that could benefit from a review and shift in focus for a more effective effort at improving health outcomes for individuals and populations in our rapidly changing country. 3:30-4:30 p.m. Panel Discussion Meet the Visiting Professor Bruce Dye, DDS, MPH Dental Epidemiologist and Director, Dental Public Health & Informatics Fellowship Program, National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research Dr. Bruce A. Dye is a Dental Epidemiologist and Director of the Health Informatics and Dental Public Health Fellowship at the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) in partnership with the National Library of Medicine (NLM). His work has focused on the epidemiology of dental diseases and related conditions, research methodology, and public health informatics. He has collaborated on several studies and survey operations both nationally and internationally. Dr. Dye graduated from the Ohio State University with a DDS degree, earned a master’s in public health from the University of Michigan, completed epidemiology training at Johns Hopkins University, and a Dental Public Health residency at NIDCR. He began his career in the US Public Health Service working in Indian Health Service clinics and hospitals in South Dakota and Michigan as a clinical dentist and program director. Later, he worked at the National Center for Health Statistics (a Center within the CDC) as the dental epidemiology officer for the National Health and Nutrition and Examination Survey (NHANES). He has served on several inter-agency workgroups, national committees, and editorial Boards. He is an active diplomate on the American Board of Dental Public Health. He has published more than 90 scientific articles, editorials, and book chapters including co-editing the text book: Dentistry, Dental Practice and the Community (7thed.). Dr. Dye has received awards for achievement and scientific excellence, including those from the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention and the American Academy of Periodontology. Currently, he is co-leading with Dr. Judith Albino the development of the next Surgeon General’s Report on Oral Health. Visiting Professor Program Advisory Committee Dr. Ralph S. Kaslick '59, Perio '62 Chairman, Columbia Visiting Professor Program, Professor and Dean Emeritus, Fairleigh Dickinson University Dr. Christian S. Stohler Professor and Dean, Columbia University College of Dental Medicine, Senior Vice President, Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) Dr. James B. Fine Senior Associate Dean, Graduate Education, Chief Practice Director, Faculty Practices, Professor of Dental Medicine (Periodontics) at CUMC Dr. John Grbic Director, Division of Foundational Sciences, Professor of Dental Medicine at CUMC Dr. Joseph M. McManus Senior Associate Dean of Admissions, Associate Professor of Dental Medicine at CUMC About the Visiting Professor Program To remain a leader in dental medicine, each individual must carefully examine current and future issues-- often controversial-- in our rapidly evolving field. Since 1980, the Columbia Visiting Professor Program at CDM has invited those at the forefront of dental medicine to discuss the evolving field and the professional challenges our students, alumni, and faculty will face. This program is presented in partnership with the Association of Dental Alumni, and with support from Dr. Ralph Kaslick '59, Perio '62. Further information can be found at the Visiting Professor Overview. Past Lecturers 2019: Hod Lipson, PhD and John Morton 2018: Dr. Ronald L. Ettinger 2017: Douglas E. Peterson, DMD, PhD, FDS RCSEd 2016: Donald B. Giddon, DMD, PhD 2015: Marko Vujicic, PhD 2014: Martha J. Somerman, DDS, PhD 2013: Amit Acharya, BDS, MS, PhD 2012: Joseph M. McManus, DMD, MS, MHA, MS 2011: Elizabeth A. Mertz, PhD 2010: Burton Edelstein, DDS, MPH 2009: Teresa A. Dolan, DDS, MPH 2008: Michael Glick, DMD 2007: Richard W. Valachovic, DMD, MPH 2006: Jane A. Weintraub, DDS, MPH 2005: Allan J. Formicola, DDS 2004: Chester W. Douglass, DMD, PhD 2003: Diarmuid B. Shanley, BDS, MA, MSD, DOdont(hon) 2001: Charles Bertalomi, DDS, DMSc 2000: Marjorie K. Jeffcoat, DMD 1999: Dushanka V. Kleinman, DDS, MScD 1998: Brian A. Burt, BDS, MPH, PhD 1997: Harold C. Slavkin, DDS 1996: David E. Barmes, DDSc, MPH 1995: Robert P. Langlais, DDS, MS 1994: Dominick P. DePaola, DDS, PhD 1993: Ben D. Barker, DDS, MEd 1992: David A. Nash, DMD, EdD 1991: Linda C. Niessen, DMD, MPH 1990: Myron Allukian, Jr., DDS, MPH 1989: Irwin D. Mandel, DDS, DSc(Hon) DOdon(Hon) 1988: Thomas J. Ginley, MS, PhD 1987: Lois K.Cohen, PhD 1986: Raymond P. White, Jr., DDS, PhD 1985: Lawrence H. Meskin, DDS, MPH 1984: Seymour I. Nash, DDS 1983: Alvin L. Morris, DDS, PhD 1982: D. Walter Cohen, DDS 1981: Charles A. McCallum, DMD, MD 1980: I. Lawrence Kerr, DDS Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top