Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY ORAL HEALTH SCIENCES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 OHS 201 Planning a Career in Dentistry for the Future (2) S. Coldwell Future-oriented overview of important concepts in dental science, contemporary modes of patient treatment, and dental-care delivery systems. Provides exposure to dentistry as a career and prerequisite materials in oral anatomy, epidemiology, and other basic sciences subjects. Open to all second-, third, and fourth-year undergraduate students. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 201 OHS 449 Undergraduate Research Topics in Oral Biology (*, max. 30) Individual research on topics selected in collaboration with a faculty member. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 449 OHS 550 P-Directed Studies in Dental Public Health Sciences (*, max. 17) Students and faculty members who have common academic interests can pursue them together within the curriculum by means of independent study and a tutorial student-faculty relationship. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 550 OHS 561 Oral Tissue Development, Structure, and Function (3, max. 6) Selected readings and discussions explore recent advances in cellular and molecular biology relevant to oral biology and medicine. Special emphasis on craniofacial and dental development, oral mucosa and periodontal tissues, salivary gland function, and olfaction and gustation. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Popowics Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 561 OHS 562 Supervised Teaching in Oral Health Sciences (1-5, max. 10) Directed and guided experience in selected topics in teaching techniques, teaching philosophy, and design of courses given by the Department of Oral Health Sciences. Students are required to participate in lecture and laboratory teaching under the supervision of the course director. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 562 OHS 568 Biostatistics in Dentistry (3) Introduction to concepts and methods of descriptive and inferential statistics with applications in dentistry emphasized. Topics include comparison of means and proportions, hypothesis testing, confidence intervals, non-parametric methods, linear regression, and correlation. Prerequisite: enrollment in School of Dentistry or permission of instructor. Instructors: Spiekerman Offered: jointly with BIOST 510; S. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 568 OHS 569 Advanced Oral Microbiology (2) Darveau Viral, bacterial classification; physiology; toxicity mechanisms reviewed. Formation and composition of plaque and calculus, and chemical methods of control discussed. Specific microbial floras of acute and chronic gingivitis, early onset forms of periodontitis, and adult periodontitis studied. Principles of antibiotic use reviewed. Offered: W, even years. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 569 OHS 571 Clinical Epidemiology and Study Design in Dentistry (2) Hujoel An introduction to epidemiological methods as they relate to dental research. Topics covered include the estimation of dental disease occurrence at patient level and site level and the design and analysis of clinical trials with special emphasis on designs unique to dentistry, such as split-mouth designs. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 571 OHS 575 Oral Health Sciences Seminar (1-3, max. 30) Presentation and discussion of current research problems by members of the staff, investigators from other departments in the University, visiting scientists, and trainees. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Presland Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 575 OHS 578 Research Techniques in Oral Health Sciences (2-4, max. 15) Introduction to biochemical, analytical, or morphological techniques employed in biochemical cytology or molecular pathology as well as in vitro techniques of tissue and organ culture. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 578 OHS 579 Molecular Biology (2) Applications of molecular biology and recombinant DNA methodologies to oral health science topics of interest in dental sciences. Prerequisite: BIOC 405 or BIOC 406 or equivalent, and permission of instructor. Instructors: Presland Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 579 OHS 580 Introduction to Molecular Biology Laboratory (4) Includes laboratory experiences involving use of restriction enzymes, cloning of DNA into plasmid vectors and plasmid DNA isolation, RNA isolation from cells and tissues, PCR, DNA sequence analysis, and web-based DNA, and protein sequence analysis. Prerequisite: either BIOC 405, BIOC 406, or permission of instructor. Offered: A, even years. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 580 OHS 581 Secretory Process in Exocrine Glands (1-3, max. 3) Jeffrey Biostructural, physiological, and biochemical aspects of individual secretory systems as integrated units. Faculty members with appropriate expertise participate in discussions and presentations during each of the three quarters. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 581 OHS 584 Craniofacial Research Seminar (1) C. McKinney This survey course presents a framework for basic and clinical craniofacial research and an overview of the translation spectrum of craniofacial research from basic science and clinical research to product development. Recommended: A background in the conduct of biomedical research would be helpful. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 584 OHS 591 Advanced Topics in Oral Biology I - Teeth and Bones (1-2, max. 2) Covers aspects of biology basic to the dental sciences. Focuses on developmental biology of the craniofacial region, structure and function of teeth, bone, and the periodontium, and dental/oral sensation and pain. Offered: jointly with ORTHO 591; A. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 591 OHS 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 600 OHS 650 P-Community Dentistry Clinical Electives (*, max. 12) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 650 OHS 700 Master's Thesis (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 700 OHS 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: OHS 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022