Skip to main content Skip to main navigation IMPACT & LEAD Living-Learning Center Menu About Us Mission & Goals Allen and Dawson Our Traditions School of Education Majors Application & Costs Costs & Requirements Scholarships Leadership Impact LLC Leadership Team Graduate Academic Resource Specialists Contact Contact Us Helpful Links Baylor School of Education IMPACT & LEAD Living-Learning Center The IMPACT & LEAD Living-Learning Center (LLC) offers a community for students of all majors that have an interest in serving the world, educating others, or participating in civic engagement within our society. Through numerous programs and events that connect the in-and-out-of-class experience, our community invites students who desire to see their Baylor journeys make a positive and lasting transformation in the world. Join us as we learn together how to impact and lead within the world. Read More Apply Live Learn Connect Apply Contact Leadership Scholarships Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Impact Living-Learning Center Facebook Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Mission & Goals Allen and Dawson Our Traditions School of Education Majors Application & Costs Costs & Requirements Scholarships Leadership Impact LLC Leadership Team Graduate Academic Resource Specialists Contact Contact Us Helpful Links Baylor School of Education