Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases Safest Campus University of Memphis Ranked Safest Large Campus in Tennessee for 7th Time in 10 years May 9, 2022 — The University of Memphis once again ranks as the safest large campus in the State of Tennessee, according to the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation’s 2021 Crime on Campus Report. This marks the seventh time in 10 years the UofM has ranked as the safest of the state’s 10 universities with a student population of more than 5,000. Over the last decade, the UofM has consistently held one of the lowest reported crime rates among large public and private universities in Tennessee. Crime decreased 4% across all Tennessee colleges and universities in 2021. Incidents at UofM campuses decreased 14% from 8.1 per 1,000 student population to 6.9 – the lowest since the University began tracking crimes per 1,000 in 2001. The other Tennessee institutions ranged from 7.6 to 24.2 with a median of 13.3 last year. “The University of Memphis continues to have a strong safety record by putting students first and making campus a safe and welcoming place to be,” said UofM President Bill Hardgrave. “It is tremendous and gratifying to know that the UofM has been ranked the safest large campus in Tennessee for seven of the last 10 years.” UofM Police Services is a state-certified police agency. Officers and detectives have enforcement powers anywhere in Memphis or Jackson (Lambuth campus) to address and investigate all University-related issues. They work 24 hours per day, 365 days a year, patrolling in cars, on bikes and on foot. Among the key initiatives designed to protect students and promote a safer campus environment are: furthering the University's commitment to preventing sexual assaults and harassment; offering instant emergency alerts and the ability to text police through the LiveSafe app for smartphones; and the Tiger Escort Program, which offers safety escorts for students from dusk until dawn. The University has more than 800 cameras, both inside and outside of buildings, across its campuses. Additionally, the University employs Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design principles, examining lighting, landscaping, design features of new construction and maintaining a line of sight between pedestrian traffic and buildings to maximize safety. Read the complete report here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/20/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.