Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact Who We Are Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Our Expertise COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Our Deliverables Targeted Research Reports Predictive Analytics Models Training Programs & Toolkits Survey Design, Dissemination, and Analysis Program Evaluation Our Case Studies Otsuka Pharmaceuticals Novo Nordisk Merck: Savings Mothers, Giving Life Claritin/Bayer Hospital Decision-Making Simulation Get In Touch Latest News Search You are here Home Corporate Partnerships Our Expertise Global Health Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Global Health Columbia Mailman is recognized internationally for our extensive work in global health. What makes our work unique among schools of public health is a focus on implementation, and a commitment to generating practical, scalable solutions for the world’s most pressing health challenges. Our international portfolio of research and implementation addresses sustainable health systems, disease prevention and treatment, training of healthcare workers, digital solutions, and worldwide health crises such as HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, and maternal morbidity and mortality. Columbia Mailman is home to one of the university’s largest centers, ICAP, which has permanent offices in 22 countries around the globe, and active projects in over 30. ICAP works closely with local implementing partners, including private corporations, NGOs and government ministries, to strengthen health systems through a coordinated strategy that includes service, research, training & education, and impact measurement. Corporate collaborations have resulted in multi-country program evalations, customized toolkits for community healthcare workers, and executive education for a global workforce. Key Faculty Wafaa El-Sadr, MD, MPH, MPA, is director of the Global Health Initiative at the Mailman School of Public Health and the director of ICAP at Columbia University, a global leader in the fight against HIV. ICAP provides technical assistance, supports implementation, and conducts research in more than 30 countries. El-Sadr has led numerous studies that have furthered the understanding of the prevention and management of HIV, TB, and non-communicable diseases. A 2008 MacArthur Foundation Fellow (AKA the “Genius Grant”), she is also a University Professor, Columbia’s highest academic honor. ' Terry McGovern, JD, currently serves as Harriet and Robert H. Heilbrunn Professor and Chair of the Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health and the director of the Program on Global Health Justice and Governance at Columbia Mailman School of Public Health. Her research focuses on health and human rights, sexual and reproductive rights and health, gender justice, and environmental justice. McGovern was instrumental in ensuring that clinical trials include women. Sign up for Transmission Receive updates about research and news from Columbia Mailman School of Public Health via our weekly newsletter. Subscribe Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers