Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Apply News Archive Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Archive Selenium Controls Staph on Implant Material Qi Wang, graduate student in Chemistry, is first author on a paper showing how selenium, a naturally occurring element in the body, can help combat the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. When selenium nanoparticles are used to coat polycarbonate, the material of catheters and endotracheal tubes, the results were significant reductions in cultured populations of Staphylococcus aureus bacteria, sometimes by as much as 90 percent. Recreational Fishing Brings Salt Marsh Die-off Postdoc Andrew Altieri worked with a team of researchers, including Ecology and Evolutionary Biology department chair Mark Bertness, to determine why salt marshes are rapidly declining along Cape Cod. Recreational fishing is major contributor because it strips top predators such as striped bass, blue crabs, and smooth dogfish out of the ecosystem, according to new research by Brown University ecologists. Graduate School Alumna Madeline Miller Wins Orange Prize Madeline Miller was awarded the Orange Prize for fiction this week for her first book, The Song of Achilles. Miller earned her BA and MA in Classics at Brown. She currently works as a Greek and Latin teacher. The Orange Prize is open to any novel by a woman published in English. Read more. Congratulations, Graduates! The Graduate School awarded 232 doctoral and 479 master's degrees today on the newly named Ruth Simmons Quadrangle. The full Commencement program, including the names of all degree recipients, is available online. Highlights of the program included student speaker, Chris Geggie on “Nothing Without Great Labor.” Geggie received his Master of Arts in Classics. First Cohort of Open Graduate Education Students Nine graduate students are pioneers in the Graduate School’s Open Graduate Programs, each creating their own expanded graduate curriculum. The pilot program has allowed doctoral students the flexibility and resources to pursue a master’s degree in a secondary field while they earn their doctorates at Brown University. The aim is to enhance the educational options for top graduate students, catalyze new interdisciplinary pursuits, and prepare students for the demands of the job market. « first ‹ previous … 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants