Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Assistant Deans Athletic Academic Services Career Center Center for Internships & Community Engagement Center for Scholars Disability Support Services Irvine Center Male Success Initiative Student Academic Services Student Wellness University Learning Center Veterans Resource Center Student Academic Services Mission Statement The Student Academic Services unit provides activities and services which actively support CSUF missions by promoting the development of the whole student - academically, intellectually, and socially. The program offers a comprehensive set of opportunities and strategic interventions designed to improve retention at CSUF and the educational outcomes of students. The mission of Student Academic Services (SAS) is to create an environment where all students have the opportunity to succeed. Because learning is preeminent at Cal State Fullerton, the services and activities the department administers to achieve its mission are all centered around student retention and ensuring graduation.SAS is committed to serving a diverse population and providing students with a rich educational experience. The department coordinates the services of a number of student programs, many of which give particular attention to the education needs of low income and disadvantaged college students to ensure that they are able to successfully complete their college education. To ensure that students are able to afford an education the department offers EOP students help with emergency book loans, financial aid counciling; referals to scholarships and the department also coordinates and offers EOP students the opportunity, if qualified, to apply for the William Hernandez Memorial Scholarship program. Student Academic Services strive to be a center of activity essential to the intellectual, cultural, and economic development of our region. Contact Information Rochelle Woods, Ed.D. Executive Director for Special Populations rwoods@fullerton.edu 2017-2018 Assessment Reports SI Leader Development Archived Reports 2016-2017 2016-2017 SI Leader- Group Facilitation 2014-2015 2014-2015 SI Faculty Participants 2014-2015 SI Leader- Development 2014-2015 SI Leader- Life Long Learning 2014-2015 ULC Student Employment - Customer Service 2012-2013 2013 Fall Summer Bridge Assessment Report 2012-2013 Student Academic Services Annual Report Educational Opportunity Program Intensive Learning Experience This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 8/19/19 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.