Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Public Safety Public Safety right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Contact Us FAQ Executive Team Newsroom right arrow down arrow Blog Posts Safety and Reform News Media Department Policies Safety Services right arrow down arrow Access Control & Physical Security Automated External Defibrillators Background Checks / Finger Prints right arrow down arrow FAQ Bicycle Registration Bearcat Guardian Crime Prevention right arrow down arrow Preventing theft from auto and auto theft Preventing theft and burglary Online and phone scams Housing Rental Scams Keys & Badges Lost & Found Mind What Matters NightRide Special Events right arrow down arrow Event Security Cost Estimate Special Events FAQ Be A Good Neighbor Police right arrow down arrow 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment Victim Services right arrow down arrow What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Reform right arrow down arrow Board of Trustees' Resolution Community Compliance Council right arrow down arrow Meetings, Minutes and Materials Guiding Principles Values Members Resources External Reports and Voluntary Monitorship Clery Act right arrow down arrow Clery Notices Daily Crime Log Campus Security Authorities Annual Security Report Fire Prevention and Protection Units right arrow down arrow Fire Extinguisher Training Fire Drills and Smoke Detectors Areas of Rescue Assistance Fire Log Fire Alarm Construction Standards Emergency Management right arrow down arrow Emergency Procedures Safety Notifications Emergency Plans Bearcat Notifications Home » About UC » Public Safety » Police » Victim Services » Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Set Navigation title in component Victim Services What Are My Options? Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Sex Crimes 911 Communications Leadership Community Engagement Team Crime Statistics Job Shadowing Mission, Vision and Values Bias Free Policing and Contact Cards Records and Reports Recruitment K-9 Unit Request for Investigation University Threat Assessment Group Harassment, Stalking and Dating Violence Discrimination, including harassment, sexual assault, and other types of sexual misconduct, compromises the integrity of the University. Sexual misconduct may violate the law, does violate the standards of our community, and is unacceptable at the University of Cincinnati. Sexual misconduct can be devastating to the person who experiences it directly and can be traumatic to the person's family, friends, and the larger community as well. In instances of sexual misconduct, special resources are available to help students and other members of the University community. Every effort is made to preserve privacy and respect a person's wishes. Below you will find descriptions of harassment, stalking and dating violence, in addition to resources available if you or someone you know is experiencing any of the following. Harassment Harassment covers a wide range of behaviors of an offensive nature. It is commonly understood as behavior that disturbs or upsets, and it is characteristically repetitive. In the legal sense, it is behavior that appears to be disturbing or threatening. Sexual harassment refers to persistent and unwanted sexual advances, typically in the workplace, where the consequences of refusing are potentially very disadvantageous to the victim. Harassment includes whistling, leering or comments such as "hey baby" or, "can I get piece of that?" It also includes physical contact such as brushing up against someone, touching, groping, or equally offensive non-physical contact like flashing and public masturbation. Harassment can create a culture where words can escalate to physical contact and other forms of violence, including stalking, assault or rape. Stalking Stalking is defined as engaging in a course of conduct (a series of two or more acts toward another person), carried out over time, however short or long, which are not wanted by the victim, and/or that threaten or would cause a reasonable person to fear for their safety or the safety of others or cause them to suffer substantial emotional distress. "Course of conduct" broadly captures the wide range of words, behaviors, and means that perpetrators use to stalk victims, and, as a result, cause their victims to fear for their personal safety or the safety of others or suffer substantial emotional distress Stalking may include, but is not limited to, the following acts: Following the person without proper authority or permission. Communicating in repeated, unwelcome ways, which can involve communication by any electronic, written, verbal or third-party method, including social media. Leaving unwanted items for the person. Vandalizing a person's property Appearing at a person's residence, classroom, or workplace without permission. Dating Violence Dating violence includes violence against a person with whom there has been a romantic or intimate relationship. Relationships are gauged by the length, type, and frequency of interaction. Dating violence may include the following: Infliction of physical pain, physical injury or illness. Actions that cause impaired physical or mental condition. A violation of the sexual assault policy or the sexual harassment policy Important Numbers Emergency 911 UC Police (Crimes on UC's campuses) 513-556-1111 Cincinnati Police 513-765-1212 UCPD Victim Services Coordinator 513-556-4905 University of Cincinnati Medical Center 513-584-8108 Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) - 24 hour hotline 513-556-0648 UC Advocates 513-556-4418 513-381-5610 (24 hour hotline) Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Department of Public Safety 51 West Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0215 Main Number: 513-556-4900 Background Checks, Keys and IDs: 513-556-4925 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top