Menu Close Menu Skip to content Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public HealthHarvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health main site homepage Quicklinks About the School Academics Admissions Research Faculty Student Life News Alumni Frontiers Make A Gift Search for: Search Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies Home About Us History People Leadership Faculty Members Visiting Scientists Postdoctoral Fellows Research Core Staff Administrative Staff Graduate Student Affiliates Harvard Pop Center Job Openings Contact Directions & Map Request Meeting Space Research Research Focal Areas Research Projects Major Projects All Research Projects (by PI) Research Resources Working Papers Postdoctoral Fellowships Bell Fellowships Bell Fellow Profiles Program Goals Mentorship and Resources Expectations Terms and Conditions FAQs about Postdoctoral Fellowships How to Apply for a Bell Postdoctoral Fellowship Sloan Fellowship on Aging and Work Sloan Fellows on Aging and Work Background and Significance Research Focal Areas RWJF Health & Society Scholars program (2003–2016) Scholar Profiles Programs & Services Faculty Membership Meet Our Faculty Members Visiting Scientist Program Meet Our Visiting Scientists Postdoctoral Fellowships Meet Our Postdoctoral Fellows Graduate Student Affiliate (GSA) Program Meet Our Graduate Student Affiliates Sissela Bok Ethics and Population Research Prize Grant Support Services Seminars & Events Social Demography Seminars Friday Luncheon Seminars Past Special Events News & Media Recent Publications & News Videos & Podcasts E-newsletter Archive Bow Street Bulletin Newsletter Archive Interdisciplinary postdoctoral fellowships at the Harvard Pop Center Read More The next generation of population scientists are nurtured here... Read More Health and Aging in Africa: A Longitudinal Study of an INDEPTH Community in South Africa Read More Life expectancy is increasing in South Africa ... this flagship study is generating data and insights into the newly aging society Read More Seminars & Events See what's happening Our upcoming fall 2022 seminars will be posted to this site late summer 2022... We look forward to having you join us! See what's happening As a University-wide initiative, the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies brings together scientists from all corners of the Harvard campus—and beyond—to make exciting advances in population research. With seven and a half billion people living on the planet and a projected nine and a half billion by 2050, our focus is on examining the most nuanced trends and important challenges in this century. Research Focal Areas Social & Environmental Determinants of Population Health Poverty, economic & racial inequality, social isolation, exposure to violence, poor nutrition, job stress & the environment shape health in ways that are challenging for health care systems to fix. View our research projects Aging Societies Fertility declines since the '60s have resulted in rapidly aging populations worldwide. We explore why and how these changes in population size and ratios have had dramatic effects on demographic distribution, living conditions, family structures, fiscal balances, and other factors key to human welfare. HAALSI is a major research project Workplace & Well-Being Our research strives to reimagine how workplaces can support employees’ well-being by developing policies and strategies that create a more productive workforce, and by alleviating work and family strain as our society continues to experience demographic changes. Learn more about the work & health connection Social & Family Demography This interdisciplinary focal area is related to work that uses demographic methods to describe and explain the distribution of social goods across populations—including research on behaviors, attitudes, and norms related to marriage, cohabitation, divorce, childbearing, gender roles, intergenerational relations, and social inequality, both within the U.S. and internationally. Attend a Social Demography Seminar Recent publications & news May 20, 2022 International Money Fund: Are the tradeoffs fair and acceptable when it comes to population health? May 18, 2022 Reframing “environmental harms” to include more than just pollutants and toxins to effectively address reproductive health inequities May 18, 2022 The Harvard Gazette reports: “Women mostly stayed in workforce as pandemic unfolded, defying forecasts” May 12, 2022 A cross-national look at the health impacts of perceived healthcare discrimination in the rapidly aging populations of the U.S. and Brazil May 1, 2022 Honing in on small geographic areas within districts in India yields large differences Want to stay informed about the people, research and events at the Harvard Pop Center? Please subscribe to our e-newsletter! Email First Name Last Name Professional Title Organization/Institution Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © The President and Fellows of Harvard College