Skip to main content Restrict my search to Facilities Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Facilities Services About Us News Services Programs Contact Us Employee Resources UH FIXIT UH Home Facilities Services Services Custodial Services Services FIXIT Request Key/Card Access View Billable and Non-billable Requests View Cost and Billing View the Outage Calendar Find My Building Coordinator View All Services Custodial Services Custodial Services’ mission to the University is to provide the cleanest and safest facilities for use by its faculty, staff, and students as well as visitors to the campus. Services We Provide Floor Cleaning Restock Materials Routine Cleaning Spill Clean Up Trash Removal Unlocking/Locking Buildings Special Requests All special cleaning requests must be submitted to the Facilities Service Center at 713-743-4948. Cleaning of classrooms, auditoriums, and theaters for weekend events must be requested 72 hours prior to the weekend requested. More information on billable versus non-billable requests. FAQs How often are custodial services provided? To see how often custodial services are provided please visit the Service Frequency Chart information site. How can I schedule to have a building opened during the weekend? For buildings that do not require card access please contact custodial services by calling the Facilities Services Center at 713-743-4948. My building is being cleaned by a contractor. Whom should I contact with issues and concerns? For issues and concerns regarding contracted custodial services please contact Katie Alvarenga at kealvare@uh.edu My building is being cleaned by the in house custodial services. Whom should I contact with issues and concerns? For issues and concerns regarding in house custodial services please contact Ana De Los Reyes at adelosreyes@uh.edu. For escalated issues/questions/concerns for either contracted or in house custodial services, who should I contact with issues and concerns? For escalated issues/ questions/concerns for either contracted or in house custodial services please contact Liliana Simmonds at lsimmond@central.uh.edu Related Links Service Frequency Charts List of Custodial Services Non-billable vs. Billable Requests How do I request this service? UH FIXIT University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies