Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Parents Alumni News/Media Faculty/Staff Apply Give Follow Us Twitter Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Social Stream Search Navigate Search Social SMU About Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Campus profile Academic offerings Administration Prominent alumni Intercollegiate athletics Location and facilities Student life Undergraduate costs Maps and directions Maps and directions Campus Map Directions to SMU Parking at SMU Download and print maps Building addresses Accessibility SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Contact SMU Administration About SMU / Administration / Brad E. Cheves Brad E. Cheves Brad E. Cheves serves as vice president for Development and External Affairs (DEA) at SMU. In this role, Cheves advances the University’s strategic priorities by managing fundraising, strengthening donor relations and alumni engagement, overseeing marketing and communications, and deepening community connections. As the University’s chief development officer, Cheves leads DEA’s charge for SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow, a multiyear $1.5 billion campaign to empower outstanding students, to enrich teaching and research and to enhance campus and community. The public phase of SMU Ignited launched September 17, 2021, with a campus kickoff event. This landmark initiative builds on the support of donors, alumni, parents, faculty, staff and community partners rallied by Cheves and his fundraising teams in concert with SMU leadership. In guiding DEA’s local, national and global endeavors, he works closely with the Campaign Leadership Council and serves as an ex officio member of all campaign steering committees. In addition to his responsibilities as vice president, Cheves played an equally critical part as campaign director in building support for the previous comprehensive campaign, SMU Unbridled: The Second Century Campaign, which raised gifts totaling $1.15 billion, the largest amount ever raised by a private university in Texas. The academic programs, student scholarships, faculty support and facilities made possible by the ambitious campaign elevated SMU’s standing as a global teaching and research university. He also presided over the SMU team that developed the proposal to bring the George W. Bush Presidential Center to SMU. Since his appointment in June 2004, Cheves has initiated aggressive and innovative use of new technologies in SMU’s outreach programs targeted to alumni, potential students and national media, resulting in increased attention and an enhanced worldwide reputation for SMU. The number of new donors at all levels has increased dramatically, resulting in significant growth in endowed scholarships and faculty positions. Reporting to Cheves are the offices for Marketing and Communications, Principal and Major Gifts, School and Project Development, Annual Giving and Alumni Relations, Development Services, and Program Services and Donor Relations – which produces the renowned SMU Tate Lecture Series, the SMU Athletic Forum luncheon series and the Doak Walker Award. The Office of the Vice President includes Strategic Affairs, Staff Development and Leadership Projects. This is Cheves’ second appointment at SMU. From 1998 to 2001, Cheves was SMU’s associate vice president for Development. In that capacity he also served as associate director of The Campaign for SMU. From 2001 to 2004, Cheves was vice president for Advancement and Public Affairs and an assistant professor of public policy at Pepperdine University, where he reorganized the advancement operation and began a branding project that resulted in the establishment of Pepperdine’s Office of Marketing. He previously served Pepperdine as associate dean at the School of Public Policy and director of alumni relations at Pepperdine’s School of Law. A native of Albuquerque, New Mexico, Cheves earned a bachelor’s degree in business administration and finance from Abilene Christian University and a Juris Doctor degree from Pepperdine University School of Law. He is a member of the State Bar of Texas and has worked with the Texas State Legislature. Cheves currently serves in several Dallas community leadership roles, including on the Dallas Summer Musicals Board of Directors, the New Friends New Life Men’s Advocacy Group, the YMCA of Metropolitan Dallas Advisory Board and the Circle Ten Boy Scouts Executive Board. He and his wife, Angela, have three sons: Kyle, Conner and Keaton. Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Research & Graduate Studies Dean, Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President for Business and Finance and Treasurer Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President for Student Affairs Apply Visit Schools Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing & Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Report Sexual Harassment Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 SMU Twitter SMU Facebook SMU Instagram SMU Linked In SMU YouTube Social Media Directory"