Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Academics Current Faculty Opportunities Home » Academics » Current Faculty Opportunities Menu Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Interdisciplinary Programs Academic Guest Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Current faculty opportunities at Scheller: Academic Faculty: Non-Tenure Track Open Rank Vacancy in Marketing The Scheller College of Business at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia welcomes applications for one full-time non-tenure track academic position in Marketing to begin fall 2022, which is early August. We welcome candidates from academia, business, and/or government sectors. Candidates should have extensive experience in teaching marketing courses, a demonstrated record of marketing collaboration with corporate/industry leaders, and teaching excellence in this area. A minimum of an MS or MBA degree in marketing, management, business, or related field is required. The appointment at the rank of Lecturer or Professor of the Practice will be dependent upon the qualifications, credentials, and letters of recommendation of the top candidate. Candidates should expect to teach six courses per year in marketing-related subjects such as marketing management, brand management, and marketing research, at both the undergraduate and MBA levels. Some of these courses involve hands-on/experiential learning in product planning, consumer insights, and digital and social media marketing. All teaching assignments will be determined by the area coordinator of Marketing. Our faculty are also expected to engage in service activities as part of their workload allocation. The Marketing group has a strong research focus on the intersection of technology and marketing. Preference will be given to candidates who are able to effectively interact with the academic faculty. In addition to teaching responsibilities, general duties include holding office hours, assigning grades, curriculum development, advising students on all levels on both academic and future career development progress, preparing course materials, and formalizing associations with the related centers, with an emphasis and goal of course collaboration. Candidates are also expected to engage in service and/or outreach activities for the Department and/or the College, as well as in sufficient professional activities to maintain currency with AACSB standards. Candidates may serve as liaisons between industry or government and the Institute in identifying teaching and research or other opportunities that support the public interest and societal needs. To apply, please upload following application documents no later than February 15, 2022, to bit.ly/3fZDWTO. Please reach out to the Chair of the search committee at recruit-marketing@scheller.gatech.edu if there questions about this vacancy. Letter of application CV or resume (please include the last 10 years of verifiable work history and all relevant information pertaining to the requirements for the role) Three to four names of individuals who can provide letters of recommendation (one personal and two professional references). These individuals will be contacted and asked to provide a letter of recommendation once a final selection is made. Review of applications will begin immediately. The selection process for the chosen candidate will include passing a pre-employment background screening, submission of transcripts, and other pre-employment documents once the top candidate has been identified. Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and/or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests. Tenure-Track Faculty Vacancy - Finance: Open Rank - Assistant/Associate/Full Professor The Scheller College of Business at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georiga welcomes applications for one open-rank academic faculty position in Finance beginning Fall 2022. Application Deadline - Applications will be accepted through December 1, 2021. However, candidates are encouraged to submit applications early as they will be reviewed upon receipt. Minimum Qualifications – 1) An earned Ph.D. in finance or a related field from an accredited institution is required. All But Dissertation (ABD) candidates must complete all degree requirements no later than June 1, 2022. 2) Strong evidence (or promise) in research is required 3) Evidence of successful teaching experience at the undergraduate and/or graduate level. Job Descriptions/ Duties - Assistant professor level applicants should exhibit promise of high-quality research and teaching. For those applying at the Associate Professor rank, we require an exemplary record of scholarly research, teaching, and service commensurate with the rank. The ideal candidate for a Full Professor would have an established record as an eminent scholar in Finance and would be internationally recognized for the quality of their research, teaching, and service. Exceptional Full Professor candidates may be considered for an endowed position and are expected to build relations with the business community, as well as with other relevant units within Georgia Tech. The chosen candidate would also be expected to provide reasonable service commensurate with the rank. Faculty will be required to have a teaching load of three (3 semester hours each) courses per year, with opportunities to teach at the undergraduate, masters, and doctoral levels. The salary is competitive with leading research universities. The Finance faculty are very collaborative and provide a highly supportive environment for all College personnel. All faculty members are highly committed to excellent research and work actively with Ph.D. students on research projects. For more information about Scheller’s Finance area, please visit: https://www.scheller.gatech.edu/academics/finance.html. Required Submissions - A cover letter addressed to the Recruiting Committee A curriculum vitae A list of three professional references (See candidate instructions below)* Up to three (3) research papers Research and teaching statements Where to Apply - Applications should be submitted electronically at the following link: https://bit.ly/3B5lrWL For questions, please contact Suzanne Lee at Recruit-finance@scheller.gatech.edu. Applicants at the Assistant Professor level are required to arrange with their writers for three recommendation letters to be submitted at the following link: https://gatech.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8zXpm3SLNUhcuVv. Applicants at the Associate / Full Professor level are required to submit the names and contact information of a minimum of three professional references. However, only references for the top candidates will be contacted to provide recommendations. EEO/Diversity Information - Georgia Tech provides equal opportunity to all faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including applicants for admission and/or employment, contractors, volunteers, and participants in institutional programs, activities, or services. Georgia Tech complies with all applicable laws and regulations governing equal opportunity in the workplace and in educational activities. Georgia Tech prohibits discrimination, including discriminatory harassment, on the basis of race, ethnicity, ancestry, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetics, or veteran status in its programs, activities, employment, and admissions. This prohibition applies to faculty, staff, students, and all other members of the Georgia Tech community, including affiliates, invitees, and guests. Research Associate I: Institute for Leadership & Social Impact (ILSI) **This position is on hold until further notice.** The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact in Scheller College of Business at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia is seeking a Research Associate I, a non-tenure track faculty position, with a principal focus on program development, management, teaching, community partnerships, and global studies in the areas of nonprofit organizations, social innovation and servant leadership to begin June 1, 2020. This position will work with Professor Terry Blum, Director and Tedd Munchak Chair in Scheller College and Dori Pap, Managing Director, as the ILSI engages in revitalization and updates its strategy. The focus of the position is on implementing new strategies and tactics, strengthening ILSI’s thought leadership at Georgia Tech in the areas of servant leadership, and enhancing its focus on social impact. The selected candidate may support overall research efforts such as related to the areas of non-profit leadership, global civil society, social entrepreneurship, corporate social responsibility, marginalized populations, social impact, leadership development and servant leadership. A Master’s Degree is the preferred degree, with six to eight years of experience, preferably within Georgia Tech, with three or more directly in the Institute’s focal areas of servant leadership and social impact. Expected duties include: teaching the Impact Forum courses for undergraduates, and developing and teaching a version of it for graduate students; leading and collaborating on our current core programs such as the Impact Speaker Series, the Ideas to Serve and Map the System Competitions, the Leadership for Social Good study abroad program; developing team projects for the undergraduate leadership minor and team projects for the pro bono nonprofit consulting class; and assisting with new programs that will come on board through implementation of strategic priorities. The role also requires preforming financial management, event and administrative duties that require the knowledge of Georgia Tech systems like Work Day, One USG, Banner, as well as knowledge of procuring and supporting grants and gifts that support ILSI’s research efforts and delivery of leadership training and education programs to undergraduate, graduate, faculty and executive audiences. Expanding and fostering ILSI’s close collaboration with our current and potential partners on campus and nonprofit partners is essential. This position will also contribute to cultivation of new funding opportunities, managing projects that are funded, and developing and coordinating closely relationships with other units and Colleges at Georgia Tech as needed. Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business is ranked among the top 30 MBA programs by BusinessWeek and U.S. News & World Report. Georgia Tech is one of the nation’s leading research universities and consistently ranks among the top public universities in the country. Atlanta is the 9th largest metropolitan area in the U.S. and serves as a cultural and economic hub for the region. To apply, please email the following to terry.blum@ile.gatech.edu : 1. A cover letter and vita including education, research interests, work experience and other relevant information. 2. Names and contact information of three professional references who can provide letters of recommendation. To assure full consideration, applications should be sent no later than May 25, 2020. Initial screening of applications will begin immediately, and will continue until the position is filled. All application documents must be in Microsoft Word or Adobe PDF format and submitted electronically by email. Packages sent by regular mail will not be accepted. Attracting a diverse applicant pool is a critical part of recruitment and we welcome your participation. To contribute to the process, please complete the voluntary disclosure form which will be sent to you upon receipt of your application. Your individual responses will be kept confidential and will not be included in the selection process. Georgia Tech is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures