Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School News For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation Graduate School Skip to Navigation For physics Ph.D. student, exploring the unknown universe and mentoring the next generation February 9, 2022 In speaking with Farrah Simpson, the excitement in her voice when the conversation turns to physics — and mentoring young students who might pursue the science she loves — is unmistakable. “I love being able to have a positive impact on other people’s lives,” said Simpson, a Ph.D. student at Brown University. “I was always curious growing up. I remember I would always ask random questions that my physics teacher wasn’t able to answer, and I’d go off and try to figure it out myself.” Simpson, who is from Jamaica, enrolled at Brown in 2018 after earning a bachelor’s degree at Columbia University. Last fall, Fermilab — the U.S. Department of Energy’s particle physics and accelerator laboratory — named her as one of two students in the nation appointed as 2022 Graduate Scholars to work at the lab’s Large Hadron Collider Physics Center. Read more. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants