COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music, Major MajorMusic All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State’s Bachelor of Arts (BA) in music combines a well-rounded liberal-arts education with quality musical training from professional faculty and opportunities to gain real-world experience, in venues big and small, on campus and throughout Kansas’ center of arts and culture. Learn how music is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Once you're admitted to WSU, you'll need to schedule an audition through the School of Music. In addition, all music majors must pass a piano proficiency examination. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program A multidimensional you The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Music provides a unique opportunity for students to major in both music and another area of their choice. About 10 percent of music students at Wichita State double-major, with their second concentrations ranging anywhere from other paths in the arts to Computer Science and Aerospace Engineering. With the demand for soft skills growing, the BA in Music gives students the flexibility necessary to pursue a non-music career path while developing their interpersonal and critical thinking skills. Curriculum To complete the degree, you’ll take 54 credit hours of music study, including courses in music literature and history, theory, applied music, ensembles and more. You’ll also round out your education by completing courses in the liberal arts and sciences, including a non-music minor or a foreign language. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Art History Art History (Minor) Music (Minor) Music Theatre Music Composition 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©