Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Donate Home Undergrad majors Schedule A Visit Apply Online Agriculture And Society About The Program Courses Criminal Justice About The Program Courses Learning Community Sociology About The Program Courses Advising Scholarships Graduate Program Schedule A Visit Apply Online Programs Of Study Courses/major requirements Funding Graduate Student Scholarships Available Assistantships Current Students Courses Theses and Dissertations Graduate College Handbook Research Gene Edited Foods Rural Opioids Project Data Science for the Public Good News Extension Extension Directory Iowa Farm and Rural Life Poll Grasslands and Prairies Empowering Underserved Communities Climate Change Small Towns Project Technical Reports Diversity People Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty and TA Office Hours Graduate Student Directory Alumni About George M. Beal Distinguished Lectureship in Rural Sociology Areas of Study News Department Announcements Publications and Accolades Internal Resources Home Lane Kunzie (’22 criminal justice, psychology) recommends taking advantage of opportunities. Kennedy White (’22 criminal justice) is on a mission to lead. A penchant for problem-solving makes sociology the perfect major for Aura Garcia (’23 sociology). Cynthia Hamlett (’21 agriculture and society, dairy science) pursues a career that combines sociology and agriculture. 1 2 3 4 5 The Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice is guided by a vision to create and disseminate knowledge that advances the well-being of all people, especially the people of Iowa. The department prepares students to lead fulfilling careers and lives through critical thinking and the analysis of pressing social issues, and we teach the next generation of scientists, teachers, professionals and citizens to apply sociological skills to societal challenges. We offer B.A./B.S. degrees in sociology, criminal justice or agriculture and society. Graduate students in the program are working toward either a M.S. or Ph.D. in sociology or rural sociology.” Dr. Leana A. Bouffard Department Chair Agriculture and Society Criminal Justice Sociology Graduate Program News Believing in the power of community Kaleb Nichols ('24 sociology) knows his purpose in life is to positively impact Black youth. He also knows that a degree in sociology from Iowa State will equip him with the tools necessary to achieve his lofty goals. New name for major appeals to students, faculty Agriculture and society major will become agricultural and rural policy studies beginning this fall. An abundance of opportunities Lane Kunzie (’22 criminal justice, psychology) is well prepared for a future career in criminology and sociology, thanks to the plethora of educational and social opportunities Iowa State offers. More News Faculty in the News Samuel Mindes interview about his research on COVID and self-employment Samuel Mindes—Self-employed Workers Hardest Hit by COVID Pandemic David Peters—"Where you live in Iowa determines how long it will take an ambulance to reach you and the care you will receive" David Peters—“Pandemic’s toll on rural Iowa a ‘looming mental health crisis.” Sam Mindes to Study Barriers to Entrepreneurship in Iowa More Faculty in the News Publications and Accolades Shawn Dorius—"Ten simple rules to ruin a collaborative environment" Shannon Harper receives grant from the 2022-2023 LAS Seed Grant for Social Sciences Shannon Harper—“Identifying Revictimization Trajectories Among Adolescent Girls Using Latent Class Growth Analysis: An Examination of State Dependence and Population Heterogeneity.” Shannon Harper—“The Systemic Model of Social Disorganization and Homicide and Suicide Trajectories in South Korean Community Areas: Testing the Stream Analogy of Lethal Violence.” Mark Ruelas receives a tenure-track position More Publications and Accolades Tweets by ISUSocCJ College of Liberal Arts and Sciences College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice 103 East Hall 510 Farm House Lane Ames, Iowa 50011 (515) 294-6480 Office: soc-cj@iastate.edu Advising Criminal Justice and Sociology: cjsocadvising@iastate.edu Agriculture and Society: agsocadvising@iastate.edu Facebook Instagram Twitter Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...