Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 19, 2022: COVID Update COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 19, 2022: COVID Update Dear Colleagues, We hope that you had a safe Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Cases remain high in NYC, but the 7-day percent positivity has decreased. As we wrote previously, based on what we are seeing locally as well as experience from outside of the United States, we are optimistic about these trends and we are starting to see improvements. Majority of the hospitalizations we are seeing are among unvaccinated or partially vaccinated individuals. The current vaccines are highly protective against severe illness and hospitalization. While we know that faculty and staff are vaccinated, please encourage your friends and family to get vaccinated and boosted, if they are eligible for a booster. Data emerging from outside of the United States show that for fully vaccinated people, the effectiveness of protection from severe illness and hospitalization from Omicron was high but waned over time; importantly, this protection is increased for people who’ve had the booster shot. We are definitely still learning about the duration of protection of the booster dose. Flu vaccination is now required for all faculty and staff in patient-facing roles, in addition to the covid booster. Influenza activity is elevated in NYC, for both influenza A and influenza B. People can get their flu shot through WHS through 2/11/22, at a pharmacy, or at their own doctor. Booster deadlines: Nonclinical personnel: Columbia University has mandated boosters for all faculty, staff, and students effective January 31, 2022. Clinical personnel: As was noted in a recent email from the FPO, New York State is now requiring boosters for health care personnel who could potentially expose patients, residents, or other personnel to COVID-19 with a deadline of 1/26. Note that this is five days earlier than the deadline for nonclinical faculty, staff, and students at Columbia. Please get your booster and click here to upload your booster documentation before the above deadlines. Those who have had a previous infection still need to receive their booster by the deadlines above. People without a contraindication for vaccination can get vaccinated once they have recovered from their illness and have met the criteria for discontinuing isolation; those without symptoms can be vaccinated once they have met the criteria for discontinuing isolation. 51 W. 51st Street Booster Schedule — January Booster Session Opening Schedule through Connect Wednesday, January 19, 1pm–4:30pm 1/14 at 8am Friday, January 21, 9am–12pm 1/14 at 8am Friday, January 21, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins Tueday, January 25, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Wednesday, January 26, 1pm–4:30pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 9am–12pm 1/21 at 8am Friday, January 28, 1pm–4pm Employee Walk-Ins ColumbiaDoctors primary care patients may also get a booster during a regular primary care visit. It is also fine to get a booster at a pharmacy or other vaccine site. New testing sites have been established at four MTA subway stations, including the 125th Street station (A, B, C, D lines). More information is available here. Thank you and stay safe! Donna Lynne, DrPH Sr. Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, CUIMC University COVID Director Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top