Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geoscience PhD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geoscience PhD Apply Request More Info Geoscience PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Geoscience PhD Doctoral students in the Geoscience PhD program in Temple’s College of Science and Technology pursue advanced coursework and original research exploring the geological processes and cycles that affect human well-being. Courses and research explore how the increasing human population and rapidly expanding technology alter those processes and their effects. Research funding for doctoral students is available in subfields of environmental geology, geochemistry, sedimentary geology and paleontology, and structural geology. The PhD program will build on research topics and focus on new and emerging areas of geoscience. This field is increasingly interdisciplinary in nature, and the Geoscience PhD program welcomes students from a variety of science majors who are qualified to take graduate coursework in geosciences. Learn more about Geoscience faculty research. Classes & Curriculum The Geoscience PhD includes graduate courses in the geosciences, weekly seminars, qualifying exams and research leading to a doctoral dissertation. Other culminating events include passing a written and oral qualifying examination, submitting an original thesis and completing a final oral presentation of that thesis. Courses you may take during your studies include Analytical Methods in Mineralogy, Ecohydrology, Glaciology and Sedimentary Petrology. Learn more about the Geoscience PhD curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Geology MS Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Philosophy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Dennis Terry is the graduate faculty advisor for Geology graduate programs. Phone: 215-204-8226 Email: eesgrad@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Geology degree include the Geological Society of Temple University, which encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics in social experiences with peers. Sigma Gamma Epsilon, a society that was established to recognize scholarship and professionalism in the Earth Sciences. Members can connect through social and research events. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-GESC-PHD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geoscience PhD Admissions Careers & Opportunities Curriculum Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info