Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Aid & Scholarships Contact Information Financial Aid Forms Child Care Assistance Program Applying for Aid Application Steps Review process Maintaining Financial Aid Eligibility Award Process Receiving Your Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Husky Promise Frequently Asked Questions Grants Student Loans Work Study Satisfactory Academic Progress SAP Policy Scholarships Scholarship and Fellowship FAQs REACH/Foster Youth Consumer Information Financial Aid & Scholarships Welcome to the Office of Financial Aid Meeting the costs of an undergraduate or graduate education is a major investment for many families. It requires planning, careful decision making, and a commitment from both you and your family. We believe that students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington Bothell and that finances should not be a barrier. Spring Quarter 2022 Following the best current guidelines for protecting the health of our employees, students, and the public we will provide limited walk-in advising hours with our financial aid counselors: Check in at the Husky Hall Welcome Desk to talk with a counselor: Thursdays, 1-3pm Also, most of your general financial aid questions can be answered by one of our representatives at our Welcome Desk, Monday through Friday between the hours of 9am to 4pm OR you can speak directly with a financial counselor during our phone hours, email, or zoom video conference on Wednesdays during the spring quarter. Speak with a Financial Aid Counselor by clicking "Join the queue" for a 'ZOOM room' visit during the following office hours: Wednesday 1-3 pm Join the queue A financial aid counselor will be available by phone during the following phone hours: 8:30-10:00am and 1:30-4:00pm, Monday through Friday 425-352-5240 option #3 Email remains open as usual: uwbfaid@uw.edu What you need to know FAFSA/WASFA FAFSA WASFA Priority Application Date UW Federal School Code News & Updates Office hours What if my aid hasn't disbursed? Child Care Assistance Program Financial Aid News COVID-19 Updates Contact Us FAFSA/WASFA If you are a U.S. Citizen or an eligible non-citizen then you can submit the FAFSA form and be considered for federal aid. If you are not a U.S. Citizen or an eligible non-citizen then you may be able to apply for state or institutional aid by submitting the WASFA form. To be considered for financial aid you must complete one of the applications below. FAFSA The Free Application for Federal Student Aid is available to all U.S. Citizens and eligible non-citizens (Permanent Resident). The 2021-2022 FAFSA is an online application and is currently Available Now. The 2022-2023 FAFSA is Available Now. WASFA The Washington Application for State Financial Aid is available to students who are not eligible to submit the FAFSA. The 2021-2022 WASFA is also an online application and is currently Available Now. The 2022-2023 WASFA is Available Now. Priority Application Date: January 15th To be considered for as many aid programs as possible you will want to submit your financial aid application before our priority application date, January 15th. Be sure to include our federal school code below. The federal school code is shared by all three UW campuses. UW Federal Code 003798 ↑ Back to top News & Updates Office hours We are not scheduling appointments, but you can get your general financial aid questions answered at our Welcome Desk in Husky Hall, Monday through Friday, 9am-4pm. You can meet with one of our financial aid counselors via Zoom on Wednesdays, 1-3pm. Just follow the directions below: Click on the purple "Join the Queue" button found at the top of this page. Log-in to Navigate with your UW NetID to drop-in during our advising hours. Look for the "View Drop-in Availability" button and click. You will see "Check-in success" once you are in the Navigate waiting room. You will have to return to the check-in page to log into the ZOOM room. You will be placed in a virtual waiting room until a counselor is available to meet with you. We are providing limited walk-in hours so that you can sit down and speak directly with one of our financial aid counselors. Wednesdays, 1-3pm Check in at the Husky Hall Welcome Desk If your financial aid has not disbursed check to see if: you are registered in full time credits (12 credits for undergraduate & 10 credits graduate). your document review has been completed. there are any holds on your account. You can call during our regular phones hours to speak with a financial aid representative. If you need to submit a document(s) to our office please make use of our Docusign option. Contact the Financial Aid Office immediately if your aid has not disbursed so that we can review your status. You can still submit your 2021-2022 application even though it's after the priority application date. You will be considered for the Federal Pell Grant and the Federal Direct Loans. The Child Care Assistance Program is available for 2021-2022. For more information on how to apply go to our Child Care Assistance Program page. ↑ Back to top Financial Aid News Phishing scams are running rampant during these times. Do not share any personal information such as user names/passwords, social security numbers, or credit card numbers with an unsolicited call or email. The latest phishing scam circulation amongst our UW population is the "Recalculation of Your Tax Refund Payment" email. It appears to be from a @uw.edu email address. Go here for more information on how to protect yourself from phishing scams. COVID-19 Updates Click HERE for COVID-19 and your UW Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions. For up-to-date campus information, visit the Coronavirus (COVID-19) resources page. CARES Act: Response to COVID-19 Pandemic FAQs ↑ Back to top University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us