Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School News Baylor>Baylor Law>About>News 2019 Winners Announced for The Closer January 31, 2019 2019 Winners Announced for The Closer, the Most Challenging Transactional Law Competition in the Country On January 17-20, students from ten of the best transactional law programs in the country gathered at Baylor Law to participate in the third annual Transactional Law competition. 2019 Winners of The Closer, Westford Lang (L) and Rajdeep Roger Bains (R) WACO, Texas - M. Stephen and Alyce A. Beard Chair in Business and Transactional Law Professor Beth Miller, architect of The Closer, with the 2019 winners. Rajdeep Roger Bains of the University of San Diego School of Law and Westford Lang of the University of Colorado Law School are this year's winners of The Closer, the most challenging transactional law competition in the country. Finalists for this year's competition were John Adgent of the University of Tennessee College of Law and Roy Smith of the University of Mississippi School of Law. John Kyed of the University of Denver Sturm College of Law was chosen by his fellow competitors as the winner of the Professionalism Award. The Closer is highly-selective competition with invitations extended to law schools whose programming demonstrates a commitment to excellence in practical transactional law training. Students from participating schools vied to win one of two $5,000 top prizes and bragging rights as a top closer. The annual competition, another example of Baylor Law's commitment to training practice-ready attorneys, provides hands-on exposure to one of the most important aspects of corporate law: contract drafting and negotiation. The Closer is unique in that the transaction that participants will need to negotiate is disclosed less than twenty-four hours prior to the first round of negotiations. The tight timeline forces competitors to identify the most important legal issues and devise and negotiate solutions that best serve their client's needs with the efficiency required of lawyers under realistic time constraints. Hypothetical Deal, Real World Technology Westford Lang of the University of Colorado Law School, representing "Waco Ventures, LLC." In this year's competition, participants negotiated a hypothetical term sheet outlining the terms and conditions under which a multimillion-dollar venture capital investment will be made in a real Texas technology startup, Viziv Technologies, LLC. Viziv Technologies is developing a new wireless method of delivering electrical energy over long distances. The fictional venture capital investor on the other side of the transaction was "Waco Ventures, LLC." Half of the competitors represented Viziv Technologies, and half represented Waco Ventures. During the competition, participants made a site visit to the 'BRIC,' the Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative, a fascinating 330,000-square-foot facility that was formerly a General Tire manufacturing facility. The building has been renovated and repurposed to provide a uniquely conceived climate for cultivation and development of new ideas, technologies and techniques centered on the BRIC's five foundational pillars: research, industry engagement, technology commercialization, workforce development and STEM educational outreach. Baylor University and Viziv Technologies are collaborative research partners. Through a series of 40-minute rounds of negotiations in front of experienced transactional lawyers, competitors are judged on their presence and professionalism, knowledge of legal and financial issues, and their efficacy in finding creative solutions to reach an agreement that satisfies their client's objectives while under strict time constraints. Keeping pressure on the competitors, breaking developments and new information from their clients are introduced to the finalists on the night before the final rounds. Closing the Deal – Under Pressure Rajdeep Roger Bains of the University of San Diego School of Law, representing the interests of Viziv Technologies, LLC. Rajdeep Roger Bains of the University of San Diego School of Law, was awarded the $5,000 prize for best representing the interests of Viziv Technologies, LLC, and Westford Lang of the University of Colorado Law School was awarded the $5,000 prize for best representing Waco Ventures, LLC. Representing your law school at a competition as fierce as The Closer can be stressful. Representing your school when your coach is also the Dean of your law school adds an additional layer of stress, but Rajdeep Roger Bains handled the added stress with total confidence. "You would never get this experience in the classroom or law school setting" commented Bains, who was coached by University of San Diego Law School Dean Stephen Ferruolo. Bains added, "It's really great that [Baylor Law] is providing practical experience and they really simulate real life… by having you work with the other side in such a short period of time." Few law school transactional law competitions have audiences watching the proceedings, but Westford Lang, who represented the fictional firm Waco Ventures, LLC, had the unique opportunity to take home the top prize with his mom cheering him on. This was because Lang's coach, Dallas attorney Theresa Searles, was also his competition coach. "I'm very grateful. It was a great experience," stated Westford Lang, "I had a unique situation where I was able to come down here and compete with my mom as my coach. It's a unique opportunity to even receive an invite, and it's a very select number of students that get the opportunity to compete." Final Round JUDGES SCORING THE FINAL ROUNDS WERE: Steve Bolden, Shareholder, Mahomes Bolden PC Glenn Callison, Shareholder, Munsch Hardt Kopf & Harr, P.C. Janice Davis, Partner, Bracewell LLP Jennifer Lindsey, Partner, Beard Kultgen Brophy Bostwick & Dickson, PLLC Greg Looser, Co-Founder & Partner, Clarion Ventures, LLC Judges for The Closer 2019 Making Tough Decisions. Left-right: Greg Looser, Jennifer Lindsey, Janice Davis, Glenn Callison, and Steve Bolden. BAYLOR LAW SCHOOL SINCERELY APPRECIATES THOSE WHO INVESTED IN THE CLOSER: Underwriters Kim and Bill Shaddock Sponsors Munsch Hardt Kopf & Harr, P.C. Law Office of Mark D. Foster J. Michael Tibbals/Freeman Mills PC Special thanks Viziv Technologies, LLC Baylor Research and Innovation Collaborative Baylor Law faculty, staff, and students who contributed their time and talents to make The Closer 2019 a success 2019 PARTICIPATING SCHOOLS AND COMPETITORS American University Washington College of Law - Gaensly Joseph South Texas College of Law Houston - Carlo Varela University of Colorado Law School - Westford Lang University of Denver Sturm College of Law - John Kyed University of Mississippi School of Law - Roy Smith II University of San Diego School of Law - Rajdeep Roger Bains University of Tennessee College of Law - John Adgent University of Missouri - Kansas City School of Law - Ani Mamisashvili Villanova University Charles Widger School of Law - Jason Kaner Widener University Delaware Law School - Sarkis Dramgotchian For more information about the competition, visit The Closer on Baylor Law School's website, or contact competition coordinator Professor Elizabeth Miller. UNDERWRITTEN BY SPONSORED BY SPECIAL THANKS TO MEDIA CONTACT: Ed Nelson, Director of Marketing & Communications EMAIL: Ed_Nelson@Baylor.edu PHONE: 254-710-6681 ABOUT BAYLOR LAW Established in 1857, Baylor Law was one of the first law schools in Texas and one of the first west of the Mississippi River. Today, the school has more than 7,500 living alumni. It is accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. Baylor Law has a record of producing outstanding lawyers, many of whom decide upon a career in public service. Baylor Law boasts two governors, members or former members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, two former directors of the FBI, U.S. ambassadors, federal judges, justices of the Texas Supreme Court and members of the Texas Legislature among its notable alumni. In its law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's trial advocacy program as one of the top 5 in the nation. Baylor Law School is also ranked #50 in the magazine's 2019 edition of "America's Best Graduate Schools." The National Jurist ranks Baylor Law as one of the "Best School for Practical Training," and #4 in the nation in its most recent "Best Law School Facilities" listing. The Business Insider places Baylor Law among the top 50 law schools in the nation. Baylor Law School received the 2015 American Bar Association Pro Bono Publico Award, making it only the third law school in the nation to be honored with the award since the award's inception in 1984. Learn more at baylor.edu/law ABOUT BAYLOR UNIVERSITY Baylor University is a private Christian University and a nationally ranked research institution. The University provides a vibrant campus community for more than 17,000 students by blending interdisciplinary research with an international reputation for educational excellence and a faculty commitment to teaching and scholarship. Chartered in 1845 by the Republic of Texas through the efforts of Baptist pioneers, Baylor is the oldest continually operating University in Texas. Located in Waco, Baylor welcomes students from all 50 states and more than 80 countries to study a broad range of degrees among its 12 nationally recognized academic divisions. Learn more at baylor.edu Are you looking for more News? All NewsArchives About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School