COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Collaborative Design, Major MajorCollaborative Design All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Digital Arts Wichita State’s Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts combines your creativity with the skills needed for your dream career in the video game, film or recording industry. You’ll have access to professional training in state-of-the-art labs equipped with the latest technology—and opportunities for applied learning in Kansas’ largest city. Learn how collaborative design is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Fine Arts, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Media arts students collaborate to create a feature film As a media arts student, you have access to various collaboration opportunities. One such collaboration between media arts and performing arts students resulted in a the creation of feature film, called “A Long Story Short.” The students benefited from the chance to collaborate with each other and learn new aspects of their chosen field, including helping with sound, photography, lights and setting up equipment. "Getting out of your comfort zone and just doing it is the best way to learn to do film," said filmmaking major Max Frish. Curriculum To complete the BAA in Media Arts degree with a concentration in collaborative design, you’ll take 120 credit hours comprised of general education requirements, electives and core courses spanning everything from audio production and coding to video storytelling and design thinking. View the curriculum Careers Thanks to WSU’s extensive network of employer connections, students in every major have opportunities to gain real-world experience—helping them build a resume, make professional connections and land their dream jobs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Electronic Media (Studio Art) Graphic Design Community & Social Practices (Studio Art) Filmmaking Game Design Applied Drawing (Studio Art) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©