By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home About Plan Your Visit Food & Lodging More from this Section Tips Parking Syracuse, NY Food and Lodging With hundreds of restaurants and hotels in the Greater Syracuse area, you're sure to find food and lodging which suits your tastes and budget. Syracuse University offers dining and lodging options directly on campus, but you'll also find a variety of options nearby. Where to Stay Please Note: Several hotels near the Syracuse University campus are used to house current students who have been exposed to COVID-19. Students are confined to certain floors and precautions are taken to keep them separated from other hotel guests. Please check with your hotel prior to booking for more information. The Sheraton Syracuse University Hotel and Conference Center is the only hotel affiliated with Syracuse University. For reservations, visit their site or call 800.395.2105. A number of hotels are within walking distance of campus, with many others only short drives from the University. For a complete list, visit the Syracuse Convention and Visitors Bureau . To view hotels close to campus, select “Syracuse University” or “Downtown” as the location in the Regions menu. What to Eat If you're staying on or close to campus, Syracuse University and Marshall Street offer plenty of choices for dining out. Visit one of our many food courts, cafés, or on-campus restaurants for a taste of Syracuse University. Just a few steps away from campus, you'll find the Marshall Street area, home to more than 30 restaurants and cafés, including well-known national spots and local favorites serving Chinese, Korean, Indian, Japanese, Mediterranean, Thai, and vegan cuisines. View a full list of dining options in the City of Syracuse . And don't forget to try salt potatoes—a local favorite! Related Pages Food Courts and Cafés Food courts and cafés on campus offer lots of choices, whether you're on the run or want to catch up with friends over a cup of coffee. Syracuse Convention & Visitors Bureau Explore all that the City of Syracuse has to offer, including places to stay and eat, and plenty of things to do. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy