Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display Skip to Content × Close Menu Close Academics Academics Academic Programs Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Medicine Nursing Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Admissions Visiting Seton Hall Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Athletics SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now About About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet About About Seton Hall Hallmarks Rankings Mission Statement Campus Life Diversity and Inclusion History Visit Seton Hall Office of the President Events PirateNet SUPPORT SHU University Site Search Academics Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Continuing Education Online Programs Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs Special Programs Summer Sessions International Programs Schools and Colleges Arts and Sciences Business Communication and the Arts Diplomacy and International Relations Education and Human Services Health and Medical Sciences Law Nursing Theology Additional Resources Experiential Learning Advising Faculty Departments Centers and Institutes Core Curriculum University Libraries Academic Calendar Grants and Research Office of the Provost Admissions Visit Campus Tour Schedule Monday - Friday: 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Saturday: 10 a.m., Noon and 2 p.m. Visiting Seton Hall Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Students Catholic Mission Catholic Mission Mission and Ministry Priest Community Catholic Studies Theology Additional Resources Mass Schedule Centers and Institutes Archdiocese Athletics Seton Hall Pirates SHUPirates.com Athletics Resources Schedules Tickets Pirate Blue Facilities eSports and Gaming Alumni Alumni and Friends Alumni Home Alumni Directory Share Your News Benefits and Services E-mail Accounts Request a Transcript True Blue Support Seton Hall Why Seton Hall? Ways to Give Give Now Seton Hall University News SHU Reads! Committee Selects Just Mercy for Second Year in a Row Monday, May 16, 2022 By Monica Burnette For the second year in a row, the University SHU Reads! Planning Committee is proud to announce the 2022 text selection-- Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption by Bryan Stevenson, the executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI) and professor at New York University Law School. Just Mercy is Stevenson's award-winning memoir about the origins of the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI), a human rights organization in Montgomery, Alabama. Stevenson writes about EJI's early days with a small staff facing the nation's highest death sentencing and execution rates through a successful campaign to challenge the cruel practice of sentencing children to die in prison, as well as more revolutionary projects focusing on America's history of racial injustice. Stevenson explains how the cases described in Just Mercy forever transformed his understanding of humanity and justice. Stevenson has received numerous awards, including the MacArthur Foundation "Genius" Prize, the NAACP William Robert Ming Advocacy Award, and the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize. On November 7, 2021, Bryan Stevenson received an honorary doctorate degree (Litterarum Humanarum Doctoris) from Seton Hall in recognition of his lifelong commitment to social justice and advocacy for the poor, the incarcerated and the condemned – including legal representation for death row inmates and a host of extraordinary achievements as a widely acclaimed public interest lawyer. Since 2003, all incoming first-year students have read a common book over the summer to introduce them to academic and student life at Seton Hall. Formerly called the Summer Reading Program and now called SHU Reads!, the nominated text presents a shared experience to foster thoughtful discussion and engagement in University Life, the first-year English classes, and throughout the academic year. The Committee felt this timely selection also presents a unique opportunity for current students to re-engage with the text and provide ways for them to connect and mentor incoming first-year students. Dr. Kelly Shea, Associate Professor of English and Director of First-Year Writing, said, "The selection of Just Mercy is an excellent one for so many reasons - it is an essential book for our time and for all time." Dr. Nancy Enright, Director of the University Core, shared, "Just Mercy is a wonderful and timely choice – fitting in with our mission and DEI goals, and inspiring for young adults setting out on their career paths." Just Mercy is the winner of several awards, including the Carnegie Medal for Excellence in Nonfiction, NAACP Image Award for Nonfiction, Books for a Better Life, An American Library Association Notable Book, and finalists for the Los Angeles Times Book Prize and Kirkus Reviews Prize. Please fill out our Suggestion Box if you have suggestions on engaging the Seton Hall community with this text through guest speakers, panels, lectures, film, or other ideas. Categories: Campus Life , Education For more information, please contact: Monica Burnette (973) 761-9147 monica.burnette@shu.edu RELATED NEWS NEWS CATEGORIES Alumni Arts and Culture Athletics Business Campus Life Education Faith and Service Health and Medicine Law Nation and World Research Science and Technology Seton Hall University 400 South Orange Ave South Orange, NJ 07079 (973) 761-9000 Privacy Statements Title IX Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Contact Us Student Services Parents and Families Career Center Technology Web Accessibility Visiting Campus Public Safety Disability Support Services Campus Security Report Employment Follow #SetonHall www.shu.edu/social Back to top