COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert COVID-19 Testing and Vaccinations Current WSU students, faculty and staff can now walk in for a free COVID-19 test at Student Health Services. For registration and eligibility for testing visit our COVID-19 Testing page. For registration, eligibility and locations for vaccines visit our COVID-19 Vaccinations page. Health Insurance Domestic Section Menu Student Health Services Home After Hour Care / Medical Emergencies About Us COVID-19 Testing COVID-19 Vaccinations Events Forms Health Insurance Medications Meningitis Office Hours Policies Services Travel and Health Advisories Tuberculosis Uploading Health Documents Vaccination Information Vaccination Videos Wellness Resources Domestic Student Health Insurance Information Let’s face it - health care is expensive. One significant injury or illness can affect your ability to keep up with your classes AND end up costing you a lot of money – especially if you don't have health insurance. The federal Affordable Care Act has provided you with some options on getting health insurance coverage. Remember any enrolled students can use Student Health Services regardless of their health insurance coverage or health insurance carrier. Please note – the information below applies only to domestic students. View information about health coverage for international students. Understanding your options for health insurance coverage There are several options for young adults when it comes to health insurance coverage. Consider which option will work best for you and your budget. Getting or staying on a parent’s plan: Are you under age 26? You may be able to get on a parent’s health insurance plan. Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), your parents can add you to their health insurance plan and pay for the additional coverage. Your parents should check with their health insurance company or their employer’s benefit department. Health Insurance plans for college students: Eligible students can purchase health insurance coverage through United Healthcare Student Resources (UHCSR). The Kansas Board of Regents has contracted with UHCSR to provide optional health insurance for all the Regents universities. *Due to KBOR regulations, The Student Insurance Plan is not available to Online Only students. 2020-2021 UHSCR Plan Summary Brochure and Plan Brochure Certificate It may be less expensive to purchase health insurance under this plan than what your parents have to pay to have you on their insurance. The UHCSR plan is currently the only health insurance plan offered in conjunction with the university. This means the plan pays the most when you see us at Student Health. Remember, you don't need insurance to be seen at Student Health Services. You can be seen at Student Health Services no matter what insurance you have. We can file with most insurance companies but you will need to check with your insurance to determine if we are in-network or out-of-network. If you opt to purchase the UHCSR insurance, here are some additional resources that may be helpful. Create your UHCSR account and print off your insurance card (PDF) Mobile access to UHCSR UHCSR NurseLine and Student Assistance Program (PDF) Contact UHCSR at 1-800-767-0700 or visit the UHCSR website. Use the Health Insurance Marketplace to buy your own insurance plan: Kansas uses the federal health insurance marketplace or exchange found at healthcare.gov. Depending on your situation, you might be able to buy your own plan through the marketplace. You can apply online through the healthcare.gov website. If you need help applying through the marketplace or have questions because of your specific situation, there are local marketplace Navigators and Assistors that can help you. Learn more about local resources for help One catch: If someone claims you as a tax dependent (like your parents), you can buy a plan through the Marketplace but won't qualify for savings based on your income. Information resource is the HealthCare.gov website. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©