Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust to help advance Iowa State University’s research related to childhood respiratory virus The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $350,125 to advance the research of the role vitamin A plays in boosting the immune system’s response to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a leading cause of respiratory disease in infants and young children worldwide. $3 million Kingland gift supports expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University Kingland, based in Clear Lake, Iowa, and David and Deb Kingland recently committed $3 million in support of an expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University. Iowa State University holds ribbon-cutting ceremony for renovated space at Parks Library Iowa State University held an official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday, Oct. 30, to mark the completion of a $1.2 million renovation of the first-floor commons area at Parks Library. Savencia Cheese USA establishes scholarship to honor first woman to receive dairy science degree from Iowa State University Savencia Cheese USA has established the Dorothy Demeter – Savencia Cheese USA Undergraduate Scholarship, honoring the first woman to receive a dairy science degree from Iowa State University and highlighting the potential of women to succeed in dairy foods careers. Iowa State University Foundation Presents 2019 Emerging Philanthropist Award David and Christine Slump of Weston, Connecticut, have been awarded the 2019 Order of the Knoll Emerging Philanthropist Award. This award recognizes individuals or couples who have provided philanthropic support and creative leadership to the Iowa State University Foundation and Iowa State University through the advancement of philanthropy. Iowa Crop Improvement Association Commits $1.5 Million for Iowa State University’s Feed Mill Project The Iowa Crop Improvement Association has pledged $1.5 million to Iowa State University’s feed mill and grain science complex. Iowa State University Breaks Ground for New Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex Iowa State University broke ground Friday, Sept. 13, to mark the start of construction of its $21.2 million Kent Corporation Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex (name pending approval by the Board of Regents, State of Iowa). Peters named Roy J. Carver Professor in Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Reuben Peters, professor in Iowa State University’s Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology (BBMB), was selected as a Roy J. Carver Professor of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology by Beate Schmittmann, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and Daniel J. Robison, Endowed Dean’s Chair of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Iowa State University Foundation Workshop Focuses on the Power of Education The Iowa State University Foundation Women & Philanthropy Committee is hosting the “The Power of Education” workshop from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 17, at the Iowa State University Memorial Union, 2229 Lincoln Way, in Ames. Forever True, For Iowa State campaign momentum continues to surge Forever True, For Iowa State, Iowa State University’s multi-year fundraising campaign, has raised $1.2 billion, which is 80 percent of its goal of raising $1.5 billion by 2021. During the 2019 ﬁscal year, which ended June 30, the Iowa State University Foundation raised $182 million to support the students, faculty, facilities and programs of the university. Iowa State University Foundation Board of Directors names new chair and officers, and welcomes a new member The Iowa State University Foundation announces that Gary J. Streit of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has been appointed chair of the organization’s board of directors, and two current members will serve as officers. In addition, Thea (Ted) Oberlander of Des Moines, Iowa, will become a new member of the board. The appointments are effective July 1. Iowa State University Foundation Governors Elected The Iowa State University Foundation recently added nine new Governors to its volunteer ranks. CPM Donates $2.6 Million to Iowa State University Feed Mill Project California Pellet Mill (CPM), the world's leading supplier of animal feed processing equipment, is donating nearly $2.6 million in equipment to a new educational and research facility for feed milling and grain science at Iowa State University. Iowa State University Foundation presents distinguished awards The Iowa State University Foundation recognized the outstanding contributions of alumni and friends of Iowa State University with its most prestigious honors during the annual Distinguished Awards Celebration held Friday, April 26, at Iowa State University’s Benton Auditorium. Iowa State University medallion ceremony celebrates installation of Robison as College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair A medallion ceremony in the Iowa State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences celebrated the installation of Daniel Robison as the holder of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair. Iowa State University President Wendy Wintersteen presented the medallion on Wednesday, April 24, in the Dolezal Auditorium in Curtiss Hall. Iowa State University Foundation celebrates Forever True Week on Ames campus The Iowa State University Foundation is celebrating the impact Iowa State University’s generous alumni and friends have made on campus during Forever True Week April 8-12. Iowa State University installs holder of Kent Corporation Chair in Business A medallion ceremony in the Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business celebrated the official installation of Iowa State University Finance Professor Paul Koch as the inaugural holder of the Kent Corporation Chair in Business. Iowa State President Wendy Wintersteen and Raisbeck Endowed Dean of the Ivy College of Business David Spalding presented the medallions on Friday, April 5, at The Knoll. CIRAS to Partner with Alliant Energy, Open new Digital Manufacturing Lab Iowa State University’s Center for Industrial Research and Service (CIRAS) is pleased to announce a new partnership with Alliant Energy that will make it easier for Iowa manufacturers to implement new digital technologies and become more productive. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust’s commitment of $3.5 million will advance biomolecular research at Iowa State University The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed more than $3.5 million to transform biomolecular research at Iowa State University, making it a leader in advanced electron microscopy technology. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust Grants support innovative research and learning opportunities at Iowa State University A trio of grants by the Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, will further advance areas at Iowa State University. These projects build upon others previously benefiting from Carver Trust support, demonstrating both its commitment to Iowa State over the long term and to advancing scientific knowledge to improve human health and strengthening innovative learning opportunities for students throughout Iowa. $1 million gift from HNI Corporation to Support Iowa State University’s Student Innovation Center HNI Corporation of Muscatine, Iowa, has announced a $1 million commitment to Iowa State University that will enhance the educational experience on campus and help prepare leaders for tomorrow’s innovative, interdisciplinary workplace. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust to help advance Iowa State University’s research related to childhood respiratory virus The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $350,125 to advance the research of the role vitamin A plays in boosting the immune system’s response to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a leading cause of respiratory disease in infants and young children worldwide. $3 million Kingland gift supports expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University Kingland, based in Clear Lake, Iowa, and David and Deb Kingland recently committed $3 million in support of an expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University. Iowa State University holds ribbon-cutting ceremony for renovated space at Parks Library Iowa State University held an official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday, Oct. 30, to mark the completion of a $1.2 million renovation of the first-floor commons area at Parks Library. Savencia Cheese USA establishes scholarship to honor first woman to receive dairy science degree from Iowa State University Savencia Cheese USA has established the Dorothy Demeter – Savencia Cheese USA Undergraduate Scholarship, honoring the first woman to receive a dairy science degree from Iowa State University and highlighting the potential of women to succeed in dairy foods careers. Iowa State University Foundation Presents 2019 Emerging Philanthropist Award David and Christine Slump of Weston, Connecticut, have been awarded the 2019 Order of the Knoll Emerging Philanthropist Award. This award recognizes individuals or couples who have provided philanthropic support and creative leadership to the Iowa State University Foundation and Iowa State University through the advancement of philanthropy. Iowa Crop Improvement Association Commits $1.5 Million for Iowa State University’s Feed Mill Project The Iowa Crop Improvement Association has pledged $1.5 million to Iowa State University’s feed mill and grain science complex. Iowa State University Breaks Ground for New Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex Iowa State University broke ground Friday, Sept. 13, to mark the start of construction of its $21.2 million Kent Corporation Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex (name pending approval by the Board of Regents, State of Iowa). Peters named Roy J. Carver Professor in Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Reuben Peters, professor in Iowa State University’s Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology (BBMB), was selected as a Roy J. Carver Professor of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology by Beate Schmittmann, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and Daniel J. Robison, Endowed Dean’s Chair of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Iowa State University Foundation Workshop Focuses on the Power of Education The Iowa State University Foundation Women & Philanthropy Committee is hosting the “The Power of Education” workshop from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 17, at the Iowa State University Memorial Union, 2229 Lincoln Way, in Ames. Forever True, For Iowa State campaign momentum continues to surge Forever True, For Iowa State, Iowa State University’s multi-year fundraising campaign, has raised $1.2 billion, which is 80 percent of its goal of raising $1.5 billion by 2021. During the 2019 ﬁscal year, which ended June 30, the Iowa State University Foundation raised $182 million to support the students, faculty, facilities and programs of the university. Iowa State University Foundation Board of Directors names new chair and officers, and welcomes a new member The Iowa State University Foundation announces that Gary J. Streit of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has been appointed chair of the organization’s board of directors, and two current members will serve as officers. In addition, Thea (Ted) Oberlander of Des Moines, Iowa, will become a new member of the board. The appointments are effective July 1. Iowa State University Foundation Governors Elected The Iowa State University Foundation recently added nine new Governors to its volunteer ranks. CPM Donates $2.6 Million to Iowa State University Feed Mill Project California Pellet Mill (CPM), the world's leading supplier of animal feed processing equipment, is donating nearly $2.6 million in equipment to a new educational and research facility for feed milling and grain science at Iowa State University. Iowa State University Foundation presents distinguished awards The Iowa State University Foundation recognized the outstanding contributions of alumni and friends of Iowa State University with its most prestigious honors during the annual Distinguished Awards Celebration held Friday, April 26, at Iowa State University’s Benton Auditorium. Iowa State University medallion ceremony celebrates installation of Robison as College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair A medallion ceremony in the Iowa State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences celebrated the installation of Daniel Robison as the holder of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair. Iowa State University President Wendy Wintersteen presented the medallion on Wednesday, April 24, in the Dolezal Auditorium in Curtiss Hall. Iowa State University Foundation celebrates Forever True Week on Ames campus The Iowa State University Foundation is celebrating the impact Iowa State University’s generous alumni and friends have made on campus during Forever True Week April 8-12. Iowa State University installs holder of Kent Corporation Chair in Business A medallion ceremony in the Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business celebrated the official installation of Iowa State University Finance Professor Paul Koch as the inaugural holder of the Kent Corporation Chair in Business. Iowa State President Wendy Wintersteen and Raisbeck Endowed Dean of the Ivy College of Business David Spalding presented the medallions on Friday, April 5, at The Knoll. CIRAS to Partner with Alliant Energy, Open new Digital Manufacturing Lab Iowa State University’s Center for Industrial Research and Service (CIRAS) is pleased to announce a new partnership with Alliant Energy that will make it easier for Iowa manufacturers to implement new digital technologies and become more productive. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust’s commitment of $3.5 million will advance biomolecular research at Iowa State University The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed more than $3.5 million to transform biomolecular research at Iowa State University, making it a leader in advanced electron microscopy technology. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust Grants support innovative research and learning opportunities at Iowa State University A trio of grants by the Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, will further advance areas at Iowa State University. These projects build upon others previously benefiting from Carver Trust support, demonstrating both its commitment to Iowa State over the long term and to advancing scientific knowledge to improve human health and strengthening innovative learning opportunities for students throughout Iowa. $1 million gift from HNI Corporation to Support Iowa State University’s Student Innovation Center HNI Corporation of Muscatine, Iowa, has announced a $1 million commitment to Iowa State University that will enhance the educational experience on campus and help prepare leaders for tomorrow’s innovative, interdisciplinary workplace. Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home News and Stories Archive 2019 Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust to help advance Iowa State University’s research related to childhood respiratory virus The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed $350,125 to advance the research of the role vitamin A plays in boosting the immune system’s response to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a leading cause of respiratory disease in infants and young children worldwide. $3 million Kingland gift supports expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University Kingland, based in Clear Lake, Iowa, and David and Deb Kingland recently committed $3 million in support of an expansion to the Gerdin Business Building at Iowa State University. Iowa State University holds ribbon-cutting ceremony for renovated space at Parks Library Iowa State University held an official ribbon-cutting ceremony on Wednesday, Oct. 30, to mark the completion of a $1.2 million renovation of the first-floor commons area at Parks Library. Savencia Cheese USA establishes scholarship to honor first woman to receive dairy science degree from Iowa State University Savencia Cheese USA has established the Dorothy Demeter – Savencia Cheese USA Undergraduate Scholarship, honoring the first woman to receive a dairy science degree from Iowa State University and highlighting the potential of women to succeed in dairy foods careers. Iowa State University Foundation Presents 2019 Emerging Philanthropist Award David and Christine Slump of Weston, Connecticut, have been awarded the 2019 Order of the Knoll Emerging Philanthropist Award. This award recognizes individuals or couples who have provided philanthropic support and creative leadership to the Iowa State University Foundation and Iowa State University through the advancement of philanthropy. Iowa Crop Improvement Association Commits $1.5 Million for Iowa State University’s Feed Mill Project The Iowa Crop Improvement Association has pledged $1.5 million to Iowa State University’s feed mill and grain science complex. Iowa State University Breaks Ground for New Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex Iowa State University broke ground Friday, Sept. 13, to mark the start of construction of its $21.2 million Kent Corporation Feed Mill and Grain Science Complex (name pending approval by the Board of Regents, State of Iowa). Peters named Roy J. Carver Professor in Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Reuben Peters, professor in Iowa State University’s Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology (BBMB), was selected as a Roy J. Carver Professor of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology by Beate Schmittmann, dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and Daniel J. Robison, Endowed Dean’s Chair of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Iowa State University Foundation Workshop Focuses on the Power of Education The Iowa State University Foundation Women & Philanthropy Committee is hosting the “The Power of Education” workshop from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 17, at the Iowa State University Memorial Union, 2229 Lincoln Way, in Ames. Forever True, For Iowa State campaign momentum continues to surge Forever True, For Iowa State, Iowa State University’s multi-year fundraising campaign, has raised $1.2 billion, which is 80 percent of its goal of raising $1.5 billion by 2021. During the 2019 ﬁscal year, which ended June 30, the Iowa State University Foundation raised $182 million to support the students, faculty, facilities and programs of the university. Iowa State University Foundation Board of Directors names new chair and officers, and welcomes a new member The Iowa State University Foundation announces that Gary J. Streit of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, has been appointed chair of the organization’s board of directors, and two current members will serve as officers. In addition, Thea (Ted) Oberlander of Des Moines, Iowa, will become a new member of the board. The appointments are effective July 1. Iowa State University Foundation Governors Elected The Iowa State University Foundation recently added nine new Governors to its volunteer ranks. CPM Donates $2.6 Million to Iowa State University Feed Mill Project California Pellet Mill (CPM), the world's leading supplier of animal feed processing equipment, is donating nearly $2.6 million in equipment to a new educational and research facility for feed milling and grain science at Iowa State University. Iowa State University Foundation presents distinguished awards The Iowa State University Foundation recognized the outstanding contributions of alumni and friends of Iowa State University with its most prestigious honors during the annual Distinguished Awards Celebration held Friday, April 26, at Iowa State University’s Benton Auditorium. Iowa State University medallion ceremony celebrates installation of Robison as College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair A medallion ceremony in the Iowa State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences celebrated the installation of Daniel Robison as the holder of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Endowed Dean’s Chair. Iowa State University President Wendy Wintersteen presented the medallion on Wednesday, April 24, in the Dolezal Auditorium in Curtiss Hall. Iowa State University Foundation celebrates Forever True Week on Ames campus The Iowa State University Foundation is celebrating the impact Iowa State University’s generous alumni and friends have made on campus during Forever True Week April 8-12. Iowa State University installs holder of Kent Corporation Chair in Business A medallion ceremony in the Debbie and Jerry Ivy College of Business celebrated the official installation of Iowa State University Finance Professor Paul Koch as the inaugural holder of the Kent Corporation Chair in Business. Iowa State President Wendy Wintersteen and Raisbeck Endowed Dean of the Ivy College of Business David Spalding presented the medallions on Friday, April 5, at The Knoll. CIRAS to Partner with Alliant Energy, Open new Digital Manufacturing Lab Iowa State University’s Center for Industrial Research and Service (CIRAS) is pleased to announce a new partnership with Alliant Energy that will make it easier for Iowa manufacturers to implement new digital technologies and become more productive. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust’s commitment of $3.5 million will advance biomolecular research at Iowa State University The Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, has committed more than $3.5 million to transform biomolecular research at Iowa State University, making it a leader in advanced electron microscopy technology. Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust Grants support innovative research and learning opportunities at Iowa State University A trio of grants by the Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, will further advance areas at Iowa State University. These projects build upon others previously benefiting from Carver Trust support, demonstrating both its commitment to Iowa State over the long term and to advancing scientific knowledge to improve human health and strengthening innovative learning opportunities for students throughout Iowa. $1 million gift from HNI Corporation to Support Iowa State University’s Student Innovation Center HNI Corporation of Muscatine, Iowa, has announced a $1 million commitment to Iowa State University that will enhance the educational experience on campus and help prepare leaders for tomorrow’s innovative, interdisciplinary workplace. Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories News Archive 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top