Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home About : Jobs at the iSchool Jobs at the iSchool Explore the iSchool Vision & Core Values Diversity & Inclusion About UT Austin About Austin, Texas The School of Information is a premier research and education leader in the field of information. With more than twenty faculty, a range of joint appointees from across the University, and numerous adjunct faculty selected for their expertise in information studies, the iSchool balances the values of information access as a human and social benefit, with the intellectual and technical skills needed to lead developments in the information age. Our employees are our most important asset in fulfilling the iSchool's commitment to making a difference in the lives of all people by enabling and supporting the organization and experience of information in ways that make the world a better and fairer place. The University of Texas at Austin is a nationally ranked, tier-one research institution located in the heart of Austin—a vibrant city that frequently appears on lists of best cities to live and work. The university offers competitive salaries and benefits, an extensive support network, and above all, an enriching and highly collaborative community that is deeply passionate about our vision for higher education and public service. Current job opportunities: Faculty Positions iSchool Faculty Positions in Austin The School of Information at the University of Texas at Austin invites applications for our faculty positions to start in Fall 2022: Assistant/Associate Professor of Instruction or Practice (non-tenure track) in the areas of: programming (python), statistics, human-centered data science, user experience design, cultural heritage informatics, social justice informatics, health informatics, or social informatics. Application Instructions Applications will be accepted until the positions are filled. We will begin to review applications and interview candidates on November 1, 2021. Please apply via Interfolio's Faculty Search solution. If you do not have a Dossier account with Interfolio, you will be prompted to create a free account prior to applying for the position. Questions about these positions may be sent to facultysearch@ischool.utexas.edu or to the search committee chairs. Postdoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellow in Sociotechnical Studies of Robotics The Living and Working with Robots (LWR) project at UT Austin invites applications for a postdoctoral fellow who conducts sociotechnical research at the intersection of emerging technologies and real-world communities. As a Core Research Project of the Good Systems Research Grand Challenge, the LWR project’s mission is to build and study robot systems designed to benefit the specific communities in which they are deployed. The selected researcher will become a valued member of our multidisciplinary team, supervised by LWR Co-Lead Dr. Elliott Hauser of the School of Information. The fellow is expected to collaborate on existing LWR projects and to lead one or more independent research projects involving our site. An individualized mentoring and career development plan will include a secondary faculty mentor, chosen by mutual agreement, and peer mentoring opportunities with other UT Austin postdoctoral fellows. Compensation includes salary, benefits, and generous research and travel support. Application Instructions We will begin to review applications on May 1, 2022 for an anticipated start date of September 1, 2022, or as negotiated with the successful candidate. Please apply via the position’s Interfolio page. If you do not have a Dossier account with Interfolio, you will be prompted to create a free account prior to applying for the position. Questions about the position or the application process are welcome and should be directed to Dr. Elliott Hauser (eah13@utexas.edu) The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022