Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give About Us Student Well-Being Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes News Give Search About Us About the Division Departments & Areas Strategic Plan Leadership About Dr. Whitely Contact Us Office of the Vice President Student Well-Being Well-Being Resources Healthy 'Cane Network 'Canes Care for 'Canes COVID-19 Resources Resources COVID-19 Resources Student Resources Staff Resources Graduate Assistantships 'Canes Care for 'Canes Report a Concern News Give Our COVID-19 Response Virtual Programs and Services 'Canes Care for 'Canes About Us Resources Leadership Staff Support News Give Home Resources 'Canes Care for 'Canes AAA 'Canes Care for 'Canes ’Canes Care for ’Canes is a call to our community to look out and stand up for one another. By aiming to achieve a campus community where all ’Canes respect and support each other, every member of our community will know that they belong. We accomplish this together by caring, even in the smallest ways, for one another. If you take a moment to care about a classmate, friend, or a fellow 'Cane, you will make a difference in the life of another person. Report a Concern If you know a fellow 'Cane in need, take action now by submitting your concern—anonymously if you choose—to get them the help and support they need to be successful. If this is an emergency or there is an immediate threat of harm to a student or the community, contact University Police at 305-284-6666, the Miller School of Medicine Public Safety at 305-243-6000, or dial 911. Additionally, in response to the COVID-19 global pandemic, members of the University community are asked to do their part in helping to slow the spread by practicing a variety of healthy behaviors including physical distancing, wearing face coverings, as well as frequently washing your hands and using hand sanitizer. Furthermore, students must not host or attend large gatherings—whether on or off campus—where physical distancing cannot be maintained. Students are encouraged to report concerns about unsafe behaviors to 'Canes Care for 'Canes by completing the form below. Report a Concern The reports are reviewed by designated University administrators who will reach out and respond to the student of concern by the next business day. It is our goal to intervene before the student reaches a crisis level. If you are a University faculty, staff, or administrator, we encourage you to reach out directly to the Dean of Students Office or Office of the Senior Vice President for Student Affairs. Anyone providing false information may be subject to University disciplinary action. Bias-Related Incident Reporting To foster a Culture of Belonging, the University of Miami encourages everyone to report bias incidents that occur in our community so that inappropriate and unwelcome behavior may be properly addressed and the community at large can be educated. A bias incident - defined as an action, behavior, or expression against an individual’s or group’s actual or perceived identity - can be reported to the Dean of Students Office via this form. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Division of Student Affairs 1252 Memorial Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4922 305-284-4922 vpsa@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices