Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The Office of the Provost Show/Hide About People Communications Committees & Reports Policies & Procedures Initiatives & Resources Related Areas Opportunity in America: Improving Intergenerational Mobility with Big Data Wednesday, March 7, 2018 5:00 pm Reception to follow Joukowsky Forum Watson Institute 111 Thayer Street Biography John N. Friedman is an Associate Professor of Economics and International and Public Affairs at Brown University, as well as a director of the Equality of Opportunity Project. His research brings together theory and data and harnesses the power of large administrative datasets to yield policy-relevant insights on a wide range of topics, including taxation, education, retirement, and healthcare. His work has appeared in top academic journals as well as in major media outlets, and his work was cited by President Obama in his 2012 State of the Union Address. From 2013-2014, Prof. Friedman worked as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy at the National Economic Council in the White House. He holds a Ph.D. in Economics, an A.M. in Statistics, and a B.A. in Economics, all from Harvard University. He is also a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Overview Children's opportunities to climb the income ladder vary substantially depending upon where they grow up. But the question remains: what can we do about it? Friedman will discuss how we can use big data to take this next step, using both higher education and place-based policies as examples. In particular, he will demonstrate how big data offers new opportunities for scholars to diagnose problems and develop policies specific to each setting - in effect, precision medicine for social science. Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Provost Office of the Provost Brown University Box 1862 Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2706 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat