Powercat chevron double-chevron chat-purple home computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Updates Search Search COVID-19 updates The university's priority throughout this evolving situation will always be to protect the health and safety of everyone at K-State and in our communities. Highlights: K-State strongly encourages — but does not require — that everyone wear masks while indoors on university property. The university has updated its isolation and quarantine procedures. K-State is pausing the COVID-19 vaccine requirement. Learn more. Lafene Health Center is offering COVID-19 vaccine opportunities. Learn other ways to find a COVID-19 vaccine. Communications Read all communications related to COVID-19. Learn more https://www.k-state.edu/covid-19/communications Y purple medium-basic Learn more Guidance and FAQ Come back, 'Cats. Get guidance for students, faculty, staff and visitors and find frequently asked questions. Learn more https://www.k-state.edu/covid-19/guidance/ Y purple medium-basic Learn more Vaccines Learn about COVID-19 vaccines and how to find one. Learn more https://www.k-state.edu/covid-19/vaccine/ Y purple medium-basic Learn more Every Wildcat a Wellcat You are K-State. Your health and safety and that of the K-State community are important. Learn more Centers for Disease Control and PreventionGet the latest information about coronavirus and travel restrictions from the CDC. Kansas Department of Health and EnvironmentAccess information and recommendations about COVID-19 from the Kansas Department of Health and Environment. K-State News 128 Dole Hall 1525 Mid-Campus Dr North, Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-2535 | 785-532-7355 fax | covid19@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 3/1/22