Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Electrical Engineering MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Electrical Engineering MS Apply Request More Info Electrical Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Electrical Engineering Master of Science The Electrical Engineering Master of Science is an interdisciplinary, practice-oriented program in the College of Engineering. Benefit from hands-on research opportunities, and investigate the mechanisms that support the technological fabric of our lives, including computers and the internet. As a master’s student, you’ll enjoy a flexible range of courses with many opportunities for electives to fit your particular academic and professional interests. Work closely with an advisor to chart a personalized course through the program. The small size and welcoming environment of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and its faculty make for a uniquely engaged learning experience. Professors operate according to an open-door policy, so you can visit them regularly outside of class to brainstorm independent research projects, discuss questions or talk through issues of professional development. The diverse personal and professional experiences of the student body add value to class projects, discussions and group work. Credit Requirements The Electrical Engineering MS requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Classes & Curriculum The Electrical Engineering degree comes with a great deal of flexibility: You can choose to study full or part time, with most classes beginning after 4:30 p.m. Many students finish their requirements in two years, though the time limit for completion is five years. Some students enter the master’s program directly from an undergraduate degree to complete the program full time. Many students work in industry while completing their master’s degree part time. Take a look at the full list of required courses. You’ll choose one of three tracks. Thesis 24 credits of course work six credits of thesis work Project 27 credits of didactic course work three credits of project work Course work 30 credits of didactic course work Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Electrical Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Diversity The College of Engineering reflects the diversity that has always been a hallmark of life at Temple. With students from all 50 states, 129 countries and with cultural backgrounds of all kinds, Temple’s classrooms are enriched with countless perspectives, giving students a global point of view across disciplines and fields, and strengthening bonds that encourage success among students. As a community, Temple’s shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for all members of the Temple community, providing a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to learn, work and grow. Related Graduate Degrees Computer and Systems Security PSM Computer and Systems Security Certificate (Graduate) Electrical Engineering PhD Student Clubs & Organizations From Engineers Without Borders to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and other societies, student clubs in the College of Engineering provide numerous ways to network, socialize and excel outside the classroom. Learn more about the College of Engineering’s student clubs and organizations. Our Advisors You will be assigned a faculty advisor to guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Learn more about the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. EN-ECE-MSEE Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Electrical Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info