Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid HEERF Reporting HEERF II - Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) HEERF II - Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) SMU Distributes $2.3 million in Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds (HEERF II) as authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) Direct payments will support low-income undergraduate and graduate students SMU is directing an additional $2.3 million in funds from the Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) to support over 1800 undergraduate and graduate students with high financial need. This money from the Coronavirus Response and Relief Appropriations Act (CRRSAA) Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF II) is the second major financial relief package specifically for high need students facing significant financial challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Similar to the HEERF I disbursements, this one-time payment of either $1,500 or $1,000 will go to students who have the greatest financial need as demonstrated on their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The larger grants will go to those students eligible for the federal Pell Grant or with an equivalent Expected Family Contribution (EFC). These funds are intended to help SMU’s most financially vulnerable students with expenses associated with disruptions from the pandemic, including expenses resulting from a loss of employment, travel restrictions, and unexpected changes in housing as well as remaining tuition and fee charges. Eligible students will receive emails from both SMU and Chase Bank with instructions for using Chase QuickPay® to receive funds. All eligible students with a U.S. bank account can access money through Chase QuickPay® regardless of which bank they use. Eligible students must be currently enrolled at SMU as of March 29, 2021, and must have received need-based aid or a Federal/State loan for the Spring 2021 term. This aid could include need-based grants, federal loans or earnings from the federal or state college work study program. SMU recognizes that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to create a financial burden for the families of many students who do not necessarily qualify for federal aid. Students with additional needs should complete a request for emergency funding through Caring Community Connections (CCC). Alumni and friends who wish to donate money to support students impacted by hardships surrounding COVID-19 may give to the Presidential Fund for Immediate Needs. If you have additional questions about the CRRSAA-HEERF II financial relief package, please see HEERF Frequently Asked Questions page or contact the Division of Enrollment Services at enrol_serv@smu.edu or 214-768-3417. CRRSAA / HEERF II Student Grant Reporting (Final Report) On April 15, 2020 the University signed and submitted the Certification and Agreement to provide emergency grants to students through the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF I) as authorized by section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act. The terms of the initial HEERF I agreement were subsequently approved and extended to cover the HEERF II allocation as authorized by the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, (CRRSAA). The following information fulfills the quarterly reporting requirement for the student portion of the HEERF II allocation. Southern Methodist University acknowledges and accepts the terms of the Certification and Agreement signed and submitted on April 15, 2020. SMU received a total HEERF II allocation of $6,580,843 from the U.S. Department of Education. Based on the terms of the agreement, SMU was required to distribute no less than $2,299,130 as emergency student grants. On March 29, 2021, the University offered $2,595,000 in emergency grants to 1824 eligible students. These grants were funded from the following sources. $2,300,000 in HEERF II student allocation to 1,614 students. $295,000 in institutional funding to 210 students. As of April 27, 2021, all 1614 students have accepted the HEERF II emergency grant funds. Following the guidance from the U.S. Department of Education, the HEERF II student allocation were distributed to students with the greatest demonstrated financial need and potential for financial hardship due to the ongoing pandemic. Eligible students met the following criteria: Enrolled as of March 29, 2021 for the Spring 2021 term. Must have completed and submitted the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Received Title IV grants or Federal/State loans for the spring 2021 term. Undergraduate students must have need-based aid disbursed to their student account for the Spring 2021 term as of March 29, 2021, or has earnings during the Spring 2021 term from a Federal or State work study program. Graduate and professional students must have net proceeds from a Federal or State student loan program disbursed to the student account for the Spring 2021 term. The amount awarded is based on the FAFSA Expected Family Contribution (EFC). Eligible students with an official EFC up to $5,711 received $1,500. Eligible students with an official EFC of $5,712 up to $10,000 received $1,000. On March 29, 2021 notification was sent to the eligible students with information on how the funds would be distributed along with step-by-step instructions to obtain the funds. The University created a website answering questions regarding the distribution of HEERF II funds. Copies of the communications sent to eligible students will be provided upon request. Download: HEERF II Reporting Institutional Portion HEERF Reporting HEERF I - Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES) HEERF II - Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021 (CRRSAA) HEERF III - American Rescue Plan (ARP) of 2021 HEERF Frequently Asked Questions Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share