Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Harvey and Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center Black History Month Founded as Negro History (and literature) Week in 1926 by Dr. Carter G. Woodson, Black History Month began as a way to highlight Black progress following the Civil War and reconstruction. Currently, this month is a catalyst to celebrate and acknowledge the achievements and struggles of African Americans and members of the African Diaspora. We aim to promote the diversity and complexities of Black identity through multiple lenses and experiences. Call My Name Program: Hear Our Voices February 1 at 6:00 p.m. on Zoom: https://bit.ly/CMNHOV22 Join us for an interactive discussion with descendants and alumni about the Black experience at Clemson University. The discussion will be led by Call My Name Project Faculty Director, Dr. Rhondda Thomas. Movie Screening: RESPECT February 3 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the McKissick Theater RESPECT is a biographical musical drama based on the life and legacy of Aretha Franklin. From a child singing in her father’s church choir to international stardom, RESPECT tells the story of the Queen of Soul as she finds her voice. Soul food Sunday February 6 from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. at the Reeves Recruiting Lounge Soul Food Sunday is an annual Black History Month event that brings the Clemson community together through food, music, and the celebration of Black culture. Originating in the Southern United States, soul food is ethnic cuisine traditionally prepared and eaten by African Americans. The term was coined in the 1960s during a time of strong Black cultural identity and expression. From cornbread and yams, to chicken and greens, Soul Food Sunday is sure to give you a “taste” of Black history. Book Talk: The African American Experience at Two South Carolina Universities February 11 from 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Cooper Library, Learning Commons West The authors/editors of Invisible No More: The African American Experience at the University of South Carolina and Call My Name Clemson: Documenting the Black Experience in an American University Community will share the stage to talk about their respective books, which explore the history of the Black experience at University of South Carolina and Clemson University, respectively. Keynote Speaker: Alex Tha Great February 15 at 7 p.m. on Zoom: https://bit.ly/BHMKeynote22, Watt Center Auditorium Alex Tha Great (Given Real Encouragement Amongst Turmoil) is a spoken word artist, speaker, playwright, and activist. She is the runner up for the 2018 National Civil Rights Museum Drop the Mic Poetry Slam and a 2017 Women of the World Poetry Slam finalist. A graduate of the University of California, Irvine with a B.A. in African American Studies and Claremont Graduate University with a M.A. in Cultural Studies, she has performed since 2011 in various venues, colleges, and stages across the country. She has shared the stage with actress Irma P. Hall, Reverend Jesse Jackson, actor Darrin Henson and R&B singer Noel Gourdin. Alex lives by the motto: Whatever you do, let it be bold! Ancestry Workshop: Empowered to be….Discovered! February 16 from 3-6 p.m. in the Brown Room at the Library & on Zoom: https://clemson.libcal.com/event/8881538 Discover your ancestors! This drop-in workshop is designed for individuals of African American descent who are interested in exploring their ancestry. Clemson librarians will be on hand to offer one-on-one assistance for students, faculty, and staff to research their ancestors. In-person attendees are encouraged to bring their own laptops. We look forward to helping you navigate and make discoveries in Ancestry! The LibCal event is available at: https://clemson.libcal.com/event/8881538 Call My Name: Trivia Night February 17 from 7 p.m, to 9 p.m. at the Barnes Center Join us for Trivia Night! Attendees will create their own teams and answer trivia questions on the Call My Name book and project. Game Night: Sweets & Spades February 18 from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. in the Hendrix Student Center, Ballrooms A & B Let the games begin! Grab your friends and join us for a spades tournament. Spades is a popular card game played in the Black community. Call My Name Tours February 20 at 11 a.m., Please Sign Up: https://bit.ly/BHMCMN2022 The Call My Name tour aims to highlight and honor the legacy of seven generations of African Americans in Clemson University history through a 90 minute guided tour of campus. Call My Name is an initiative created and led by Faculty Director and Calhoun Lemon Professor of Literature, Dr. Rhondda Thomas. Registration is required. Woodland Cemetery Tours February 20 from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. (hourly) at the Woodland Cemetery Join us for a tour of the African American burial ground at Woodland Cemetery. This is part of an ongoing project by Clemson University to locate the unmarked African American graves in Woodland Cemetery and engage the local community in giving voice to those who are buried to protect and memorialize them. For the Culture: Open Mic Night | Special Guest: Ebony Stewart February 22 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Zoom: https://bit.ly/BHMOpenMicNight Watt Center Auditorium For the Culture: Open Mic Night is an evening of culture-filled spoken word, poetry, song, dance, music, and more! Come show off your black girl magic, black boy joy, or appreciation for black culture through sharing your art. Join us for an evening of fun and beautiful artistry, including a special performance from spoken word artist and our event MC, Ebony Stewart! The event will be held in the Watt Center on Tuesday, February 22, 2022 starting at 6 pm. You can also join via Zoom! All performance submissions are due by Saturday, February 12, 2022, at 11:59 pm. If you have any questions, please get in touch with Iman Johnson at imanj@clemson.edu. Performance submissions - https://forms.gle/TzLqAA3FXjHMyFA57 Black Caucus Meeting February 23 at 6:30 p.m. in Brackett 120 | Zoom: https://bit.ly/BlackCaucus22 The purpose of the Black Caucus Meeting is to enhance community among Black students and organizations at Clemson University, provide information regarding progress made towards strengthening sense of belonging for Black students at Clemson, and to gather feedback from Black students about current experiences on campus. Guest Speaker: Dr. Millicent Brown February 24 at 5 p.m. on Zoom: https://bit.ly/PEER2022 Dr. Brown is a Social Justice and Public History Consultant. She was one the first Black children to integrate South Carolina schools and works to correct many of the misconceptions surrounding school desegregation. She also provides a thoughtful platform for analysis on the effects of the 1954 Brown decision, while involving present day students and faculty in appreciating connections between the school desegregation process and current crisis in Black education. Clemson Libraries - Black History Month TriviaFebruary 25 from 1-1:30 p.m. on Zoom: bit.ly/BLKHMTRIVIA Join the Clemson University Libraries for a South Carolina Black History Month trivia session. The trivia winner will receive a University Libraries tote bag and a copy of Call My Name Clemson by Dr. Rhondda Thomas. Social Media Be sure to follow the Gantt Multicultural Center on social media to learn more about upcoming Black History Month events! @CuGantt on Instagram, Facebook, & Twitter. Partners Co-sponsored and coordinated by the Harvey & Lucinda Gantt Multicultural Center, Call My Name Project, Clemson Black Student Union (CBSU), CONNECTIONS LLC, Center for Student Leadership & Engagement (CSLE), Clemson Athletics, National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC), Clemson Libraries, Council on Diversity Affairs (CODA), Black Improvement Association, Programs for Educational Enrichment & Retention (PEER), and Thank Goodness It’s Thursday (TGIT). Accessibility Needs The Gantt Multicultural Center strives to host inclusive, accessible events that enable all individuals, including folks with disabilities, to engage fully. If you need accommodations (such as an ASL interpreter, mobility assistance, etc.), please contact Pauline De Tholozany (pdethol@clemson.edu) at least 1 week before the event you would like to attend. Home About The Gantts Dialogue Initiatives Intercultural Development Inventory International Festival LGBTQ Programs MLK Celebration Multicultural Programs Black History Month Hispanic and Latinx Heritage Month Programs and Events Student Outreach and Support Women's Celebration Month Presentations and Outreach Contact Us Related Links Diversity and Inclusion Office of Inclusion and Equity Global Engagement Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram