Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni School of Architecture About Forward Arrow About Director's Message Program Directors Faculty and Staff Accreditation and Licensure Clemson Architectural Foundation Back Arrow Back Programs Forward Arrow Programs Architecture Forward Arrow Architecture Bachelor of Arts in Architecture Master of Architecture Architecture + Health Master of Science in Advanced Architectural Manufacturing Minor in Architecture Back Arrow Back Landscape Architecture Forward Arrow Landscape Architecture Bachelor of Landscape Architecture Master of Landscape Architecture Back Arrow Back Master of Science in Historic Preservation Master of Resilient Urban Design Planning, Design and the Built Environment Ph.D. Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Back Arrow Back Fluid Campus Forward Arrow Fluid Campus Lee Hall - Clemson Clemson Design Center Charleston Charles E. Daniel Center for Building Research and Urban Studies - Barcelona Architecture Center Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Clubs and Organizations Faculty Resources Student Resources Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close School of Architecture Fluid Campus About show submenu for About Director's Message Program Directors Faculty and Staff Accreditation and Licensure Clemson Architectural Foundation Programs show submenu for Programs Architecture show submenu for Architecture Bachelor of Arts in Architecture Master of Architecture Architecture + Health Master of Science in Advanced Architectural Manufacturing Minor in Architecture Landscape Architecture show submenu for Landscape Architecture Bachelor of Landscape Architecture Master of Landscape Architecture Master of Science in Historic Preservation Master of Resilient Urban Design Planning, Design and the Built Environment Ph.D. Research Fluid Campus show submenu for Fluid Campus Lee Hall - Clemson Clemson Design Center Charleston Charles E. Daniel Center for Building Research and Urban Studies - Barcelona Architecture Center Resources show submenu for Resources Clubs and Organizations Faculty Resources Student Resources Clemson Home College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities Academics School of Architecture Current: Fluid Campus Worldwide Opportunities In today’s global economy nothing can replace the experience of graduates who have learned to view the world from a different perspective. Clemson University was one of the first architecture programs in the country to establish a satellite center for study in Europe. Since that program was established in 1972, our program has grown into a "Fluid Campus" that provides students with opportunities to study and gain a greater understanding of architecture in urban cultures. The Fluid Campus refers to the geographically-distributed learning opportunities; the integration of these opportunities within our degree-earning graduate and undergraduate curricula; and the fluidity of communication and work practices in our increasingly digital and global interconnected world. Anchored by Lee Hall and our Clemson campus, each center offers unique courses, experiences, and study opportunities. Each center is also unique in its organization: Lee Hall Complex, the School of Architecture's home on Clemson's main campus, is a combination of three carefully-planned buildings. The newest, Lee III, is an LEED Gold, zero-energy-ready facility and is one of the most energy-efficient classroom buildings in the nation. With open, flexible classroom spaces and clean, functional design, Lee creates an atmosphere to inspire innovation. The Clemson Architecture Center in Barcelona (CAC.B), Spain, is part of a partnership in which constant Clemson students share a studio with students from Texas A&M University and Roger Williams University and live in a nearby student housing university residence hall. The Clemson Architecture Center in Charleston (CAC.C) now resides in the historic Cigar Factory building. Here, the disciplines of Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Historic Preservation and Resilient Urban Design come together under one roof, all part of with three other related architecture programs in the overarching Clemson Design Center in Charleston. The Clemson Architecture Center in Genoa (CAC.G) operates in the Charles E. Daniel Center (the "Villa") in Genoa, Italy. which This setting provides a relatively self-contained experience, in which students work and live in the Villa. Placement Placement into Fluid Campus programs is based on factors such as space availability, student via visa availability, special circumstances, and grade point ratio. Spring semester placement is generally more competitive due to a higher number of applications. Capacity varies by location and is further restricted by semester, major, and student status. Programs that do not reach full capacity may be opened to students from other U.S. universities. Maximum capacity and typical distribution are as follows: Spring CAC.B - 20 student maximum Spring CAC.C - 44 students maximum Spring CAC.G - 20 student maximum Fall CAC.B - 20 student maximum Fall CAC.C - 44 students maximum Fall CAC.G - 20 student maximum Student Visas Processing of student visas is coordinated by the College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities Office of Global Engagement. However, students are responsible for providing all required information and materials by the announced deadline. Visa requirements and processes for international students can differ widely from those for U.S. citizens. Depending on nationality and location of study, there can be instances in which obtaining a student via my visa may prove especially difficult and/or costly or may not be possible. Undergraduate Architecture Student Schedule For undergrad students of Architecture and Landscape Architecture, the semesters for off-campus study are spring of 3rd Year or fall of 4th Year. B.A. in Arch. and BLA Student Application and Placement Calendar:: 1st Year/Freshman Fall Semester B.A. and BLA students introduced to off-campus study programs 2nd Year 2nd Year/Sophomore Spring Semester B.A. students apply for off-campus study placement. 3rd Year/Junior Spring Semester Off-Campus Study option. 4th Year/Senior Fall Semester Off-Campus Study option. Graduate Architecture Student Schedule For Master of Architecture (M.ARCH) and Master of Landscape Architecture (MLA) students, the semesters for off-campus study are Semesters 4 and 5 of the overall six-semester Master of Architecture Plans of Study. Applications are taken one year ahead of the off-campus study calendar year. In other words, applications are taken in the Spring for off-campus study in the Spring and Fall of the next following calendar year. This means that if you are an M. Arch. I am a student or MLA student in Semester 2 (Spring), you will apply for off-campus study for Semesters 4 and 5 (Spring and Fall semester of the following year). If you are an incoming M. Arch. II student, you will indicate your preferences on your online graduate school application and later submit a full study-abroad application after accepting our offer of admission. New M. Arch. II students are also requesting placement for Semesters 4 and 5 (your first Spring and second Fall semesters). YEAR 1 Semester 1 Fall M.Arch I and MLA students begin their respective studies Semester 2 Spring M. Arch. I and MLA students apply for Spring Semester 4 and Fall Semester 5 off-campus study. New M. Arch. II students request off-campus study placement at the time of application and confirm off-campus study choice(s) in August. YEAR 2 Semester 3 Fall M. Arch. II students begin studies. Semester 4 Spring Off-Campus Study Options A+CB Charleston semester. YEAR 3 Semester 5 Fall Off-Campus Study Options A+CB Charleston semester. Semester 6 Spring All students in Clemson to complete their graduate studies. Please note that Fall (Semester 5) placement in Charleston may be limited for graduate students not in the A+CB program. More Information For more information about each of the fluid campus programs in the School of Architecture, please visit the Clemson Architecture Center Fluid Campus page. Here, you will find fuller descriptions of each of these remarkable cities, plus our unique study programs and their histories. There are additional links to program brochures, which include more detailed information about program faculty, coursework, housing, program costs, applications and key dates. Clemson, SC Charleston, SC Genoa, Italy Barcelona, Spain School of Architecture Copyright © Clemson University School of Architecture | Lee Hall 3-130, Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3938 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson