Skip to main content Cornell University College of Human Ecology Home Explore the College of Human Ecology Explore Bar: Main College of Human Ecology Home Give to the College of Human Ecology Departments Center for Integrative Developmental Science Division of Nutritional Sciences Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Psychology (formerly Human Development) Centers & Institutes Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Center for Integrative Developmental Science Cornell Institute for Research on Children Cornell Institute for Women in Science Cornell MRI Facility Cornell Population Center Human Neuroscience Institute Institute for Healthy Futures Institute on Health Economics, Health Behaviors and Disparities Directory Admissions Give to the College Keyword Search Search Keywords Search Full Menu Directory Admissions Give to the College Departments: Slideout About the Department Explore About the Department Back to previous menu News Spotlights Directory Facilities Explore Facilities Back to previous menu Cornell Fashion + Textile Collection Natural Dye Garden For Employers Contact Us Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu New Undergraduate Student Information Undergraduate Study Explore Undergraduate Study Back to previous menu Design and Environmental Analysis Fashion Design & Management Fiber Science New Undergraduate Student Information Honors Programs Internships Undergraduate Minors Graduate Study Explore Graduate Study Back to previous menu MPS in Human Ecology - FSAD Apparel Design Graduate Programs M.A. in Design Fiber Science Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Human Behavior and Design M.S. in Human Environment Relations Graduate Field Faculty Summer & Winter Courses Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Faculty Research Graduate Seminars Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Activities Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Events & Exhibits Faculty Engagement Engaged Classroom Resources for Youth Educators Alumni ↑ Explore Human Ecology Departments and Centers Departments Center for Integrative Developmental Science Division of Nutritional Sciences Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Explore Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Back to previous menu About the Department Explore About the Department Back to previous menu News Spotlights Directory Facilities Explore Facilities Back to previous menu Cornell Fashion + Textile Collection Natural Dye Garden For Employers Contact Us Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu New Undergraduate Student Information Undergraduate Study Explore Undergraduate Study Back to previous menu Design and Environmental Analysis Fashion Design & Management Fiber Science New Undergraduate Student Information Honors Programs Internships Undergraduate Minors Graduate Study Summer & Winter Courses Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Faculty Research Graduate Seminars Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Activities Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Events & Exhibits Faculty Engagement Engaged Classroom Resources for Youth Educators Alumni Psychology (formerly Human Development) Centers & Institutes Bronfenbrenner Center for Translational Research Center for Integrative Developmental Science People Longitudinal Methods Workshop Research Dissertation Research Awards Workshops Cornell Institute for Research on Children Cornell Institute for Women in Science Cornell MRI Facility Cornell Population Center Human Neuroscience Institute Institute for Healthy Futures Institute on Health Economics, Health Behaviors and Disparities Collapse Department Menu Departments: Header Menu, 2nd Tier About the Department Explore About the Department Back to previous menu News Spotlights Directory Facilities For Employers Contact Us Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu New Undergraduate Student Information Undergraduate Study Graduate Study Summer & Winter Courses Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Faculty Research Graduate Seminars Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Activities Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Events & Exhibits Faculty Engagement Engaged Classroom Resources for Youth Educators Alumni Undergraduate Minors Explore This Section Undergraduate Minors About the Department Explore About the Department Back to previous menu News Spotlights Directory Facilities Explore Facilities Back to previous menu Cornell Fashion + Textile Collection Natural Dye Garden For Employers Contact Us Academics Explore Academics Back to previous menu New Undergraduate Student Information Undergraduate Study Explore Undergraduate Study Back to previous menu Design and Environmental Analysis Fashion Design & Management Fiber Science New Undergraduate Student Information Honors Programs Internships Undergraduate Minors Graduate Study Explore Graduate Study Back to previous menu MPS in Human Ecology - FSAD Apparel Design Graduate Programs M.A. in Design Fiber Science Graduate Programs Ph.D. in Human Behavior and Design M.S. in Human Environment Relations Graduate Field Faculty Summer & Winter Courses Research Explore Research Back to previous menu Faculty Research Graduate Seminars Student Life Explore Student Life Back to previous menu Student Activities Public Engagement Explore Public Engagement Back to previous menu Events & Exhibits Faculty Engagement Engaged Classroom Resources for Youth Educators Alumni Breadcrumb Cornell College of Human Ecology Human Centered Design (formerly D+EA and FSAD) Academics Undergraduate Study The Department of Human Centered Design offers a variety of minors to interested students. Design and Environmental Analysis Minor ELIGIBILITY To be considered for the Minor in D+EA, students must not be a D+EA major. REQUIREMENTS Earning a D+EA minor requires a minimum of 15 credits within D+EA, including three required core courses (DEA1101, DEA1110 or DEA1200, and DEA1500) and two upper level DEA thematic courses. See Application to Graduate with a Minor in D+EA for detailed course requirements and a list of eligible electives. Only D+EA courses may be used to satisfy the requirements of the minor. Courses must be completed as letter grade with a grade of B- or better. Courses offered only as S/U are accepted but must not exceed a total of 3 credits toward the credit requirement for the minor. GETTING STARTED Start by taking the 3 core courses required for the D+EA Minor. Submit the Intention to Minor in D+EA form after successfully completing the 3 core courses requirement. To receive consideration or priority in D+EA course enrollment, a completed Intention to Minor in D+EA form must have been submitted prior to the semester in which enrollment is desired. Formally declaring intent to minor in D+EA does not guarantee enrollment in D+EA courses. The minor is self-guided. Some courses require prerequisites so careful planning by the student is warranted. TRANSFER CREDITS Course credits from institutions other than Cornell or from academic units at Cornell other than D+EA cannot be counted towards the minor in Design + Environmental Analysis. COMPLETING THE MINOR IN D+EA During the semester in which the student plans to graduate, s/he must submit a completed Application to Graduate with a Minor in D+EA to DEA's Academic Programs Coordinator (deaundergrad@cornell.edu). The current version of requirements for a Minor in D+EA is used to evaluate the completion of the minor. If the Intention to Minor form has been submitted, the student has the option to make a request to use the earlier version of requirements in-effect at the time the Intention to Minor form was submitted to D+EA. After verification by D+EA that all requirements for the minor have been completed, the student’s college registrar will be notified and the final transcript will indicate that a Minor in D+EA was earned. Design Innovation & Strategy Minor The Department of Human Centered Design offers a minor in Design Innovation & Strategy. This minor provides students with an understanding of design thinking and practice through the production of designed artifacts. The Design Innovation & Strategy minor may be of particular interest to students from Information Science, Computer Science, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, and other Engineering departments who are seeking design studies that compliment and may partly overlap with their technical understanding. The Design Innovation & Strategy minor is meant to help prepare students to design more holistically in response to today’s complex challenges and opportunities. ELIGIBILITY To be considered for the Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy, students must not be a D+EA major. REQUIREMENTS Earning a minor in Design Innovation & Strategy requires a minimum of 17 credits within D+EA. See Application to Graduate with a Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy for detailed course requirements and a list of eligible electives. Only D+EA courses may be used to satisfy the requirements of the minor. Courses must be completed as letter grade with a grade of B- or better. Courses offered only as S/U are accepted but must not exceed a total of 3 credits toward the credit requirement for the minor. GETTING STARTED Start by taking the two core courses required for the Design Innovation & Strategy Minor. Submit the Intention to Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy form after successfully completing the two core courses requirement. To receive consideration or priority in D+EA course enrollment, a completed Intention to Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy form must have been submitted prior to the semester in which enrollment is desired. Formally declaring intent to minor in Design Innovation & Strategy does not guarantee enrollment in D+EA courses. The minor is self-guided. Some courses require prerequisites so careful planning by the student is warranted. TRANSFER CREDITS Course credits from institutions other than Cornell or from academic units at Cornell other than D+EA cannot be counted towards the minor in Design Innovation & Strategy. COMPLETING THE MINOR IN DESIGN Innovation & STRATEGY During the semester in which the student plans to graduate, s/he must submit a completed Application to Graduate with a Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy to D+EA's Academic Programs Coordinator (deaundergrad@cornell.edu). The current version of requirements for a Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy is used to evaluate the completion of the minor. If the Intention to Minor form has been submitted, the student has the option to make a request to use the earlier version of requirements in-effect at the time the Intention to Minor form was submitted to D+EA. After verification by D+EA that all requirements for the minor have been completed, the student’s college registrar will be notified and the final transcript will indicate that a Minor in Design Innovation & Strategy was earned. CONTACT INFORMATION Contact Dr. So-Yeon Yoon (sy492@cornell.edu), D+EA Director of Undergraduate Studies or D+EA's Academic Programs Coordinator (deaundergrad@cornell.edu) in 1411 MVR for questions. Fashion Studies Minor The Department of Human Centered Design (HCD) offers a Fashion Studies Minor to interested students. The Minor requires a minimum of 15-17 credit hours of work, all of which must be within FSAD. Course Requirements In order to earn a minor in Fashion Studies, a student must complete the following requirements: FSAD 1250 Fashion, Art & Design thinking (3 credits) One additional FSAD course at the 1000 level (3-4 credits) Two FSAD courses at the 2000 or 3000 level (6-8 credits) One FSAD course at the 4000 or 6000 level 3-4 credits) TOTAL Credits Required: [Minimum 15 credits] Admission Requirements 1) Submit the Intent to Minor form any time after you have completed at least one of the courses required for the minor. Keep a copy of the form for reference. Note that to receive any consideration or priority for course enrollment, a form must have been submitted prior to the semester in which enrollment is desired. Formally declaring intent to minor in Fashion Studies does not guarantee that a student will be able to take an offered FSAD course. 2) Students who complete the Intent to Minor in Fashion Studies form will be given preference for admission to FSAD courses once students in the major are accommodated, with the stipulation that studio and lab courses are capped. 3) Plan a course of study to complete minor requirements. It is the student’s responsibility to keep track of courses required and completed toward the minor; students will not be assigned an FSAD advisor. Only Fiber Science & Apparel Design courses may be used to satisfy the requirement of the minor. 4) Students must earn a grade of B- or better in courses required by the minor. 5) During the semester in which you are planning to graduate, submit an Application to Graduate with a Minor in Fashion Studies form, include an unofficial copy of your transcript by March 15th to FSAD Undergraduate Coordinator in T57 HEB or fsad-dus@cornell.edu. 6) After it has been verified that you have completed all of the requirements for the minor, your college registrar will be notified, and your final transcript will indicate that you are earned a minor in Fashion Studies. Questions should be addressed to the Undergraduate Program Coordinator at fsad-dus@cornell.edu. Fiber Science Minor The Department of Human Centered Design (HCD) offers a Fiber Science Minor to interested students. The Minor requires a minimum of 15-17 credit hours of work, all of which must be within FSAD. Course Requirements In order to earn a minor in Fiber Science, a student must complete the following requirements: FSAD 1350 Fibers, Fabrics and Finishes [3] FSAD 1360 Fiber and Yarn Analysis Laboratory [1] FSAD 3350 Fiber Science [3] FSAD 4360 Fiber Chemistry [3] Additional Coursework: Two FSAD Fiber Science courses at the 4000 or 6000 level [6] TOTAL Credits Required: [Minimum 16 credits] Admission Requirements Submit the Intent to Minor form any time after you have completed at least one of the courses required for the minor. Keep a copy of the form for reference. Note that to receive any consideration or priority for course enrollment, a form must have been submitted prior to the semester in which enrollment is desired. Formally declaring intent to minor in Fiber Science does not guarantee that a student will be able to take an offered FSAD course. Students who complete the Intent to Minor in Fiber Science form will be given preference for admission to FSAD courses once students in the major are accommodated, with the stipulation that studio and lab courses are capped. Plan a course of study to complete minor requirements. It is the student’s responsibility to keep track of courses required and completed toward the minor; students will not be assigned an FSAD advisor. Only Fiber Science & Apparel Design courses may be used to satisfy the requirement of the minor. Students must earn a grade of B- or better in courses required by the minor. During the semester in which you are planning to graduate, submit an Application to Graduate with a Minor in Fiber Science form, include an unofficial copy of your transcript by March 15th to FSAD Undergraduate Coordinator in T57 HEB or fsad-dus@cornell.edu. After it has been verified that you have completed all of the requirements for the minor, your college registrar will be notified, and your final transcript will indicate that you are earned a minor in Fiber Science. Questions should be addressed to the FSAD Undergraduate Coordinator or the Director of Undergraduate Studies at fsad-dus@cornell.edu. Healthy Futures Minor The Cornell Institute for Healthy Futures and the Department of Design + Environmental Analysis offers a minor in Healthy Futures open to all undergraduate students. Most of today’s healthcare spending is on clinical approaches for diagnosing and treating diseases. However, behavioral, social and environmental factors play a large role in determining overall health. Health and wellness professionals of the future must engage in an interdisciplinary effort to successfully compete and contribute to positive change. This minor provides a high caliber, transdisciplinary education in the fields of health, hospitality, and design. This innovative trans-disciplinary focus — the first of its kind — has the potential to change industry practices and professional attitudes by breaking down the silos that often undermine creative solutions. This minor may be of particular interest to students enrolled in health, wellness, policy, and hospitality related majors, or students interested in applying their education to problem-solving in the population health and wellness space. ELIGIBILITY Open to all undergraduate students, including D+EA majors. REQUIREMENTS Earning the minor in Healthy Futures requires a minimum of 17 credits. The minor consists of students taking “DEA/HADM 3055 - Health, Hospitality & Design Industry Seminar” (1 credit-hour), 9-credit hours of specific required courses distributed across the three disciplines of design, healthcare administration, and hospitality, 6-credit hour of elective courses, and participating in an internship (1 credit-hour DEA 4020 Supervised Fieldwork). See Application to Graduate with a Minor in Healthy Futures for detailed course requirements and a list of eligible electives. Courses must be completed as letter grade with a grade of B- or better. GETTING STARTED Completing the Hospitality, Health, and Design Industry Seminar (DEA/HADM 3055) is required to declare Intent to minor in Healthy Futures. Submit the Intention to Minor in Healthy Futures form. Students are responsible for planning their minor program of study in conjunction with the advisor in their major. Due to the imperative that students take core courses outside their discipline and the fact that students come from multiple departments, the requirements change across majors. Thus, careful planning by the student is warranted. TRANSFER CREDITS Course credits from institutions other than Cornell cannot be counted towards the minor in Healthy Futures. COMPLETING THE MINOR IN HEALTHY FUTURES During the semester in which the student plans to graduate, s/he must submit a completed Application to Graduate with a Minor in Healthy Futures. The completed form should be submitted via the online form. After verification by D+EA that all requirements for the minor have been completed, the student’s college registrar will be notified and the final transcript will indicate that a Minor in Healthy Futures was earned. CONTACT INFORMATION Contact CIHF’s Program Assistant, Allison DeDominick (and36@cornell.edu) in 3250 MVR for questions. Minors FAQ Apply Inquire Visit T57, Human Ecology Building, Cornell University, 37 Forest Home Dr., Ithaca, NY 14853 Contact HCD (607) 255-2144 Directions Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' Land Acknowledgment for the Ithaca Campus Cornell University is located on the traditional homelands of the Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' (the Cayuga Nation). The Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' are members of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, an alliance of six sovereign Nations with a historic and contemporary presence on this land. The Confederacy precedes the establishment of Cornell University, New York state, and the United States of America. We acknowledge the painful history of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' dispossession, and honor the ongoing connection of Gayogo̱hó꞉nǫ' people, past and present, to these lands and waters. Follow HCD on our Instagram account Request information HCD contacts Web Accessibility Assistance University Privacy Notice © 2022 College of Human Ecology