Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Risk & Insurance Third Party Event Insurance Information Third Party Event Insurance Information The Office of Risk Management participates in SMU's event risk review processes. We also review many of the contracts associated with campus events. While each event is unique, there are several key risk management concerns that always must be addressed. Insurance SMU requires evidence of insurance for all third party vendors and contractors that want to operate in a special event on campus. The third-party is responsible for obtaining evidence of insurance (i.e. a Certificate of Insurance) and presenting it to the Office of Risk Management at least (3) days prior to the event taking place. All special events are not organized in the same way, nor do they carry the same risks; this can lead to confusion about who should insure what. As a rule of thumb, if a third party is providing goods or services, or if a contract or purchase order is needed, that third party likely needs to demonstrate that they have insurance to cover their business. If there is a middleman involved, such as a promoter, they may also be required to carry insurance. Risk Management should be consulted early in the process of event organization to clarify any insurance-related questions, particularly if a unique third party is utilized (such as an alligator handler). TULIP SMU requires evidence of insurance for all third-party vendors and contractors that want to operate an event on campus. The third-party is responsible for obtaining evidence of insurance (i.e. a Certificate of Insurance) and presenting it to the Office of Risk Management at least (3) days prior to the event taking place. If the third-party vendor does not maintain insurance regularly, they can procure a Tenant User Liability Insurance Program (TULIP) to meet SMU's insurance requirements. A TULIP policy may be purchased for short-term, and even single-day events. Proof of insurance is sent directly to ORM once purchased. Below are step-by-step instructions to purchase this insurance. In order for the university to recognize the event, the following list of insurance policy conditions must be met on the Certificate of Insurance: Go to the following web address: https://tulip.ajgrms.com/ Click on the “Quick Quote” tab at the top of the page, or the “Get a Quote” link on the side of the page. Select the location of the event (as you select items, additional drop-down menus will appear): Texas or New Mexico Institution: Southern Methodist University Venue: SMU location (ex: SMU-in-Plano, SMU-in-Taos, McFarlin Auditorium, etc.) Select the date you need the coverage for (the date(s) of your event) and input the number of people you expect to be in attendance. Select the type of the event for which you are utilizing SMU space. If you are serving alcohol or have vendors or performers as part of this meeting, you may need additional coverage. Review quote. ORM may review this upon request. Purchase insurance. Evidence of insurance will be sent directly to ORM upon purchase. Note: All special events are not organized in the same way, nor do they carry the same exposure. This can lead to confusion about who needs to insure what. As a rule of thumb, whenever the group is hiring outside people for an event, signing contracts, and charging for the event, it will likely need liability insurance to cover the event. Many outside groups carry their own insurance. Generally, if another party (i.e., a promoter) is responsible for the contracts and promotions, it carries its own liability limits. But because these distinctions can be confusing, liability coverage should be clarified in the early planning stages of the event. (Risk Management can advise you on this.) Insurance Requirements Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share