Skip to main content College of Sciences Department of Chemistry Menu Close About News The Department by the Numbers 2020-2021 Alumni Contact Us Giving Visit Your Feedback Matters Diversity, Equity and Inclusion About the Chemistry DEI Committee Chemistry DEI Committee Leadership Chemistry DEI Committee News and Events DEI List of Resources Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Resources Prospective Students Advising Chemistry Placement Exam Chemistry Honors Program MentorUP – Mentoring Undergraduates Program Research Opportunities Student Groups Student Spotlight Graduate 2022 Recruitment Weekend Programs Support Student Life/CGSA Graduate Student Handbook Apply Now Research Research Areas Facilities and Research Centers Safety Medicinal Chemistry Artwork People Academic Advisors Adjunct Faculty Associate Faculty Current Faculty Graduate Students Leadership Postdoctoral Researchers Retired and Emeriti Faculty Staff In Memoriam Events Past Events Faculty Meetings DEI Events Graduate Student Defense Outreach Seminar Program Subscribe to Chemistry Calendars Give Now About About News The Department by the Numbers 2020-2021 Alumni Contact Us Giving Visit Your Feedback Matters Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion About the Chemistry DEI Committee Chemistry DEI Committee Leadership Chemistry DEI Committee News and Events DEI List of Resources Undergraduate Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Resources Prospective Students Advising Chemistry Placement Exam Chemistry Honors Program MentorUP – Mentoring Undergraduates Program Research Opportunities Student Groups Student Spotlight Graduate Graduate 2022 Recruitment Weekend Programs Support Student Life/CGSA Graduate Student Handbook Apply Now Research Research Research Areas Facilities and Research Centers Safety Medicinal Chemistry Artwork People People Academic Advisors Adjunct Faculty Associate Faculty Current Faculty Graduate Students Leadership Postdoctoral Researchers Retired and Emeriti Faculty Staff In Memoriam Events Events Past Events Faculty Meetings DEI Events Graduate Student Defense Outreach Seminar Program Subscribe to Chemistry Calendars Give Now Chemistry Matters In our department, award-winning teachers and researchers prepare the next generation of chemists and work alongside them to solve some of the world’s most pressing problems. Support the Department Your support is crucial to help us shape the next generation of chemists. Amount$ news More News Lucian Lucia, Selected Most Supportive Faculty Dr. Lucian Lucia was recognized with the Most Supportive Faculty/Staff Member Award. CGSA wins 2022 Outstanding Student Organization Award CGSA was selected to receive the 2022 Chancellor’s Creating Community Award in the category of Outstanding Student Organization. Spring 2022 Graduation Congratulations to our students who graduated in Spring 2022. We wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors! Meet Lizzie Dunsmore, Spring 2022 Graduate Lizzie was recognized by the Division of Academic and Student Affairs for her involvement and leadership on campus, especially in DASA programs. Meet the Graduates The Division of Academic and Student Affairs recognizes some standout spring 2022 graduates who have made their mark on the university through their involvement and leadership on campus, especially in DASA programs. NC State Announces 2021-22 Goodnight Early Career Innovators￼ NC State announced its 2021-22 class of Goodnight Early Career Innovators today. This program recognizes and rewards promising NC State early-career faculty whose scholarship is in STEM or STEM education. The 25 faculty selected will receive $22,000 for each of the next three years to support their scholarship and research endeavors. Who We Are Undergraduate Our two undergraduate programs prepare graduates for successful careers in industry or academia. Learn more Graduate Graduate students in our department have access to an excellent education with extraordinary opportunities. Explore our program About Us Our department is a place where the best and brightest minds come together to learn, building the foundation for bright futures. Get to know us Research That Matters In our Department, everyone from faculty to undergraduates works together on research projects that tackle the world’s biggest challenges. Learn more about our research areas and opportunities. Learn more Erin Baker: Examining How Environmental Contaminants Affect Health Erin Baker, an associate professor of chemistry, uses advanced instrumentation to look for environmental contaminants in substances and to find biomarkers that can signal disease. Watch the Video Play Video Share your News Just fill out the form and we will do the rest. Department of Chemistry Home Dabney Hall, Room 208 Campus Box 8204 2620 Yarbrough Dr. NC State University Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2355 Main Campus Map Apply Graduate Student Handbook Contact Us News Employment Events Giving Faculty, Student and Staff Resources MyPack Portal Accessibility Your Feedback Matters Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.