COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Arts Leadership and Management, Master's Master'sArts Leadership and Management All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State’s Master of Arts in Arts Leadership and Management is a business and career-focused program for employment, or advancement, in arts executive positions. Students advance their knowledge in two areas: arts leadership and arts management. The program is completed entirely online. Learn how Arts Leadership and Management is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For admission into the Master of Arts in Arts Leadership and Management program, you must: Have a minimum 3.0 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) on all previously completed undergraduate and graduate coursework. Be admitted to the WSU Graduate School International graduate students must meet the Graduate School requirements as outlined in the admissions section of the Graduate catalog. For additional details, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum To complete the Master of Arts in Arts Leadership and Management degree, you’ll take 30 credit hours, including: 18 credit hours of core coursework covering entrepreneurial thinking, arts marketing and management, leadership and more. Six credit hours of electives. Six credit hours of one of the following options: thesis, coursework/project or additional coursework. View the curriculum Careers Arts leadership and management graduates pursue executive positions at a variety of places, including: arts organizations, theater companies, museums, symphony orchestras and production companies. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©