Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Human Resources> Compensation> Salary Administration For Employees Subject to the State Human Resources Act - Version 1 Salary Administration For Employees Subject to the State Human Resources Act Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG06.20.02 Title Salary Administration For Employees Subject to the State Human Resources Act Category Human Resources Sub-category Compensation Authority Chancellor History August 31, 2016 Contact Director of Classification and Compensation, Department of Human Resources 252-328-9847 Related Policies Office of State Human Resources Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) General Pay Policies Career Banding Salary Administration Compensation of Foreign Service Employees Extended Duty for Medical Personnel Holiday Premium Pay Hours of Work and Overtime Compensation Initial Classification Longevity On-Call and Emergency Callback Pay Redeployment Shift Premium Pay Sign-On Bonus Policy Supplemental Salary Additional References 1. Introduction East Carolina University utilizes a variety of salary administration policies to manage pay for employees subject to the State Human Resources Act (“SHRA”).With regard to any salary administration policies listed below that are not specifically addressed in ECU’s Clinical Support Services (“CSS”) policies and/or regulations, ECU also applies the policies and regulations expressed herein to CSS employees. For details about each salary administration policy, please see the policy website of the Office of State Human Resources (“OSHR”), which can be accessed at the links provided below and/or located above in the Related Policies section. In the event that there is a conflict between the contents of this regulation and a state or federal statute, the statute shall control. 2. General Pay Policies General pay policies summarize various salary administration policies to include compensation, salary ranges, pay status, overtime pay, availability of funds, and payment of salary. 3. Career Banding Salary Administration It is the policy of the State to compensate its employees at a level sufficient to encourage excellence of performance and to maintain the labor market competitiveness necessary to recruit, retain and develop a competent and diverse work force. 4.Compensation of Foreign Service Employees A foreign service employee is defined as any full-time employee subject to the SHRA who is transferred from North Carolina to a foreign assignment to live and work for a period of time greater than three months. Foreign nationals employed in and assigned to work in their country of origin are not included in this policy. 5. Extended Duty for Medical Personnel Critical shortages of coverage on evening and weekend shifts in certain medically related areas sometimes make it impossible to maintain an adequate staff to meet all workload requirements. In order to meet such workloads, an employee of the State who is exempt from the hours of work and overtime provisions of FLSA may, if the employee agrees, be scheduled to work additional hours beyond the regular work schedule and receive pay on a straight-time basis. 6. Holiday Premium Pay Employees who are required to work on designated holidays shall be given, in addition to regular salary, premium pay equal to one-half of their regular straight-time hourly rate for such hours as are worked on these days. In addition, holiday compensatory time off shall be given, not to exceed 8 hours. This covers both FLSA non-exempt and exempt employees. 7. Hours of Work and Overtime Compensation Defines Fair Labor Standards Act in its application to State and local governments as declared by the Supreme Court. 8. Initial Classification Initial classification occurs in the following situations:when a position or a group of positions is classified and brought under the SHRA and when a position under the SHRA, but not officially classified, is reviewed and a permanent classification and salary range is assigned. 9. Longevity Longevity pay is to recognize long-term service. An eligible employee who has at least ten (10) years of total State service shall receive a lump sum payment annually. Payment shall be made during the same monthly pay period or by the second biweekly pay period following the date the employee is eligible to receive longevity pay. This includes employees on workers’ compensation leave. 10. On-Call and Emergency Callback Pay It is the policy of the State of North Carolina to provide additional compensation to designated FLSA non-exempt employees who are required to serve in on-call status and/or who are called back to work. Management should carefully weigh the costs and benefits of alternatives before authorizing on-call or emergency callback pay. Reasonableness and fairness shall be exercised in administering this policy. 11. Redeployment Redeployment is the movement of an employee from one position to another position within the same agency or the movement of an employee, or an employee and a position, from one agency to another under the following circumstances:the move is due to an enterprise-wide project that results in the need to utilize an employee’s competencies for greater effectiveness in another area of an agency or in another agency, and there is no break in service. 12. Shift Premium Pay The State shall provide additional compensation for employees who are regularly scheduled to work on either an evening or night shift, or on a weekend shift for certain classes when determined to be necessary to be competitive with the labor market. Shifts will be defined within the agency based on operating requirements and work environment. SHRA employees who occupy positions which are scheduled on a regular, recurring basis to work on shifts in which more than half of the working hours occur between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. are eligible for shift premium pay. 13. Sign-On Bonus Policy A sign-on bonus is a lump sum payment that serves as a recruitment incentive to aid in the employment of individuals in critical positions that have labor market shortages which affect the business needs of the agency and which impair the delivery of essential services. 14. Supplemental Salary Supplemental salary is any compensation from an affiliated public charity, foundation or other private source paid to a State employee for services that are part of the employee’s regular job and is in addition to the employee’s base salary paid by the State and any other compensation authorized by Human Resources Commission policies but which the private source is not obligated to pay and on which the Retirement System is not obligated to accept contributions. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier