Skip to main content Skip to main navigation External Affairs Menu Connect About Us Contact Us Events & Opportunities Waco Leadership Experience Envisioning Equity Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series Previous 2022 Gil Taylor Events Publications Social & Economic Impact Report 19-20 Waco Culture Guide Baylor Campus Engagement Guide Social & Economic Impact Report 20-21 Community Leadership Ambassador Council Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Past Projects Solid Gold Neighbor Economic Development Health Education Cultural Wealth City Growth The Collective Capacity Grantmaking Recognition Champions of Change Stories Strategy Institutional Events CCSI Make a Gift Baylor>External Affairs>Community Leadership>Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Show Your Support Donate Now We believe in investing in our neighbors. A gift to the Baylor/Waco Foundation is a gift to our community. The Baylor/Waco Foundation, supported by local leaders and current Baylor students through Baylor's Philanthropy & Public Good course, grants funds to local non-profits working in economic development, health, education, cultural wealth and city growth, focus areas of Baylor's community engagement initiative. Baylor Waco Foundation funds are used to enhance opportunities for Baylor/Waco projects, connectivity and growth. Two main activities include the Philanthropy & Public Good Course and Solid Gold Neighbor Research Fellows Program. Make a gift today and join with us as we rally campus-wide and city-wide resources to make a local impact, allowing all to flourish and thrive. 2020 Baylor/Waco Foundation grant recipients include: Advocacy Center for Crime Victims and Children, $5,000. The Advocacy Center is an umbrella nonprofit organization of programs that serve to bring about healing to children and adults who are victims of crime and to facilitate change to end violence through advocacy, collaboration and community awareness. Care Net Pregnancy Center of Central Texas, $10,000. Care Net Pregnancy Center provides a caring, confidential atmosphere to discuss pregnancy options and sexual health while respecting each individual. CASA of McLennan County, $15,000. CASA of McLennan County’s mission is to provide a trained volunteer, a Court-Appointed Special Advocate, for every abused and neglected child in the county so they may ultimately thrive in safe, nurturing and permanent homes. Community Cancer Association, $8,500. The Community Cancer Association is a nonprofit in McLennan County that works with local cancer patients and their families to address some of the financial issues that occur as a result of their health condition. Esther’s Closet, $25,000. Esther’s Closet is a self-sufficiency program to assist unemployed women in Waco, providing interview and workplace outfits as well as resume writing and equipping women and children to escape poverty. Talitha Koum Institute, $21,700. Talitha Koum Institute is a mental health therapeutic nurture center, focusing on the brain development of at-risk children from infancy to 5 years old. The Cove, $4,800. The Cove is a teen nurturing center designed to provide a safe space for students experiencing homelessness to access the resources they need to thrive. Show your support by making a gift today. Make a Gift Learn more about the 2020 grant-making process here. Read more about Solid Gold Neighbor, Baylor's intentional and purposeful community engagement strategy. Community Leadership Ambassador Council Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Past Projects External Affairs Harris House 1315 S. 7th St. Waco, TX 76706 One Bear Place #97101 Waco, TX 76798 External_Affairs@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Connect About Us Contact Us Events & Opportunities Waco Leadership Experience Envisioning Equity Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series 2021 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Symposium 2020 Gil Taylor Behavioral Health Series Previous 2022 Gil Taylor Events Publications Social & Economic Impact Report 19-20 Waco Culture Guide Baylor Campus Engagement Guide Social & Economic Impact Report 20-21 Community Leadership Ambassador Council Baylor/Waco Foundation Baylor/Waco Foundation Past Projects Solid Gold Neighbor Economic Development Health Education Cultural Wealth City Growth The Collective Capacity Grantmaking Recognition Champions of Change Stories Strategy Institutional Events CCSI Make a Gift