Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources BEAR Bargains & Working Advantage Discount Programs BEAR Bargains BEAR Bargains (Brown Employee Appreciation and Recognition) is a discount program for all members of the Brown community. A Brown ID Card allows staff, faculty, and students access to a variety of discounts and services in the Providence area and beyond. BEAR Bargains Discount List Due to COVID-19, please contact the vendor to confirm the hours of service and any restrictions that may apply. WORKING ADVANTAGE In partnership with Working Advantage, Brown community members may also access national discounts for travel, concerts, sporting events, tours, and more! To register for Working Advantage, follow these instructions. resources Please fill out this business registration form to enroll your business or update your status. BEAR Bargains and Working Advantage FAQs Please contact Wendy Zhu at [email protected] for questions regarding the BEAR Bargains Program. Disclaimer for Vendors: BEAR Bargains does not send out advertisements or coupons on behalf of vendors – and cannot provide community members with flyers or coupons detailing your organization’s discount, nor will we provide any email addresses of community members for you to contact them directly. BEAR Bargains discounts are sustained discounts and should be considered permanent until the vendor decides to amend them. Vendors should not list with this program if they want to simply promote a one-off deal or daily special the company is offering. Also in University Human Resources Benefits Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat