Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Colleges & Campus UCF Grad Named Executive Director of Legacy Pointe at UCF Josh Smith ’04, a hospitality management alum, was selected to lead the new senior living community near campus. By Sarah Kelliher | August 28, 2020 Josh Smith ’04 was named the new executive director of Legacy Pointe at UCF. Legacy Pointe at UCF, a UCF-affiliated life care retirement community has named Josh Smith ’04 as its new executive director. “From his beginnings in the culinary service to his in-depth management experience, to his passion for UCF, he’s the perfect match.” — Bob Holmes Smith, who graduated with a hospitality management degree from UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management, is returning to Orlando for the first time since graduating in 2004 to lead the way at the community’s life-enriching campus, expected to open its doors summer 2021 near the main campus. Smith, a graduate of both UCF and Liberty University, brings 16 years of senior living knowledge and working experience to Legacy Pointe at UCF. Previously, Smith served as executive director at Life Care Services and Brookdale Senior Living in Bradenton, Florida, and he also held various operational roles with Virginia Baptist Homes (now LifeSpire of Virginia) based in Richmond, Virginia. He says he has always been a true caregiver at heart with a passion for providing hospitality to others. “Josh Smith brings so much to the table at Legacy Pointe,” says Bob Holmes, Legacy Pointe board chairman. “From his beginnings in the culinary service to his in-depth management experience, to his passion for UCF, he’s the perfect match.” Located in Oviedo, Legacy Pointe at UCF is a senior living facility scheduled to open in 2021. Legacy Pointe at UCF is managed by Greystone and is under construction on Old Lockwood Road, Oviedo, just north of McCulloch Road and directly across from Seminole County’s Econ River Wilderness Area. Future residents will have the opportunity to live independently or assisted, in either spacious villas or apartment homes on campus. Residents will also have lifelong access to assisted living, memory care, skilled nursing and rehabilitation services. “[Smith] was one of, if not the first, student to graduate from our program and then go into the senior living industry.” — Abraham Pizam “It is a pleasure to welcome Josh Smith to the Greystone team. Josh has over 16 years of experience in senior living, plus brings the hospitality approach via his studies at the Rosen College, which recently launched a new degree in senior living management. Josh is a Florida native and is thrilled to be returning to the Orlando area to pay forward his senior living experiences to the source where it all began,” says R. Edward Thorne, first vice president of Greystone. Researched and planned by thought leaders at UCF, Legacy Pointe’s physical proximity and working affiliation with the university will elevate practically every aspect of community life for its residents. As a result of partnerships with respective colleges at UCF, Legacy Pointe residents can expect: Access to a multigenerational campus with a UCF student ID card, given to all Legacy Pointe residents, to enjoy academic opportunities at UCF Lifelong learning programs that will help advance successful aging within the community Opportunities to enjoy UCF arts and cultural facilities and activities, sporting events and more Vibrant interns and students who will form meaningful relationships with residents Cutting-edge, resident-centered care Living options at Legacy Pointe range from independent living to memory and skilled nursing care. While serving as executive director at Legacy Pointe, Smith also plans to reap the benefits of UCF’s proximity to Legacy Pointe, returning as a student at UCF to earn his PhD in Hospitality Management. “Josh was always an active and good student from my recollection. He thought about the senior living industry and the opportunity to apply the culture of hospitality to that industry from the very start,” says Abraham Pizam, Linda Chapin Eminent Scholar Chair in Tourism Management at UCF, founding dean of Rosen College, and a board member at Legacy Pointe. “Back when he was an undergraduate student, a lot of Josh’s peers weren’t thinking about careers in senior living. He was one of, if not the first, student to graduate from our program and then go into the senior living industry. His passion for this kind of hospitality has always been evident. His return to UCF is really just the perfect storm.” Legacy Pointe at UCF is expected to open its doors under Smith’s direction in 2021. To learn more, visit legacypointeatucf.com. More Topics UCF Alumni Rosen College of Hospitality Management Hospitality Management Legacy Pointe Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Share this content on LinkedIn Related Stories Rosen College Degree Programs Ranked in Top 10 UCF Class Spotlight: Exploring Wines of the World How One Alumna Is Embracing Zenn Through Farming UCF Student Veteran’s Inspiring Personal Mission to Be Part of the Magic 7 Questions with Nicole Cutrufo ‘13 From Unemployment to Celebrity Weddings and Professional Sports How Mobile Devices Increase Student Engagement Bradenton Area CVB Partners with UCF’s Rosen College to Launch Ambassador Program University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida