Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Communication Sciences and Disorders About Programs People Research Areas Student Orgs Resources News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research Areas CRISCI Hearing Research Speech Research Language Research Take Action Apply Now Support the School Memphis Speech and Hearing Center Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home School of Communication Sciences and Disorders Research Areas CRISCI The Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired The Center for Research Initiatives and Strategies for the Communicatively Impaired (CRISCI) was established in 1984. At that time it was designated a Center of Excellence for the study of communication disorders and received a grant of over $600,000 from the Tennessee Higher Education Commission. The State of Tennessee continues to fund much of the Center's research through Center of Excellence grants. In 1988, the State designated the CRISCI an Accomplished Center of Excellence. The activities of the CRISCI encompass a wide range of research and services in communication disorders. From the outset, its principal goals have been to: develop innovative clinical procedures for the communicatively impaired create a model service delivery program for the Mid-South region establish an outstanding research program in communication disorders Accomplishment of the first two goals has been greatly facilitated by the fact that the CRISCI occupies the same space and shares professional staff with the Memphis Speech & Hearing Center. The Center is a clinical facility that has served over 20,000 children and adults since its affiliation with The University of Memphis in 1967. Maintaining the quality and distinctiveness of the clinical procedures and service delivery program is an ongoing and challenging process for the CRISCI. As to the third goal, basic and applied research investigations at the CRISCI are directed toward improved understanding of the characteristics and abilities of normal and impaired listeners and speakers. This involves studies of normal and impaired speech, language, and hearing, as well as investigations of research methodology and development and application of modern technology that satisfy the needs of the communicatively impaired. Since receiving its designation as a Center of Excellence, the CRISCI has pursued new avenues of research and expand its existing research capabilities. In addition to funding made available through the State of Tennessee, additional research funds have been received through grants from the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Deafness Research Foundation and other private organizations. The CRISCI is an integral part of The University of Memphis' School of Communication Sciences and Disorders. The CRISCI director also serves as dean of the school and director of the Memphis Speech and Hearing Center. All staff researchers are faculty members and professional audiologists or speech/language pathologists certified by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Many of our faculty are affiliate members of the Institute for Intelligent Systems. The Center's 23,800 square foot facility provides ample space for clinical treatment rooms, administrative offices, and computer support facilities. In addition, there are eleven fully equipped and operational research laboratories. Recent additions to our facilities include an anechoic chamber and a rotational vestibular chair. The CRISCI researchers are supported by computer systems specialists. Services provided by the computer support group include design and development of application software, interfacing of computers with research laboratory equipment, integration and usage of commercial software, and general hardware/software technical assistance. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/9/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.