COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Hannah Johnson, who will graduate with a Bachelor's of Fine Arts in graphic design, wanted to attend Wichita State because the university helps its students find internships and hands-on learning experiences. May 05, 2022graphic designCollege of Fine ArtsGraduate ProfilesAccess and Affordability Meet a Shocker: Hannah Johnson By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Hannah Johnson will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of how Wichita State helps students find internships and hands-on learning experiences. Hannah is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. Hometown Augusta, Kansas Major Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design What made you want to attend Wichita State? I knew I wanted to attend Wichita State because it was local and affordable. I could take my time deciding what I wanted to major in, and I love how Wichita State helps its students find internships and hands-on learning experiences. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I am feeling slightly overwhelmed as I wrap up projects and prepare for the student portfolio review and my senior show. Overall, I am ready to be out of school and excited about the job possibilities after graduation. What has been your biggest challenge as a student and how dd you overcome it? One of the biggest challenges as a student, is feeling like my work is less than my peers or that I need to be designing in a different way. Since we began in-person classes again, I have been talking to my classmates about projects and my mindset has started to change. I just remind myself that I am my own person, my design work reflects who I am and where I am in life. I know that my level of skill in design will continue increase the longer I work at it What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita state? One of the most helpful and eye-opening experiences was working as a graphic design intern at WSU’s Strategic Communications office. What are your plans after graduation? After graduation I would love to find a job with a local design firm in Wichita. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? COVID changed a lot of things, and looking back, I would have loved to experience the personal interaction with my classmates and teachers, especially because I was still in the beginning of the program when all classes moved to remote learning. What advice would you give other Wichita State students? I would advise other Wichita State students to put themselves out there, to step out of their comfort zone, meet new people and experience everything that the school has to offer. Your time here goes by so fast and the connections you make can make a difference to your level of success once you leave. Bachelor or Fine Arts in Graphic Design WSU's program prepares students for competitive, client-based work in advertising agencies, design studios, and as part of in-house creative teams for major brands. Many students get a head start on their career with an internship at a local company with a global reach. Learn more about Bachelor of Fine Arts in Graphic Design Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Graduates Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel Graduate Profiles Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©