COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Criminal Justice, Master's Master'sCriminal Justice All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Criminal Justice Wichita State's Master of Arts (MA) in criminal justice combines quality curriculum in theory and practice, a flexible online option—and a new location within the Law Enforcement Training Center on WSU's Innovation Campus. Graduates are well prepared for positions in criminal justice system practice, management, policymaking, as well as in research, teaching and further study in law and other areas. Learn how Criminal Justice is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program In addition to WSU Grad School admission requirements, applicants must: Have a bachelor's degree and minimum 3.0 GPA in the last 60 credit hours Submit two letters of recommendation from professional references who can speak to the applicant's background and potential success in the master's program Submit a letter of intent: a brief autobiographical statement describing particular interests, experiences and goals related to academic and professional work in criminal justice For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Law Enforcement Training Center benefits students, community The Law Enforcement Training Center provides an unprecedented experience for students in WSU's Criminal Justice Program. Students benefit from a close relationship with law enforcement, including internships, co-op positions and applied learning opportunities. The state-of-the-art facility includes training space and classrooms for the Sedgwick County Sheriff's Department, Wichita Police Department and criminal justice students. Curriculum The program consists of 36 credit hours at the 500-level or above, including 24 credit hours of electives. You'll complete four core courses and also choose from electives based on your interests and career goals. View the curriculum Careers A degree in criminal justice from Wichita State will give you an edge with a diverse range of employers, including local, state and federal law enforcement; courts and correctional agencies; juvenile justice; private security; and related fields. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Sociology (Master's) Public Administration (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©