Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About About the UW Diversity Global Impact Innovation Leadership Maps Population Health Sustainability Visit Academics Academic calendar Academic departments Colleges and schools Course descriptions Registration Student guide Time schedule Apply Admissions Financial Aid Continuing education Majors Student housing Transfer students Tuition and fees Undocumented students UW Online News & Events UW News Featured stories Arts UW Calendar UW Magazine Husky sports Newsletter Research Office of Research Research Lifecycle Resources Collaboration Stats and rankings Campuses Bothell Seattle Tacoma Give Give now Ways to give My UW Giving Hidden gems Explore the Seattle campus Parnassus cafe Located in the basement of the Art Building, Parnassus is the oldest cafe on the UW campus and one of the oldest coffeehouses in Seattle. Students established Parnassus in 1951, and it remains student-run (with administrative and training support from UW Dining). The walls of Parnassus feature student artwork. Half of the cafe’s profits and all tips go directly to the Parnassus Endowed Fund, supporting the Parnassus Graduating with Excellence awards for undergraduate and graduate students. More info Gallagher Law Library Located in William H. Gates Hall, the Gallagher Law Library is a wonderful place to be productive. Not only does the library offer plenty of tables, cubicles and open seating, but it also maintains a level of quiet rivaled only by the Suzzallo Library Reading Room. If you’re looking for a peaceful place where you can concentrate, this is a great option. More info Jacobsen Observatory Built in 1895, the Jacobsen Observatory is the second-oldest building on the UW campus and was constructed using leftover stone from Denny Hall. This active observatory is staffed with a team of dedicated volunteers who are happy to share their passion for astronomy with the public. More info Physics Building Pendulum Beneath a glass dome in the Physics Building’s auditorium wing, the Foucault pendulum is an intriguing sight. Named for its inventor, 19th-century French physicist Léon Foucault, the pendulum demonstrates the effect of Earth’s rotation. The building, by renowned architect César Pelli, features other unique finds, including a planetarium, a sundial, and, in the leafy courtyard, a bronze sculpture (known by students as “the giant peanut”) by American artist Martin Puryear. More info Grieg Garden Once a parking lot, Grieg Garden is now a cozy clearing surrounded by trees and flowering shrubs. Situated on the north side of the HUB Yard, it’s best viewed in the spring, when rhododendrons and azaleas frame the space in drifts of lavender, crimson, magenta and pink. The garden features the likeness of Norwegian composer Edvard Grieg, in a bronze bust originally cast for the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition of 1909. A group of Scandinavian fraternal societies gave the sculpture to the UW in 1917. Find on campus map Medicinal Herb Garden The   Medicinal Herb Garden was created  by the UW Pharmacy Department in 1911, with more than two acres devoted to a wide variety of medicinal, food, fiber, dye and ceremonial plants from around the world.  This peaceful spot, not far from Rainier Vista and Sylvan Grove, is free and open at all times. Find on campus map Note: Each photograph above was taken following the appropriate safety protocols at the time. Return to Visitor Center Campus map University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA