Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Undergraduate Admissions Menu Search TTU Undergraduate Admissions International International Student Life Advice from Current International Students Advice from Current International Students The advice below is from 10 current Texas Tech International Students. These students are our 2021-2022 Global Guides. They are volunteers, who work year long as a friendly face and mentor to incoming international students. Follow us on Instagram! "Lubbock is not a typical good first-impression city that I think of, but I find it more and more attractive as I live here longer. It is a city with a warm heart and open arms. It is vibrant and blooming with opportunities, yet at the same time, a very tight community. Be confident, be real, and be nice to people and you will find so many friends. One thing that you might want to consider is to get a driver's license because this city is designed for driving. If you can't get a license, that is ok because you can carpool with people and that makes you friends with each other really fast! There are a lot of good restaurants in Lubbock and going out with friends is a great way to build relationships. Bring a pair of rain boots and you will thank me in spring. Bring your favorite hometown snacks, they will bring you familiarity in a foreign country and give you a little taste of home. Lastly, be ready to be challenged! Don't worry, because there are a lot of people who care about you here and we've all got your back! You are going to be just fine 😉" ~ Yufei (China) Foreign land, new scenery, unfamiliar people and crazy skies. Lubbock has it all. As new students, you will have the opportunity to experience the Texas Tech culture and everything Lubbock has to offer. To make the most out of your college experience, make sure you keep up with on campus activities, join clubs and organizations, get social and attend events. Get ready to use Snapchat. Surround yourself with people who encourage you, care about you, and don't forget to call your loved ones. When someone invites you out, say yes! Be curious. Ask questions. Learn a sport, take a walk or simply treat yourself to some chocolate because why not?! Don't hesitate to get involved and grab those opportunities. And most importantly— be yourself! ~Prrishti ✨🇲🇺 Welcome to Texas Tech! We're very happy to have you here. When I first decided to attend Texas Tech university, most of my friends told me” There are not many things to do in Lubbock”. You might have already heard this. In a way, they were being honest, because Lubbock is a small city compared to Dallas, Houston, New York etc; But what they didn't know is Lubbock has a welcoming community that is happy to take everyone in and become part of the red raider family. Being away from home is not always as cool as they make it to be on TV shows. Maybe this is your first time leaving your family and coming to another country, or maybe you've been doing this. Whatever it is, please know that you are not alone in this journey. Life has its ups and downs. There will be moments when you feel alone, helpless, or just simply want to talk to someone, please don't hesitate to reach out. You never know how many people are feeling the same way until you reach out and share your experience. After all, we humans are a social species, tribal by nature. As Global guides, we are here to help you create wonderful memories at Texas Tech and flourish as an individual. Moving to a foreign country for college is not always as easy as it sounds, especially if you have to leave your family behind in your home country. I was really excited coming down to Texas Tech, however, I started becoming nervous when it dawned on me that I would be alone in a foreign country with a different educational system—it was then I realized I had not prepared myself mentally for this new journey of life. You can already tell, from the previous paragraph, that my biggest advice is for you to not just prepare physically, but also prepare mentally. Your mental capacity is based on your mindset, which is key to how you approach and overcome challenges that may come your way. This is something I had to learn myself, even though I wish I had known it prior to coming to Tech. So please when you get down to Texas Tech, do not limit your mind and stay confined to just going to classes; rather take advantage of the numerous opportunities on campus, especially getting involved in student organizations and other leadership roles. By doing this, you'll feel more accepted and easily adapt to the new culture. Always Remember: You being a foreign student does not make you any less human!!! Engage as much as you can with the TTU and local Lubbock community, which includes attending various cultural events (when it is safe to do so), celebrations, workshops, and most importantly, talking to people, sharing your culture, and being interested in their culture. When I came to Texas Tech two years ago, I found it hard to get used to cultural differences (foreign way of living/studying/customs/food), overcome a language barrier, and dealing with homesickness. While there is no easy solution to resolve these difficulties, having support from your Lubbock friends and community will definitely help to ease things out. That's why I recommend allocating some time during your first few weeks to build these connections. Before the semester starts and you have a lot of things to do, take some time to discover Lubbock! My top favorite places are the National Ranching Heritage and the Windmill Museum.Finally, check Facebook Marketplace and Facebook garage sales groups before buying some household items. This helped me to save a lot of money during my first month in Lubbock. There are not many things as daunting as moving to another country to study. The good news is many have done it successfully so you can too. The number one thing that unhinges international students is culture shock; so find small ways to feel at home. Be it music, shows, food, whatever form of art, find little ways to indulge your home culture. Another huge issue is loneliness. Moving away from friends and family, leaving your whole support system behind is hard. You don't have to leave them behind. Make out time to call, catch up with friends and family that are far away. Do not sit in your dorm room and spend time only with yourself, do not limit yourself to people from your home country. Go out, especially during welcome week, get a feel of almost every organization you can find, and say yes to people when they ask you to go for events. Many organizations are looking to help you settle into life in the United States. You pay a lot of money for services so you might as well use them; go workout at the rec center, go read at the library, attend sports games. The journey you're about to embark on is exhilarating, be cautious. Watch how you eat, watch how you spend money, and be sure to attend your classes. I hope you have a sublime year, and remember we're here if you need anything. Coming to Tech can be a bit overwhelming, especially as an international student! You'll be surrounded by tons of students while walking to class and you'll meet so many new faces every day! It can be quite intimidating and easy to get lost in the crowd and loose a sense of belonging. But this is a great way to learn more about yourself! You need to keep on reminding yourself that the students around you are either going or have been through the same thing. Just like you, they too have felt lost at some point while attending Tech and that they too climbed out of that hole shaping them into the person they are today! Say yes to all the opportunities that interest you! It could be joining one of the many clubs and organizations that are on campus. Search for on campus jobs and student assistantships that grab your attention. Go out, experience and learn new things! This is a period to explore, and Tech has all the resources to do so, you just have to ask and look for them! Tech hosts a lot of events throughout the year, these events are a great way to meet new people and learn about the Tech culture. If you ever do feel lost, attend the football games in the fall and the basketball games in the spring. These events truly do provide you with a sense of belonging! During those few hours you are sharing the same highs and lows with each and every Tech student whether you know them or not! So, keep that chin up and don't get bogged down if things don't go your way because these next few years are going to be one hell of a roller coaster! Study abroad is an opportunity to know yourself better. You probably came to TTU to get to know another culture and meet people from everywhere, and you will! But in that process, you will also push your boundaries and find that you are capable of much more than you thought. Welcome to TTU, welcome to a whole new adventure. Here you'll find opportunities and a welcoming community. It's not always easy, but it's so worth it!Lubbock is waiting for you. When you are here, take time to go and explore it. You will probably spend the next four years here, so get to know your neighborhood. Once you have friends, you can maybe plan trips somewhere else. Dallas, Denver, or even Las Vegas are not far. I invite you to open your mind, be prepared for new challenges, try your best, and give yourself the chance to live different experiences. Are you nervous about coming here? That's the best part, the excitement of starting a new life, enjoy it! My best advice is to be proactive. Do you need anything? Go for it! Get out of your comfort zone. You have the chance to start fresh here; take advantage! Studying abroad is one of the most rewarding experiences that one can have in life, and Don't be afraid to seek out help be it from your friends, professor, advisor or a local, because it gets tough if you try to do everything by yourself and it doesn't hurt to have support. Lubbock and Texas Tech University are one of the friendliest places especially for international students which makes everything easier. Immerse in new cultures, meet new people, try new restaurants, find a new hobby, explore a new place, and most importantly find a good spot in the library and a group to help you focus on your studies and career goals. Always remember this, ‘Try all you can and even if you fail, at least you didn't fail to try!' you should be proud of yourself for taking this big step to achieve your goals. As you prepare for this crucial chapter of your life's journey, I would like to advise and warn you that it is not going to be easy. Time after time, you might find yourself thinking about how you miss certain people, place, and things. The wisest thing you can do in this situation is to remind yourself of why you took this leap of faith in the first place. So, believe in yourself and trust the process! Going to a big university like Tech might be scary for many people, at least it was for me. However, one of the things I love the most about tech is how friendly the students and faculty are. Most people here will help you as long as you are willing to put yourself out there and ask questions. As soon as I realized that I was not the only afraid to talk to people, I was able to be more open and to meet plenty of amazing people from all over the world. Tech is the perfect place to learn about other cultures without having to travel miles away. It is very diverse, and you will get to meet so many unique people and have a unique experience. My advice, keep an open mind, don't be scared to engage people, and enjoy this experience. Top of Page Undergraduate Admissions Like Undergraduate Admissions on FacebookLike Undergraduate Admissions on Facebook Follow Undergraduate Admissions on twitterFollow Undergraduate Admissions on twitter Follow Undergraduate Admissions on InstagramFollow Undergraduate Admissions on Instagram Address Texas Tech University, 2500 Broadway, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (806) 742-1480 Email admissions@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech University May 31, 2022 11:14 AM Undergraduate Admissions Admission Undergraduate Admissions Admission Back Become a Red Raider Undergraduate Admissions Admission Become a Red Raider Back I'm Admitted I’m a High School Student I’m a Transfer Student I’m a Former Tech Student I’m an International Student My Students Want to be Red Raiders Admission Resources Undergraduate Admissions Admission Admission Resources Back En Español Find my Counselor Important Dates Other Admission Residency Determination Resources Request Information Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Admissions Academics Academics Back Areas of Study Majors A-Z Colleges Online and Regional Programs Enrichment Undergraduate Admissions Academics Enrichment Back Undergraduate Research Study Abroad Honors College Preparation for Success Explore Undergraduate Admissions Academics Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Campus Tours & Events Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Back Schedule a Tour Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Schedule a Tour Back Campus Tours Large Group Tours Contact Us Attend an Event Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Attend an Event Back On-Campus Events Regional Events Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Tours & Events Explore Back Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Campus Life Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Back Live Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Live Back Campus Experience Dining Housing Safety Connect Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Connect Back Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Spirit & Traditions Student Organizations Recreation Explore Undergraduate Admissions Campus Life Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Chat with Current Students Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Back Find Value at Texas Tech Financial Aid Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Financial Aid Back Cost of Attendance Net Cost Calculator Important Dates Financial Aid Forms Scholarships Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Scholarships Back For Incoming Freshmen For Incoming Transfers Frequently Asked Questions Explore Undergraduate Admissions Cost & Aid Explore Back Schedule a Tour Watch our Videos Take a Virtual Tour Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index