Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Creative Inquiry Student Opportunity Center The Office of Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research has partnered with the Student Opportunity Center (SOC) to bring all Clemson undergraduate students access to more than 10,000 presentation, publishing, internships, and funding opportunities. The SOC is a database and community platform where students are connected with academic engagement opportunities. The Database lists thousands of events (conferences, meetings), publications (journals, blogs), and experiential learning opportunities (intern/scholar programs, grants). The Community Platform provides a way for students to create/participate in their own events & opportunities on institutional, local, state, and regional levels. Sign up now! To Make An Account on SOC: Go to SOC and select the “LOG IN” button in the top right hand corner. Click the “sign up” button at the bottom. Fill out the information using your @g.clemson.edu email (this will link your account to Clemson so you can use the site for free). Activate your account by going to your email and clicking the link they send you. Using Student Opportunity Center: The Home Page – Find the search bar in the middle of the page Useful Tabs (on the left side): Search (where you can find opportunities) My Opportunities (repository of your saved opportunities) Interests (filter and select fields for your interests/opportunities) Profile – set-up your profile in the right side of the home page Trouble-shooting – If the tabs are not visible, click on the set of three lines in the upper left-hand corner next to the search bar. Logout by clicking your name in the upper right-hand corner and select “logout”. Home Students Faculty Grad Students Summer CI + UR Corporate CI Clemson COVID Challenge About CI Opportunities & Events Bradley Award Carr Family Endowment Mentor Forum FOCI Poster Forum Services Student Opportunity Center Clemson Student Research Forum Beckman Scholars Program CI + UR Seminar Series Related Links Current Projects Decipher Magazine Contact Us Watt Family Innovation Center Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram