Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Great Texts Menu About Us In Memoriam: Dr. Susan Colon News Events Calendar Contact Us Profiles Prospective Students Why Study Great Texts? How Engineers Benefit From Taking Great Texts (New Video) How to Major or Minor in Great Texts Great Texts and Pre-Law Great Texts and Pre-Medicine Great Texts Across the Baylor Curriculum Current Students Fall 2022 Courses Fall 2021 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Spring 2020 Courses Course Requirements for Major Course Requirements for Minor Advising Lists of Possible Texts Resources For... Researching Great Texts Career Opportunities Faculty Alumni Great Texts Wisdom to change Your Life Study foundational works of literature, theology, and philosophy in small, seminar-style classes. Students consider the messy questions that contemporary disciplines often set aside, exploring the connections between what we know, how we live, and what we enjoy. Explore Prospective Students Discover the life of the mind. Get beyond secondary treatments and go straight to the primary texts. Encounter the greatest minds of human history. Prospective Students Current Students Challenge yourself with stimulating reading and lively Socratic-style seminars. Find information about new courses, offered by some of Baylor's best teachers. Current Students Alumni Continue the dialogue that you began in Great Texts. Connect with GTX alumni who are making their mark in top graduate schools, creative programs, law schools, medical schools and entrepreneurship. Alumni Faculty Great Texts is the academic home to some of Baylor’s most dynamic teachers and leading scholars. Influencing conversations in a range of scholarly disciplines, Great Texts faculty have published their research in the world’s best presses—Yale, Cambridge, Notre Dame, Brill, De Gruyter, Routledge, Edinburgh. Great Texts faculty bring their scholarly expertise to life in seminars that actively involve students and initiate them into the life of the mind. Learn More About Our Faculty Profiles Read More Profiles Olivia Perez Student "Studying Great Texts has provided me with knowledge beyond the traditional classroom." Samuel Still Alumni "My time in studying the Great Texts not only stoked within me a passion to never stop reading and learning, but also helped set my feet more solidly on the ever so challenging pathway of Christian discipleship." Dr. Phillip J. Donnelly Faculty "The Great Texts Program provides that distinctive combination of personal encounter and intellectual apprenticeship by considering the most important questions about how we live. This is why Baylor engineering students, for example, study Great Texts." Follow Us on Social Media Great Texts Brooks College 153 One Bear Place #97144 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7251 GTX@baylor.edu VisitMake a GiftHonors CollegeHonors Residential College General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us In Memoriam: Dr. Susan Colon News Events Calendar Contact Us Profiles Prospective Students Why Study Great Texts? How Engineers Benefit From Taking Great Texts (New Video) How to Major or Minor in Great Texts Great Texts and Pre-Law Great Texts and Pre-Medicine Great Texts Across the Baylor Curriculum Current Students Fall 2022 Courses Fall 2021 Courses Fall 2020 Courses Spring 2020 Courses Course Requirements for Major Course Requirements for Minor Advising Lists of Possible Texts Resources For... Researching Great Texts Career Opportunities Faculty Alumni