Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Psychiatry Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords News Top Stories Columbia Scientists Identify Gene Variants Linked to Severe Schizophrenia New insights into the genetic architecture of schizophrenia hold promise for improved risk prediction and the development of better drugs to treat the disease. Topic Mental Health Talk Therapy by U.S. Psychiatrists Declined By Half Since 1990s A study by Columbia researchers found that between 1996 and 2016 the percentage of psychiatrist visits involving psychotherapy declined by half—dropping to only 21.6% of patient visits. Topic Mental Health Ketamine Rapidly Improves Cognitive Function, Making Those in Suicidal Crisis Less Likely to Harm Themselves Five-year Columbia clinical trial indicates rapid cognitive shift diminishes suicidal thoughts, independently of improvement in depressive symptoms. Topic Mental Health Columbia Psychiatry Launches Mobile Depression App A new digital support tool, Columbia Psychiatry Pathways, strengthens the ability of clinicians to provide critical mental health services for individuals with major depression. Topic Mental Health Latest News Bullying and Children: What Parents Need to Know October 13, 2021 October is National Bullying Prevention Month and Anne Marie Albano, PhD, an expert in child and adolescent psychology, explains how parents can recognize bullying and help their children. Topic Mental Health A New Technology Provides a More Precise Measure of Pain September 29, 2021 Columbia Psychiatry's Caroline Arout uses quantitative sensory testing, or QST, for assessing the effectiveness of cannabis for therapeutic uses. Topic Mental Health Sidney Hankerson Named Emerging Leader in Health and Medicine September 21, 2021 The National Academy of Medicine named Hankerson one of ten 2021 Emerging Leaders in Health and Medicine—scholars who are poised to shape the future of science, medicine, and health equity. Topic Campus News Easing Back-to-School Anxiety in the COVID Era August 17, 2021 Columbia psychologist Alyssa Ames-Sikora, PhD, offers advice for parents with kids who are anxious about returning to the classroom this fall. Topic Infectious Diseases How Scenes from A Clint Eastwood Western Are Helping Researchers Better Understand Schizophrenia August 11, 2021 With the help of brain imaging and a clip from the “The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,” Columbia psychiatrists have discovered a part of the human brain necessary for understanding social interactions. Topic Mental Health What to Do About Self-Care Fatigue March 19, 2021 Columbia psychiatrist Lourival Baptista-Neto, MD, has tips for overcoming self-care fatigue and what to do when you're feeling overwhelmed. Topic Campus News Diversity and Severity of Autism Symptoms Linked to Mutation Locations December 22, 2020 In children with certain autism mutations, the diversity and severity of symptoms are often related to the identity and properties of gene units, called exons, targeted by the mutations. Topic Genetics Study Finds Evidence of Neurobiological Mechanism for Hallucinations and Delusions November 20, 2020 Columbia researchers have found a potential neurobiological mechanism for hallucinations and delusions that fits within the hierarchical model of psychosis and can explain their clinical presentation. Topic Mental Health In NYC Foster Care, One in Three Youths Identify as LGBTQAI+ November 13, 2020 A third of youths in New York City foster care identify as LGBTQAI+, finds a study by Columbia researcher Theo Sandfort. But why so many gender diverse youths end up in foster care is unclear. Topic Campus News “One of Us” Offers Solutions on Physician Suicide September 21, 2020 A panel discussion held in observance of National Physician Suicide Awareness Day on Sept. 17 highlighted the legacy of Dr. Lorna Breen and the ongoing fight to curb physician suicide. Topic Campus News Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top