COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Kansas Qualified Admissions Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Qualified admissions are a set of standards used by the six state universities in Kansas to review applicants for undergraduate admission. These standards are set by the Kansas Board of Regents, the governing body for Kansas universities. Requirements Students from Kansas high schools must complete the precollege or Kansas Scholars curriculum with at least a 2.00 GPA. Students from other states must complete the precollege curriculum with at least a 2.50 GPA. AND Achieve one of the following: ACT score of 21 or higher; OR minimum combined SAT-I score of 980 or higher (taken before Feb. 1, 2016) or 1080 or higher (taken after Feb. 1, 2016); OR Graduate in the top one-third of their class AND If applicable, achieve a 2.00 GPA or higher on any college courses taken while in high school. Admission Exceptions Students who do not meet these standards will be considered for admission on a case-by-case basis. Some students may be asked to send additional information and documentation. Kansas Qualified Admissions Pre-College Curriculum Please note: Common course names are listed below. Many more courses are approved. Full course listings are available at kansasregents.org/qualified_admissions. English 4 approved units of English, one unit taken each year of high school, 1/2 unit may be Speech Natural Science 3 approved units from the following, one must be Chemistry or Physics: Biology, Advanced Biology (2nd Year), Earth Science, Environmental Science, Aerospace, Marine Science, Botany, Microbiology, Geology, Astronomy, Chemistry, Physics, Principles of Technology, Physical Science, Meteorology, Genetics, Zoology Math 3 approved units from the following: Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II, any course with Algebra II as a prerequisite AND students must obtain a 22 math subscore on the ACT OR 540 (before Feb. 1, 2016) or 540 (after Feb. 1, 2016) on the SAT to meet the college readiness benchmark. Dual enrollment, concurrent enrollment and online courses may be used to fulfill the requirement. Courses completed in middle school/junior high do NOT fulfill the requirement. OR 4 approved units, with one unit taken in the graduating year. Three units selected from the following: Algebra I, Geometry, Algebra II, any course with Algebra II as a prerequisite. The fourth unit may be prescribed by the school district and must be designed to prepare the student for college. Social Science 3 approved units that include instruction in: U.S. History, U.S. Government, Geography, Psychology, Sociology. Students meeting the Kansas State Department of Education social science graduation requirements generally fulfill the pre-college curriculum social science requirements. Electives 3 approved units from the following: English, Math, Natural Science, Social Science, Fine Arts, Journalism, Computer/Information Systems, Foreign Languages, Personal Finance, Speech/Debate/Forensics, Career and Technical Education 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©