Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Faculty Recruitment and Retention Faculty Recruitment Programs Brown uses multiple recruitment strategies toward the goal of achieving greater diversity among its faculty. The Office of Institutional Diversity partners with every department undertaking a faculty search in order to assure that the most active and aggressive measures are taken to identify and attract diverse applicant pools and that all candidates are treated equitably and fairly in the process. As Brown is also in the process of expanding the size of its faculty, we use the availability of new positions and flexible recruitment strategies through a target of opportunity program to further enhance our diversity recruitment efforts. Guide to Diversifying Faculty Searches Faculty Jobs Bio-Med Faculty Jobs Advance Program Funded by a 5-year grant from the National Science Foundation, the ADVANCE Program at Brown University seeks to increase the retention and advancement of women faculty in science and engineering by making available those mechanisms that promote career success for all faculty scientists—mechanisms including mentoring, grant seeking support, and tools for becoming leaders in academic and scientific communities. We also strive to transform the institution by utilizing the social science literature on gender equity in resources provided to department chairs and administrators in order to ensure the retention and advancement of women and minority scientists. ADVANCE at Brown awards grants for research and professional development, sponsors seminars and public lectures, provides sponsored project support and networking resources that enhance opportunities for collaboration. Course Development Funds Grant support is available to help faculty develop new courses or revise existing courses in ways that promote strategic initiatives. A full list of grants is available on the Dean of the College website. Sophomore Seminars This curricular initiative funds new courses focused on social justice, identity, and difference. Faculty are encouraged to propose courses that bring together ideas, perspectives, and approaches that are not normally seen side by side in a give course or program. Approved courses are eligible for up to $4,000 in course development funds based on a submitted budget. Download more information about the Sophomore Seminar Program Research Brown's Office of the Vice President for Research provides assistance in developing diversity plans in grant proposals. Exchange Programs Brown has partnerships with Tougaloo College and Keio University. Tougaloo College, Tougaloo, Mississippi Visit the partnership website for more information. Keio University, Campuses in Mita, Hiyoshi, Yagami, Shinanomachi, Shonan Fujisawa, Shiba-Kyoritsu, and Tsuruoka Japan Contact the Dean of the Faculty for more information. More Information Policies Title IX Related Resources Faculty Search Guide Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat