Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Academics People Research News & Events CAREERS “Clemson IE is committed to advancing state-of-the-art industrial engineering research and degree programs. Our innovative and challenging curricula are designed to meet the ever-increasing global demand for industrial engineering graduates.” Kevin Taaffe, Department Chair Follow Us on Social Media Department Spotlights Kapil Chalil Madathil wins NSF Grant Tuesday April 12, 2022 Dr. Tanju Karanfil (Environmental Engineering) and Dr. Kapil Chalil Madathil (Industrial Engineering) received an NSF grant to support water treatment operations. Empirical studies will determine the efficacy of mixed reality technology to support the training needs of water treatment technicians. Multiple Seed Grants obtained by Industrial Engineering faculty for 2022-2023 Tuesday April 12, 2022 Recently, as many as 6 IE faculty were either principal investigators (PIs) or co-PIs on several seed grants awarded for the 2022-2023 cycle through Clemson University’s partnership with Prisma Health. IE endowment co-founder Karen Lindenmeyer passes Thursday April 07, 2022 Karen Lindenmeyer passed away in early February. Karen Lindenmeyer, who was an IE faculty member for years, will have an endowment in her honor that provides funding for the Lindenmeyer Leadership and Public Service Award. MORE NEWS IE Spotlights Persia Ghotbi-Taheri "Once I set foot on campus, I just knew it was the perfect place for me." Persia, now an industrial engineering major at Clemson, is making the most of her time on campus by supporting her peers. She is serving a year as president of the Clemson chapter of the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE). More Info» Eliza Macaulay "Placed first in the IISE Mid-Atlantic Regional Conference technical paper competition." Eliza Macaulay, a junior in the Industrial Engineering department at Clemson University, placed first in the Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE) Mid-Atlantic Regional Conference technical paper competition for her paper titled “Understanding the Vulnerabilities of Youth to Sex Trading in Minnesota Districts.” More Info» Dr. Yongjia Song "Awarded prestigious NSF Career" Dr. Yongjia Song has received the prestigious NSF Career Award for his grant titled "An Adaptive Stochastic Look-ahead Framework for Disaster Relief Logistics under Forecast Uncertainty". More Info» Top News Apr 28 Health Sciences Center at Prisma Health awards Clemson grants for research on cancer treatment, genetics, patient care and more Read More Apr 28 Top students honored by College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Apr 26 SMART scholarship opens door for Camden Brady to return to Clemson University Read More Apr 25 Kevin Taaffe recognized as outstanding leader in industrial and systems engineering Read More Copyright © Clemson University Department of Industrial Engineering | Freeman Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-4716 | Email Us