Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Radcliffe Fellowship Toggle information Close detail panel Tina Tallon applied her suite of talents to a book and a chamber opera as a 2020–2021 fellow. Photo by Rose Lincoln The Fellowship Program annually selects and supports artists, scholars, and practitioners who bring both a record of achievement and exceptional promise to the Institute. Radcliffe fellows are individuals at different stages of their careers who come to the Institute from across the United States and around the world and represent a broad range of academic, professional, and artistic fields. Fellows work on an individual project—a novel, a film, a map of the Milky Way—while mining and deepening the knowledge, ingenuity, and talent of the Harvard University community. Projects range from the poetic to the cosmic. Past fellows include Jill Lepore, Samantha Power, Zadie Smith, Elizabeth Warren, and the Nobel Laureate Michael Kremer. Become a Fellow Graduate Student Fellowships Radcliffe Research Partnerships Meet Our 2021–2022 Fellows 01 / 09 Slide left Slide right Elizabeth A. Baker Corey Byrnes David Cheng Chang Jorge Ignacio Cortiñas David Dominique Evan P. Economo W. Ralph Eubanks Nancy L. Rose Scott Manning Stevens See All 2021–2022 Fellows Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows The Harvard Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program offers scholars and practitioners in the humanities, sciences, social sciences, and arts—as well as writers, journalists, and others—a rare opportunity to pursue their work in a vibrant interdisciplinary community. From robotic fish to a novel-in-progress inspired by Amelia Earhart, the 2022–2023 class of fellows will come from 14 countries to pursue an incredible range of important projects. Read Full Announcement Spring 2021 Radcliffe Magazine 01 / 10 Slide left Slide right A Fact is No Match for a Martian From Math to Polymath Wonders Never Cease Streets of Fire Lessons in Empathy, and Mourning Crystal Z Campbell’s Haunted Creations Newsmakers: Spring 2021 The Story of His Life Flash of Genius On Juneteenth, a Texan Feels at Home I absolutely loved my Radcliffe experience! I really, truly can't explain how life-changing it was for me. There were so many interactions with others that fed my work in myriad ways—many of which (I'm sure) are not even apparent to me at the moment but will be gradually revealed over time. I'm so incredibly grateful for my time here at Radcliffe. ZZ Packer 2014–2015 Lillian Gollay Knafel Fellow and writer We had the freedom to push toward a deep understanding of our subjects. That’s one of the things the Radcliffe Institute does best: It allows for room to grow. As we presented our work and learned about one another's projects, there was a sense of self-consciousness falling away, a developing sense of play and exploration, a sense of listening, of interest across genres and across fields, one that introduced creative energy into everyone’s work. Julie Orringer 2013–2014 Lisa Goldberg Fellow and fiction writer The Radcliffe Fellowship Program is by far the most intellectually stimulating experience I have had in my decade at Harvard. Edo Berger 2019–2020 Mildred Londa Weisman Fellow and a professor of astronomy at Harvard 01 / 03 Slide left Slide right Harvard Gazette Coverage 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right Spotted at Radcliffe: A Brain Exploding into Rainbows When the US Healthcare System Met the Comic Book Solving Disparities in Policing Making Higher Education Antiracist Uncovering an Ancient World The Good, Bad, and Scary of the Internet of Things Facing the Denial of American Racism More from the Gazette Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College