Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Southern Journal of Philosophy A forum for the expression of philosophical ideas written from all philosophical perspectives, including both the analytic and continental traditions, as well as the history of philosophy. The Spindel Conference Funded by an endowment from the late Murray Spindel, the annual Spindel Conference is organized around a topic of philosophical interest bringing together leading scholars working in that area. PreviousNext Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Nationally Ranked # 4 GreatValueColleges.net Most Affordable Online Bachelor’s in Philosophy View All Rankings Home Philosophy About the Department of Philosophy The Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis is committed to providing students, the profession of philosophy, and the community with innovative and high-quality educational programs, scholarship, and service, which enhance the development of philosophy as a discipline and the quality of the local, as well as global, intellectual environment. Overview As part of the University's General Education Program, the Department strives to imbue students with skills required for critical thinking and problem solving and an appreciation of their human and cultural heritage. At the BA level, we introduce students to subdivisions within the discipline. At the MA level, the emphasis is on specific and applied aspects of the subdivisions which prepare graduates to continue the study of philosophy and enhance their intellectual lives. The PhD program trains professional philosophers who produce high-quality scholarly work and are able to teach courses not only in their specialty but also a wide variety of basic courses. Pluralism A schism between Continental philosophy and analytic philosophy has divided the American philosophical community for several decades. That this schism has been detrimental to the discipline is now widely recognized, and the Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis is one of several philosophy departments around the country that seeks to engender an appreciation of both traditions in our students. The history of philosophy is an important component of our program because it serves as the common language of the two traditions. Our high level of research productivity and conscientious training of students also contribute to the vitality of the Department and the profession. Diversity In addition to overcoming the divergence between the Continental and analytic traditions, the Department of Philosophy at the University of Memphis seeks to cultivate inclusiveness (notably, in terms of race and gender) in all facets of the Department. Since feminist philosophy and race theory are areas of philosophy where the boundaries separating analytic and continental philosophy are regularly crossed, we have found that our commitments to philosophical pluralism and to diversity complement one another. Adopting this kind of inclusive stance in which a plurality of philosophical methodologies and styles are respected and encouraged is the centerpiece of the University of Memphis program. It is evident in the curriculum and in the research and scholarly activities of the faculty. The Department's achievements in cultivating an inclusive and pluralistic environment constitute one of its unique features. These successes have been recognized across the global philosophical community, and we have been gratified to see other programs emulate our practices and aspirations. We encourage applications from students who share these interests in pluralism and diversity. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.