Florida State University Florida State University Search Faculty & Staff Directory Web Departments & Services Facilities Home Departments Submit A Request Links Reports Contacts Estimate/Project Request Building Portal COVID-19 Facilities Employee of the Month Honoring and appreciating individuals who consistently achieve excellence and exceed expectations. Visit Site Facilities Team of the Month Celebrating cross unit collaboration and spotlighting the synergy that comes from working together Visit Site Facilities Design Facilities' Design team is responsible for designing all construction, renovation and restoration projects on all of our campuses. Visit Site Facilities Build Facilities' Construction team is responsible for building all new construction, renovation, and restoration projects on all of our campuses. Visit Site Facilities Maintain Facilities' Maintenance team provides world class maintenance, repair and construction services to the Florida State University community. Visit Site Announcements Facilities in Focus - Coming Soon! F&A Award Winners from Facilities Facilities Job Opportunities Campus Master Plan 2020-30 Adoption Schedule Sandels Response Interactive Map of Campus Campus Accessibility Map Our Mission: The mission of the Facilities Department is to envision, create, maintain, and manage an optimum physical environment at Florida State University. We will do this by being considerate of and concerned for our customers' needs, responsive to their requests, and good stewards of the resources that are entrusted to us. With an emphasis on quality service and sustainability, we plan, design, construct, renovate, clean and maintain university facilities and grounds. Our staff is responsible for the day-to-day operations of buildings, grounds and utilities systems. While providing 24-hour service to our students, faculty, staff and visitors, we strive to meet current and evolving needs of the university and ensure a safe, healthy and attractive environment. We're here to serve you! Our Presence is Known We employ nearly 700 people who manage over 1,600 acres Over 8.1 million square feet of E&G university space Over 14.5 million total gross square feet (E&G & Non-E&G space) Over 400 buildings Need to Submit a Request? Select the appropriate request below. Key & Lock Shop Click here to submit a building access key request to the Key & Lock Shop or call 850-644-9612 Service Request Click here to report an issue or submit a routine service request to the Service Center. For emergency service requests, please call us 24/7 at 850-644-2424. Virtual Vault Click here to submit a Facilities access request to the Virtual Vault Request Center. Florida State University Facilities Department Mendenhall Bldg A (MMA) 969 Learning Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Mail Code: 4158 Facilities Webmaster Report Website Issue Privacy Policy Copyright Phone: 850-644-3369 Fax: 850-644-6946 Campus Map