Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Economics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Economics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Economics Understand social behavior and business conduct from an economist’s perspective with the Bachelor of Arts in Economics in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. This 123-credit undergraduate degree program helps you think critically and logically about the economy. The Economics Major curriculum emphasizes using an orderly way of thinking about—and solving—problems that can arise when making choices in situations that are beyond your direct experience. Coursework helps you gain the abstract reasoning and problem-solving skills used in economics. You’ll study economic aspects of current events and public policy, microeconomic and macroeconomic analyses, economics in the context of specific sectors of the economy or economic dilemmas, global economic issues and more. Students are well-positioned for careers in both public and private sectors, including careers in business, consulting, government, health sciences, international relations, public policy and more. Choosing Between Temple’s Economics Degrees Temple University offers three unique economics undergraduate degrees, each with a clear focus and tailored for specific career outcomes. In addition to the Economics Major, Temple offers the following economics degree programs. The Bachelor of Arts in Mathematical Economics in the College of Science and Technology specializes in the mathematical approach to economics. This program is ideal for students interested in pursuing graduate studies in economics, finance and other disciplines that require equal grounding in economics and mathematics. The Bachelor of Business Administration in Economics in the Fox School of Business is ideal for students interested in acquiring a general business background with specialized exposure to economics. This major prepares students for management roles in both the public and private sectors. Classes & Curriculum Courses offered in the Economics BA degree program include the following. Econometrics The Economics of Education and Human Capital Economics Inequality The Economics of Sports International Monetary Economics International Trade Students are required to complete a senior capstone project through the Economics in Writing Seminar course. Learn more about the Economics BA curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Economics MA Economics PhD Certificate Programs The College of Liberal Arts has 22 undergraduate certificate programs for you to expand your knowledge and diversify your Temple education. Certificates can complement bachelor's programs, allowing you to specialize in an area and highlight your exposure to disciplines outside of your major. +1 Accelerated Degree Programs Temple offers 10 accelerated +1 Accelerated Degree programs. Eligible undergraduate students can use up to 12 specified graduate credits approved by the College of Liberal Arts to fulfill requirements for their undergraduate degree. Students apply for graduate degree programs in their junior year. Students earn a BA or BS degree upon successful completion of their fourth year. At the end of their fifth year, students earn an MA or MS degree. Learn more about accelerated programs in the College of Liberal Arts. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $16,488.00 per year Out-of-state: $29,712.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contacts For questions regarding the Economics Major, contact the following staff member. Belinda Wilson is the administrator in the Economics Department. Phone: 215-204-0472 Email: bwilson@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Economics Department. William Stull is the chair of the Economics Department. Email: stull@temple.edu Moritz Ritter is the director of undergraduate studies. Phone: 215-204-5029 Email: moritz.ritter@temple.edu Janice Vincent is the coordinator in the Economics Department. Phone: 215-204-8880 Email: jvincent@temple.edu University Honors Program The College of Liberal Arts participates in Temple’s Honors Program. Learn more about the program and how to be admitted. Students who meet certain academic and extracurricular criteria may become members of the following honor societies. Alpha Lambda Delta is a national society that honors academic excellence during a student's first year at college. Golden Key is an international society that enables members to realize their potential through the advancement of academics, leadership and service. Phi Beta Kappa is open to juniors and seniors in the College of Liberal Arts. To qualify for Phi Beta Kappa, a student must maintain a high grade point average in a broad, rigorous program of study in the liberal arts, including mathematics and foreign languages. Learn more about Temple’s Honor Societies. Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your College of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your undergraduate experience at Temple with more than 300 student clubs and organizations. You’ll have opportunities to meet and network with other students, get involved with the community, grow your interests, and develop résumé-boosting skills and experiences. The Temple Economics Society is a student professional organization committed to offering students the opportunity to gain a better understanding of economics, while providing a forum for discussion of specific issues of interest and the exploration of future career possibilities. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away College of Liberal Arts undergraduate students are encouraged to study away for an academic year, semester or summer. Enrich your Temple experience by immersing yourself in new cultures, histories and perspectives in countries such as China, Germany, Ghana and Italy, as well as at Temple’s Rome and Tokyo campuses. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-ECON-BA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Economics Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info