Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University News Service Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Releases Video Resources Broadcast studio Campus images Faculty, staff headshots More News Inside Iowa State Employee announcements Student announcements Campus news Change agents The Conversation Futurity Contact us Iowa State University will lead new, national institute to fight antimicrobial resistance Posted Jul 25, 2018 3:34 pm AMES, Iowa – The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities and the Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges this morning (July 26) announced Iowa State University will lead a national institute addressing a global public health concern: antimicrobial resistance. Each year in the U.S., at least 2 million people become infected with bacteria resistant to antibiotics, and 23,000 people die as a direct result of these infections. Many more die from other conditions complicated by an antibiotic-resistant infection, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. These drug-resistant “superbugs” also harm the ecosystem and cost multibillions annually in medical costs and economic losses. Iowa State will be home to the new Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education, aimed at improving health for people, animals and the environment. The institute stems from recommendations by a joint AAVMC/APLU task force, which authored a 2015 report outlining an array of research and education initiatives to address antimicrobial resistance. The institute will help coordinate and implement those recommendations at universities and veterinary medical colleges across the country. Institute builds on existing partnership Iowa State and its partners began to address some of these same problems three years ago through the Antimicrobial Resistance Consortium, a research initiative that has involved nearly every ISU college, the USDA Agricultural Research Service, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, University of Nebraska Medical Center, the University of Iowa, Mayo Clinic and a team of more than 100 researchers, educators, clinicians and extension personnel. Iowa State will provide office space and IT support for the institute, which will be jointly funded by ISU and the University of Nebraska at $525,000 per year for three years ($1.575 million total investment). “Antimicrobial resistance touches each of us in our daily lives. This new institute provides a great resource for the entire country as we work to build strong, collaborative research and educational programs to mitigate this risk,” said Paul Plummer, associate professor of veterinary diagnostic and production animal medicine at Iowa State. Plummer directed the AMR Consortium and will serve as executive director of the Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education. “Iowa State is honored to be selected for this critically important institute devoted to tackling antimicrobial resistance through an integrative, One Health approach,” said Iowa State University Vice President for Research Sarah Nusser. “We are grateful to our partner organizations throughout the Midwest for their collaboration in developing the Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education proposal, and we look forward to building new partnerships across the country as the institute grows to form a national consortium.” Key leadership Along with Plummer, institute leadership will include: Rodney Moxley, Charles Bessey Professor of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at the University of Nebraska Kenneth Bayles, vice chancellor of basic research and professor of pathology and microbiology at the University of Nebraska Medical Center Christine Petersen, associate professor and director of the Center for Emerging Infectious Diseases at the University of Iowa. Petersen will coordinate involvement of participants from the University of Iowa College of Public Health and College of Medicine. Robin Patel, chair of the Division of Clinical Microbiology, director of the Bacteriology Laboratory, and director of the Infectious Diseases Research Laboratory, Mayo Clinic. The partners’ proposal for the institute was selected from among nine submitted by major universities from throughout the nation. Contacts Sarah Nusser, Vice President for Research, 515-294-1785, nusser@iastate.edu Paul Plummer, Veterinary Diagnostic and Production Animal Medicine, 515-294-8522, pplummer@iastate.edu John McCarroll, University Relations, 515-294-6137, jmccarol@iastate.edu Deb Fiddelke, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 402-472-0296, deb.fiddelke@unl.edu Bill O'Neill, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 402-559-9152, woneill@unmc.edu Tom Snee, University of Iowa Office of Media Relations, 319-384-0010, tom-snee@uiowa.edu Frequently asked questions The Association of Public and Land-grant Universities and the Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges have developed the following background on antimicrobial resistance and the reasons why the Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education was established. Quick look Iowa State will lead a national institute to address a global public health concern. The new Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education builds upon a partnership with the USDA Agricultural Research Service, the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, University of Nebraska Medical Center, the University of Iowa, Mayo Clinic and many other researchers, educators, clinicians and extension personnel. APLU and AAVMC announced the institute, which stems from a recommendation by a joint task force. The Institute for Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education will be housed at Iowa State and funded by ISU and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. Strategic Relations and Communications News Service 2420 Lincoln Way, Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 news@iastate.edu 515-294-8986 phone Facebook @iowastateunews @iowastateu YouTube Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...