Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Aggie Parents and Family Student Orientation and Transition Services Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Aggie Parents and FamilyOpen main menu Close Open search Home Events Close Events Parent & Family Weekend Parent Orientation Academic Calendar University Catalog Tips Close Tips FAQ Thrive Resources Close Resources Aggie Parent & Family Podcast Leave of Absence & Deferment Health & Safety Resources Media Campus Resources Parent Handbook Close Parent Handbook Overview Table of Contents Student Services Resources Parent Handbook PDF News About Close About Mission Academic Advising Academic Policies Student Privacy and FERPA About Logan and Cache Valley About USU Contact Us Parent & Family Network Sign-up Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Aggie Parents and Family The USU Parent & Family Programs Mission is to serve families through programming designed to equip parents with resources they need to help their student succeed at Utah State University. We do this by providing Parent Orientation, Parent Publications & Podcasts, and Deferment & Notification of Leave Outreach. We provide parents and families with these resources to promote student success and independence at any stage in their student’s academic career at Utah State University. We'd Love To Talk If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at (435)-797-7557 or email orientation@usu.edu Schedule a Zoom or Phone Appointment Parent & Family Weekend Parent & Family Podcast Parent Orientation Parent Tips Spanish Speaking Parent Orientation As your student attends an Aggie Info Session this summer, please join us for our Spanish Speaking Parent Orientation where you will hear directly from university administrators and learn how you can best assist your student this Fall 2022 semester. The goal of the Speaking Parent Orientation is to help accommodate our parents and incoming students who are more comfortable asking questions in Spanish. This year our Spanish Speaking Parent orientation will be held in August TBA in the TSC Ballroom. The event consists of a boxed take home dinner, a few presentations, and an information fair, where parents and students can ask questions and get information. Spanish Speaking Parent Orientation Aggie Parent & Family Network Use the Aggie Parent & Family Network to find helpful information about your student's University experience. Notification of Leave & Deferment The Notification of Leave Office assists undergraduate students who wish to take a break from their studies for one or more semesters (other than summer semester), for a variety of reasons. Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page