Department of Neuroscience Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences Retreat - April 27, 2016 Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences Retreat, Poster Session - April 27, 2016 Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences Retreat - April 27, 2016 Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences/Neuroscience Graduate Group Holiday Party GFP expressing neurons in the absence (left) or presence (right) of an E2F1 RNA ligand. Courtesy of Kelly Jordan-Sciutto. Home People ↓ Primary Faculty Research Faculty Emeritus Faculty Secondary Faculty Adjunct Faculty Administration Research Positions & Jobs ↓ Faculty & Academic Support Positions Postdoctoral Research Position Training News & Events ↓ News Events Links ↓ Neuroscience Resources Neuroscience Institutes, Programs & Centers at Penn Neuroscience Related Seminars Black Lives Matter Welcome to Penn Neuroscience Welcome to the Department of Neuroscience, located in the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. Our mission is to advance understanding of the nervous system through basic and translational research and to train the next generation of neuroscientists and physicians. Our research interests are wide-ranging and include understanding the development of neurons and neural circuitry; exploring how neural circuits function; defining disease processes that compromise neural performance; and explaining the behavior of organisms from a molecular, cellular, and systems perspective. We address these issues in both vertebrate and invertebrate model systems using techniques drawn from every major biological discipline. View MINS Neurosciences Calendar Open Positions & Jobs Neuroscience Postdoctoral Open Positions: NIH/NIDA T32 Translational Addiction Research Fellowship Events More Events » Amita Sehgal Named 2021 SRBR Pioneer November 30, 2021 The Society for Research on Biological Rhythms launched the Pioneer program to recognize scientists who… John Dani wins MERIT Award October 18, 2021 The Neuroscience Chair/MINS Director won a MERIT Award from NIH NIDA for a research grant. Contact Us Department of Neuroscience Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 415 Curie Blvd Philadelphia, PA 19104 Fax: (215) 573-0833 (215) 898-8754 Email Us Links of Interest Home Mahoney Institute for Neurosciences Neuroscience Graduate Group Penn Medicine Translational Neuroscience Center (PTNC) Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.