Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Simmons About Simmons About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Academics Academics Applied Physiology and Sports Management Dispute Resolution Counseling Education Policy and Leadership Graduate Liberal Studies Ph.D. Teacher Education Programs & Degrees Fall 2021 Graduate Student Orientation Our Faculty Our Faculty Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Research Research Research Projects Archive 2020-21: Research Snapshot Research Resources Virtual Reality Surgery Simulator (VRSS) Integrative Physiology Laboratory CORE Locomotor Performance Laboratory Research in Mathematics Education Center for VR Learning Innovation Youth Sports Impact Partnership Faculty Research Publications and Presentations Dallas Noyce: A Community-Focused Mathematics Teacher Pipeline Technology and Education Cluster Community Engagement Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute College Access Programs The Budd Center: Involving Communities in Education Institute for Leadership Impact Center for Family Counseling Project Connect West Dallas STEM-Focused School Alumni ☰ Faculty and Administrative Openings SMU Simmons: Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation Simmons About Simmons Faculty and Administrative Openings The Simmons School of Education and Human Development invites applications for tenure-track and non-tenure-track faculty positions in its Technology and Education Cluster, Department of Teaching and Learning, Department of Education Policy and Leadership, Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness, Department of Counseling and Dispute Resolution, and Area of Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution. Brief overviews of the Simmons School, the University, and the City of Dallas follow the position announcements. Technology and Education Cluster Rank/Title: Professor in Technology-Enhanced Immersive Learning Position Numbers: 53260, 53590, and 53653 (3 positions) Rank/Title: Assistant Professor in Psychological Science Position Number: 06284 Southern Methodist University (SMU), a nationally-ranked, private, non-sectarian research institution located in one of the nation’s largest and fastest growing metropolitan areas announces four tenure-track faculty positions in the technology-enhanced immersive learning cluster. These positions are at the rank of Full Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in areas that include learning sciences, artificial intelligence/machine learning and technology-enhanced learning, assessment and behavior change, prevention and treatment of psychological disorders, and cognitive and affective processes. These positions are available as soon as the fall of 2022. These positions are designed to enhance SMU’s Technology & Education Cluster with internationally recognized strengths in video game development, game-based and immersive learning, the use of immersive technologies for assessment, behavior change and social emotional learning, literacy, special education, bilingual/ESL education, urban education, STEM, data science and artificial intelligence/machine learning. SMU faculty are well funded and benefit from a host of resources dedicated to facilitating interdisciplinary work across the University including at SMU Guildhall, Dedman College Interdisciplinary Institute, AT&T Center for Virtualization, Family Research Center, and the Center for VR Learning Innovation. SMU hosts powerful high-performance computing facilities with computational ability of 630 teraflops, 11,088 CPU cores, 116.5 TB of total memory with no usage fee for research and education purposes. SMU is also currently making appointments the Earth Hazards and National Security, and expects to launch a Data Sciences cluster in the coming year. These cluster hires represent SMU’s ambitious focus on increasing the university’s research impact by developing larger-scale collaborative research projects responding to some of humankind’s most daunting challenges. Position Numbers 53260 (Full), 53590 (Associate), & 53653 (Assistant) Professor in Technology-Enhanced Immersive Learning We seek candidates at all levels with experience investigating or applying technology in education and the design of research that has substantial social impact, including: (1) immersive learning, instruction, and assessment using augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, motion capture and game-based learning technologies or (2) artificial intelligence and machine learning tin educational scenarios to improve learning and/or increase the scalability of instructional practices. These positions will have primary appointments at the Simmons School of Education & Human Development. Applicants for positions 53653, 53590, and 53260 must submit their CVs, statement of teaching and research interests, and three letters of recommendation via Interfolio: Full Professor, Technology-Enhanced Immersive Learning (http://apply.interfolio.com/97693) Associate Professor, Technology-Enhanced Immersive Learning (http://apply.interfolio.com/97694) Assistant Professor, Technology-Enhanced Immersive Learning (http://apply.interfolio.com/97695) Position No. 06284 – Assistant Professor in Psychological Science We seek candidates with experience investigating or applying technology: (1) in research examining psychological processes related to technology-enhanced instruction, learning, or assessment that has a substantial social impact, or (2) in research designed to enhance scientific understanding of the development or maintenance of psychological phenomena or important social problems, or (3) in research on the assessment, prevention, and/or treatment of psychopathology symptoms, health conditions or social problems. The specific form of technology being used is open, but examples with significant potential to enhance and expand SMU capacity in this area include the application of immersive learning technologies to improve learning or facilitate behavior change and artificial intelligence/machine learning to enhance instruction, learning, assessment or intervention. This position will have a primary appointment in the Department of Psychology at the Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences. Applicants for position 06284 must submit their CV, statement of teaching and research interests, three letters of recommendation via Interfolio: Assistant Professor, Psychology (http://apply.interfolio.com/97696) Application Process Review of applications will begin January 31, 2022. To ensure full consideration for these positions, the application must be received by January 31, 2022, but the committee will continue to accept applications until the positions are filled. A Ph.D. is required at the time of appointment. The committee will notify applicants of its employment decisions after the position is filled. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. SMU researchers are part of an inclusive and intellectually vibrant community of internationally recognized scholars across the humanities, social sciences, mathematical sciences, engineering, and business with a demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity and inclusiveness. SMU offers excellent benefits including full same-sex domestic partner benefits. Explore SMU at http://www.smu.edu. Faculty positions in the Technology & Education Cluster will receive academic appointments at SMU’s Simmons School of Education and Human Development and/or the Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences. Through excellence in research, teaching, and community outreach, the SMU Simmons School of Education and Human Development is a catalyst for discovery and innovation that transforms social conditions and advances human potential. It is among the top 15 ranked private schools of education in the United States and among the top 3 of public and private schools of education in Texas. Find out more at https://www.smu.edu/Simmons. The Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences connects students with forward thinkers and global problem solvers through interdisciplinary education and partnerships that begin here, at the heart of the SMU campus, and extend globally. Its faculty address the world's challenges and create new knowledge through advanced cutting-edge research that drives technological change, policy solutions and answers to humankind's abiding questions. Learn more about Dedman College at https://www.smu.edu/Dedman. The City of Dallas is one of the nation’s most cosmopolitan commercial and cultural centers, and the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex is the fourth largest in the US. A great many publicly traded corporations are headquartered in DFW, with nine Fortune 500 companies based within Dallas. The DFW airport was the fourth-busiest airport in the world in 2020, and travel to nearly anywhere in the world is extremely convenient, often by direct flight. Dallas’ quality of life is exceptional, with a relatively low cost of living and a variety of housing options from high-rise, urban apartments to country-style single-family homes. A full range of professional sports teams, popular to highbrow music venues, a lively and innovative restaurant scene, and more make Dallas an extremely livable city. Department of Teaching and Learning Rank/Title: Associate/Full Professor / Department Chair Position Number: 52065 Rank/Title: Associate Professor of Bilingual Education/ESL Position Number: 53450 Position No. 52065 – Associate/Full Professor & Department Chair The Simmons School of Education & Human Development invites applications for a tenured Full Professor / Department Chair position in the Department of Teaching and Learning. Qualified applicants may also be considered for the Mary Elizabeth Holdsworth Endowed Professor in Simmons. Distinguished candidates at the rank of associate professor with tenure may also be considered, if eligible to assume the rank of professor pending the approval of the appropriate university officials. This is a unique opportunity to join and to shape a vibrant research and teacher education community situated in an increasingly diverse and globally connected university. For more information about the current research projects at the Simmons School, please visit https://www.smu.edu/simmons/Research/Projects. The Department Chair will support ongoing efforts towards equity and inclusion, advance the quality and reputation of the programs within the department, and build on the collaborative and supportive culture for faculty, staff, and students. We welcome candidates from all backgrounds. We are especially interested in candidates whose scholarly work focuses on one or more of the following areas: pre-K-12 education, STEM education, urban education, learning sciences equity or social justice in education, reading and writing education, or special education. Required qualifications include: (a) an earned doctorate in an education-related field aligned with Teaching and Learning; (b) an ongoing record of scholarly work commensurate with rank of full professor with tenure; (c) demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity and inclusiveness; (d) demonstrated administrative and leadership ability developed through prior experiences in administering centers, large grants, or interdisciplinary programs; (e) excellence in teaching undergraduate and/or graduate courses; (f) evidence of ongoing service to national professional organizations; and d) a track record of obtaining external funding for research. Preferred qualifications include: (a) experience developing and/or sustaining collaborative partnerships and interdisciplinary initiatives; (b) leadership experience within higher education, such as serving in administrative positions such as department chair or program director; (c) two or more years of teaching experience working in Pre-K-12 contexts; (e) demonstrated mentorship of doctoral students and junior faculty, and (f) experience serving in leadership roles in national professional organizations, grant review panels, or major editorial roles in the field of education. Application Process Review of applications will begin on November 30, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Reference the position number 00052065 on all documents submitted for application: (1) cover letter outlining research, teaching, and administrative experience and highlighting the candidate’s demonstrable commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion; (2) curriculum vitae; (3) copies of two representative scholarly publications; and (4) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted electronically through Interfolio http://apply.interfolio.com/96801. For questions about the search submission process, contact Paula Serna at pserna@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Dr. Stephanie Al Otaiba and Dr. Francesca Go, Search Committee Co-Chairs, salotaiba@smu.edu; fjones@smu.edu. Additional search committee members include Dr. Johnitha Watkins Johnson, Dr. Amy Gillespie Rouse, Dr. Candace Walkington and Dr. Quentin Sedlacek. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is Summer 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. Position No. 53450 – Associate Professor of Bilingual Education/ESL The Simmons School of Education & Human Development invites applications for a tenured position at the Associate Professor level in bilingual education or English as a second language in the Department of Teaching and Learning. This is a unique opportunity to join a vibrant research and teacher education community. For more information about Simmons School research, please visit https://www.smu.edu/simmons/Research/Projects. Responsibilities include teaching, research, and service. The successful candidate will be expected to engage in graduate education by teaching two courses or the equivalent each semester, as well as maintain an active research agenda, which includes seeking external research funding. We are especially interested in candidates whose scholarly work is at the intersection of bilingual education/ESL and assessment or special education. We encourage advanced Assistant Professors who have records commensurate with promotion to Associate Professor to apply. For additional information about the department programs, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/simmons/Academics/TeacherEducation. Required qualifications include: (a) earned doctorate in a bilingual education or ESL-related field; (b) demonstrated and ongoing record of scholarly work commensurate with rank of Associate Professor; (c) (f) history of obtaining or applying for external funding for research; (d) excellence in teaching graduate courses; (e) demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion; (f) experience working with culturally and linguistically diverse populations; and (g) evidence of participation or leadership in national and/or international professional organizations. Preferred qualifications include: (a) experience developing and/or sustaining collaborative partnerships and interdisciplinary initiatives; (b) multi-lingual candidates who are fluent in English and Spanish; (c) two or more years of experience working in Pre-K-12 contexts; and (d) demonstrated mentorship of doctoral students. Application Process Review of applications will begin on November 15, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Reference the position number in all documents submitted for application: (1) cover letter outlining research, teaching, and service experience; (2) curriculum vitae; (3) copies of two representative scholarly publications; and (4) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted electronically through Interfolio at: http://apply.interfolio.com/95567. For questions about the search submission process, contact Paula Serna at pserna@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Dr. Annie Wilhelm, Search Committee Chair, awilhelm@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. About the Department of Teaching and Learning The Department of Teaching and Learning represents SMU’s commitment to the professional development of educators through innovative and research-based undergraduate and graduate programs. The department’s teaching and research practices are grounded in multiple perspectives that encompass behaviorist, cognitive, social-constructivist and sociocultural approaches to scholarship. All programs serve to prepare educators who are committed to high-quality teaching and practice and who are scholars and leaders in professionalism, leaders in translating research into practice, and experts in differentiated instruction. The department’s undergraduate curriculum prepares students for initial teacher certification. The department’s graduate curricula focus on reading, teaching and learning, special education, giftedness, bilingual education, ESL, Montessori, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Two master’s degrees are offered: a Master of Bilingual Education (M.B.E.) and a Master of Education (M.Ed.). The M.B.E. includes a special education concentration and a gifted concentration. The M.Ed. is available in three formats: the traditional M.Ed. for which students must select one or two specializations, an M.Ed. in special education, and an M.Ed. for educator preparation. The Master of Music with a major in music education is offered through the Meadows School of the Arts in cooperation with the Simmons School. In addition, a variety of enrichment opportunities serve the continuing education needs of practicing educators. The Department of Teaching and Learning is heavily involved in the Simmons School’s Ph.D. program in education that combines quantitative and qualitative methodologies, generates new hypotheses, and influences pedagogical practices in early childhood (EC) through grade-12 schools. To learn more about the department, visit smu.edu/TeacherEducation. Department of Education Policy and Leadership Rank/Title: Clinical Professor Position Number: 52472 The Department of Education Policy and Leadership at Southern Methodist University (SMU) invites applications for a Clinical Professor of PK-12 Educational Leadership. This is a non-tenure track, nine-month contract, with the possibility of renewal. The successful candidate will be responsible for teaching courses in the doctorate of education (Ed.D.) and masters of education leadership programs, advising Ed.D. dissertations, working with and cultivating district and community partners, and providing service to the program and department. SMU’s Department of Education Policy & Leadership is a dynamic and collegial environment where research, policy, and practice are valued in the preparation of future leaders. Our faculty have extensive experience in both practice and research and value a diversity of expertise and experiences. The department seeks candidates whose professional experiences have prepared them to contribute positively to the department’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. We seek a collaborative colleague to join our community and be involved in all aspects of our work. SMU’s Department of Education Policy & Leadership is a dynamic and collegial environment where research, policy, and practice are valued in the preparation of future leaders. Our faculty have extensive experience in both practice and research and value a diversity of expertise and experiences. The department seeks candidates whose professional experiences have prepared them to contribute positively to the department’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. We seek a collaborative colleague to join our community and be involved in all aspects of our work. Position Requirements Earned doctorate in educational administration, leadership, policy, or related field. Hold active superintendent certification. Ability to develop and/or sustain collaborative school/district or community partnerships. Expertise serving in executive leadership roles at the school district level. Demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity and inclusiveness. Experience facilitating adult learning in informal or formal settings. Application Procedure Applicants should submit their materials online at http://apply.interfolio.com/102733. The application materials should include: A cover letter highlighting the candidate’s interest and qualifications for the position, with specific reference to: PK-12 educational leadership experiences, experiences with inter-organizational partnerships, and experiences with and approach to facilitating adult learning and mentoring others. The department encourages candidates to highlight their efforts and address their commitment to inclusivity and/or qualifications to work with diverse students, faculty, and staff. Resume or curriculum vita. The names and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances in the interview stage. For questions or to discuss the position, contact search chair, Dr. Meredith Richards (mprichards@smu.edu). The search committee will begin reviewing applications May 5, 2022 and the position will remain open until filled. The start date for the position is August 1, 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with qualifications. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. About the Department of Education Policy and Leadership The Department of Education Policy and Leadership cultivates and supports leaders and researchers who seek to improve educational outcomes and the culture of learning in schools, colleges, and educational systems through leadership development, scholarship, and service. Our department consists of five programs, Ed.D. in Educational Leadership, Ed.D. in Higher Education, M.Ed. Accelerated Leadership, M.Ed. Higher Education, and M.Ed. Urban Leadership, which are supported by sixteen faculty and two staff members. To learn more about the Simmons School, click here. The Ed.D. program in Educational Leadership for PK - Grade 12 (Pre-kindergarten-Grade 12) practitioners is designed to prepare high-level practitioner leaders in PK - Grade 12 educational organizations. The Ed.D.in Higher Education prepares high-level leaders for a variety of roles in postsecondary education settings, including two- and four-year colleges and universities, state and federal agencies, policy organizations, and foundations. The Master of Education degree in Educational Leadership is designed to prepare educational administrators in accordance with certification requirements established by the state of Texas and consistent with national standards and empirical evidence on effective school leadership knowledge and skills. The Master’s of Education degree in Higher Education is a 36 credit-hour program designed to prepare individuals to assume roles in higher education institutions and related fields in accordance with professional standards and empirical evidence on effective leadership knowledge and skills for post-secondary educational settings. The M.Ed. in Educational Leadership with a specialization in Urban School Leadership is a program born with a sense of passion and urgency in response to the leadership vacuum that often exists in struggling schools--particularly those in urban settings. The program is a joint venture between the Teaching Trust and the SMU Department of Education Policy and Leadership. Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness Rank/Title: Clinical Assistant Professor, Applied Physiology and Health Management Position Number: 52775 Rank/Title: Lecturer Position Number: 53003 Position No. 52775 – Clinical Assistant Professor The Simmons School of Education and Human Development invites applications for a non-tenure track position at the Clinical Assistant Professor level in Applied Physiology and Health Management in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness. This is a unique opportunity to join an innovative, interdisciplinary academic program. Creative energy, intellectual strength, a broad-ranging repertoire and teaching interests are essential. We welcome candidates from all backgrounds. The candidate selected will be expected to be a significant partner in connecting the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness to an increasingly diverse and globally-connected community at the university and in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex. Responsibilities include teaching and service. The successful candidate will be responsible for a faculty teaching load of 4 courses or approximately 12 credit hours per semester including but not limited to: Applied Exercise Physiology, Exercise Physiology, Functional Biomechanics, Biomechanics, Physiology in Health and Disease, Fitness and Health Enterprise; maintaining office hours and an appropriate student-centered presence on campus; and participating in the development, growth and expansion of the Applied Physiology and Health Management specialization within the APSM program. For additional information about the Applied Physiology and Wellness department, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Simmons/Academics/Applied-Physiology-and-Wellness. Required qualifications include: (1) completed requirements for a doctoral or other terminal degree in Physiology or Biomechanics as broadly defined by May 2022; (2) expertise to teach courses at the undergraduate level across multiple physiology, biomechanics and exercise science classes; (3) demonstrated potential as a teacher-scholar; and (4) academic and/or community service. Applicants with advanced training in human performance, public health, medicine or engineering in addition to the life science disciplines all qualify for consideration. Preferred qualifications include: (1) earned doctorate degree in Physiology, Biomechanics or other appropriate and closely related discipline; (2) experience teaching undergraduate or graduate courses in one or more of the following: Exercise Science, Biomechanics, Physiology, Health Promotion or Health Management; (3) interest in making significant contributions to graduate programs; (4) scholarly research; and (5) demonstrated service or collaborations within the field of exercise science. Application Process Review of applications will begin on December 15, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Reference the position number in all documents submitted for application: (1) cover letter outlining teaching and service experience and related qualifications; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references who will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted electronically through Interfolio at: http://apply.interfolio.com/97808. For questions about the search submission process, contact Susan Sifford at ssifford@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Dr. Megan Murphy, Search Committee Chair, mnmurphy@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. Position No. 53003 – Lecturer The Simmons School of Education and Human Development invites applications for a non-tenure track position at the Lecturer level in the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness with an emphasis on Student Academic Success programs. This is a unique opportunity to join an innovative, interdisciplinary academic program. Creative energy, intellectual strength, a broad-ranging repertoire and teaching interests are essential. We welcome candidates from all backgrounds. The candidate selected will be expected to be a significant partner in connecting the Simmons School, the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness, and Student Academic Success programs to an increasingly diverse and globally-connected community at the University and in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex. Responsibilities include teaching and service. This is a 9-month appointment for the 2022-2023 academic year. The successful candidate will be responsible for a faculty teaching load of 12 credit hours per semester including but not limited to (1) PRW 3305 Personal Responsibility & Community, a three-credit course that provides students the opportunity to investigate their mindsets and identities as they apply to decisions that impact both themselves and the welfare of others and their community, (2) HDEV 1210 Academic Success and Personal Development, a two-credit course designed to support first-year and transfer students improve their reading efficiency, executive functioning, and lifelong learning skills, and (3) HDEV 1211 Success Strategies, a two-credit course designed to support students on academic probation. Maintaining office hours and an appropriate student-centered presence on campus and participating in ongoing curriculum development are essential. The successful candidate will have a teaching/learning disposition that includes active listening and is adaptable to the changing needs of our students/team/department/university. For additional information about the Personal Responsibility and Community courses and the Academic Success & Personal Development courses, please visit: https://www.smu.edu/Simmons/Academics/Applied-Physiology-and-Wellness/Wellness and https://www.smu.edu/ Provost/ProvostOffice/SAES/StudentSupport/SASP/Services/SkillsCourses. Required qualifications include: (1) a Master's degree, preferably in education, psychology or related academic discipline; (2) a minimum of two years of teaching experience; and (3) experience in counseling, advising, or teaching at the secondary or post-secondary level in relation to minimum teaching requirements. Experience in meeting the academic support needs of a wide variety of students in strongly preferred. Preferred qualifications include: (1) an earned doctoral degree or completed requirements for a doctoral degree in Education, Higher Education, Curriculum & Instruction, Educational Leadership, Educational Psychology or related field by May 2022; (2) expertise to teach courses at the undergraduate level across a multi-disciplinary spectrum to include advising and teaching; (3) demonstrated potential as a teacher-scholar; (4) academic and/or community service; and (5) experience in meeting the academic support needs of a wide variety of students. Application Process Review of applications will begin on April 22, 2022, and the position will remain open until filled. Preference will be given to applications received on or before April 22. Reference the position number in all documents submitted for application: (1) cover letter outlining teaching and service experience and related qualifications; (2) curriculum vitae; (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted electronically through Interfolio at https://apply.interfolio.com/104555. For questions about the search submission process, contact Susan Sifford at ssifford@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Dr. Donna Gober, Search Committee Chair, dgober@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 1, 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. About the Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness The Department of Applied Physiology and Wellness offers undergraduate and graduate programs and manages research labs that promote academic rigor and the scientific advancement of the field of applied physiology. The Bachelor of Science in Applied Physiology and Sport Management (APSM) offers concentrations in Applied Physiology and Health Management, Sport Management, and Sport Performance Leadership. The department also offers undergraduate minors in applied physiology, applied physiology and health management, sport management, and sport performance leadership for students earning baccalaureate degrees in other departments at SMU. The department’s graduate programs include an M.S. in Sport Management, an M.S. in Health Promotion Management, and a Ph.D. in Applied Physiology. The three research labs support funded scientific investigations and promote sound practice in the sport, health leadership, and management industries. The Locomotor Performance Lab studies the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance. The Applied Physiology/Biomechanics Lab investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations, and the Cerebrovascular Research Laboratory investigates cerebral blood-flow regulation and the role of the autonomic nervous system in healthy and diseased humans. Department of Counseling and Dispute Resolution Rank/Title: Clinical/Assistant Professor in Counseling (2 positions) Position Numbers: 53319, 52933 Rank/Title: Clinical/Assistant Professor in Counseling, with an LGBTQ+ focus Position Number: 53313 The Simmons School of Education and Human Development at Southern Methodist University seeks three full-time Clinical Assistant Professors in the Graduate Counseling Program. Position Numbers 53319 and 52933 – Clinical Assistant Professors Principal responsibilities include: Teaching counseling related courses and/or related topics with specific emphasis on school counseling, diversity, addiction/substance abuse, research, statistics Academic (individual and group) advising Clinical Supervision of students Service to the department to support program projects and events Service to the School and University This is a renewable non-tenured position with an initial one-year appointment beginning August 2022. Required qualifications include: A doctoral degree in counseling or counselor education (Ph.D. or Ed.D.) from a CACREP-accredited program Teaching experience in counseling related courses and/or related topics with specific emphasis on addiction/substance abuse, research, statistics, school counseling, and/or diversity Demonstrated identity as a counselor educator and clinician Demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice in counseling Clinical experience in the field Preferred qualifications: Texas LPC-S and/or LMFT-S School Counseling experience Addiction/Substance abuse experience Clinical counseling experience Experience in supervision/management of a clinic Three years teaching experience Application Process Review of applications will begin December 3, 2021, and the positions will remain open until filled. Please reference the position numbers in all documents submitted for application. The following documents are required: (1) cover letter outlining teaching, scholarship, professional service, and clinical experiences. Please also include research experience, if applicable. (2) curriculum vitae. (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted through Interfolio at: http://apply.interfolio.com/95577. For questions about the search submissions process, contact Kathy Silva at ksilva@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Tom Hartsell, Committee Chair, at thartsel@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. Position No. 53313 – Clinical Assistant Professor with an LGBTQ+ focus Principal responsibilities include: Teaching counseling related courses and/or related topics with specific emphasis on LGBTQ+ communities and/or addiction/substance abuse, research, statistics, and school counseling Curriculum and program development, including the LGBTQ+ Affirmative Therapy elective concentration Academic (individual and group) advising Clinical Supervision of students Service to the department to support program projects and events Service to the School and University This is a renewable non-tenured position with an initial one-year appointment beginning August 2022. Required qualifications include: A doctoral degree in counseling or counselor education (Ph.D. or Ed.D.) from a CACREP-accredited program Teaching experience in counseling related courses and/or related topics with specific emphasis on addiction/substance abuse, research, statistics, school counseling, and/or diversity Demonstrated identity as a counselor educator and clinician Demonstrated commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and social justice in counseling Clinical experience in the field Preferred qualifications: Texas LPC-S and/or LMFT-S Clinical counseling experience with LGBTQ+ individuals, adolescents, couples and/or families Experience in supervision/management of a clinic Three years teaching experience Application Process Review of applications will begin December 3, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Please reference the position number in all documents submitted for application. The following documents are required: (1) cover letter outlining teaching, scholarship, professional service, and clinical experiences. Please also include research experience, if applicable. (2) curriculum vitae. (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted through Interfolio at http://apply.interfolio.com/95549. For questions about the search submissions process, contact Kathy Silva at ksilva@smu.edu. For questions about the department or position, contact Maggie Keeling, Committee Chair, at mkeeling@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. About the Graduate Counseling Program The Program in Counseling is a part of the prestigious Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development at Southern Methodist University. The Program in Counseling is a vibrant SMU community with a strong history of public service, rigorous academics, innovative curricula, as well as opportunity for study in Taos, New Mexico, and abroad. The Program maintains approximately 270 graduate students whose capstone experience is practica in the state of the art SMU Center for Family Counseling. The program offers three CACREP accredited Specialties: Clinical Mental Health; Marriage, Couple & Family; and School Counseling. The program also offers a robust 9-hour elective concentration in LGBTQ+ Affirmative Therapy to equip counselors-in-training in culturally competent counseling services for LGBTQ+ individuals, couples and families. The Center for Family Counseling offers counseling services to the community and provides a laboratory experience for students prior to clinical internship. Supportive faculty work collaboratively to sustain a nurturing and innovative environment, which is the hallmark of the program and has contributed to its ongoing success. Visit the Counseling Program website to learn more. Message from a Graduate: "The classes have been an incredible learning experience for me, but it will be the human touch you have all brought to it, the unique ways you have touched my life, my soul, and my person that I will remember most. These are the experiences from which I will “drink” for a long time; which have and continue to form me as a person and as a counselor." Program Area: Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution Rank/Title: Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor / Program Area Chair Position Number: 05731 Rank/Title: Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor Position Number: 53272 The Simmons School of Education and Human Development invites applications for a full-time program area Faculty Chair and a Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor in the area of Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution. Position No. 5731 – Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor / Program Area Chair Duties and Responsibilities Teach courses in the graduate liberal studies and/or dispute resolution programs (4 x 4 teaching responsibility with 1 course release per semester and summer stipend for administrative responsibilities) Strengthen the program’s ability to recruit, appoint, promote and retain a gifted and diverse faculty Enhance the program’s ability to attract and retain gifted adult graduate students from diverse backgrounds Enhance teaching and learning through innovative/creative curricula, pedagogies, programs, and methodologies and technology Design, implement and evaluate interdisciplinary programs that combine fields generally considered to be distinct to match needs of the modern city, state, nation and world Engage the community for lifelong learning through professional training and continuing education to serve alumni and new populations of learners while generating revenue for the University Oversee the department’s academic affairs and management of all faculty and administrative staff Nurture a climate that welcomes students and promotes collegiality among faculty from a variety of different departments and disciplines across campus and in the community Conduct performance reviews and submit recommendations for merit pay in accordance with University policy Coordinate yearly evaluations of all students enrolled in Departmental programs Hire faculty and assign courses and professional responsibilities to faculty Lead departmental meetings and academic council meetings Represent the department to the Dean and University leadership Advocate for and support the development of external partnerships Directly oversee all programs Provide budget and payroll oversight This is a renewable non-tenured position with an initial three-year appointment beginning August 2022. Required qualifications include: A Ph.D. (or earned doctoral equivalent relevant to the field and compliant with SACS requirements) in the Humanities, Social Sciences, or Education with broad experience in Interdisciplinary Studies/Graduate Liberal Studies or Continuing and Professional Studies. Administrative experience Experience advising/chairing students through the completion of a doctoral degree Application Process Review of applications will begin November 30, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Please reference the position number in all documents submitted for application. The following documents are required: (1) cover letter outlining teaching, scholarship, professional service, and administrative experience, as well as research experience if applicable; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted through Interfolio at http://apply.interfolio.com/97520. For questions about the search submissions process, contact Tamra Gayle at tgayle@smu.edu. For questions about the program or position contact Tim Jacobbe, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Search Committee Chair, at jacobbe@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. Position No. 53272 – Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor The Simmons School of Education and Human Development invites applications for a full-time Clinical Assistant/Associate/Professor in the areas of Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution. Principal Responsibilities Include Teaching courses in the graduate liberal studies and/or dispute resolution programs Academic (individual and group) advising Service to the department to support program projects and events Service to the School and University This is a renewable non-tenured position with an initial one-year appointment beginning August 2022. Required qualifications include: A Ph.D. (or earned doctoral equivalent) in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Education or other area relevant to the programs served and Teaching experience at the university level. Preferred qualifications include: Experience advising/chairing students through the completion of a doctoral degree. Application Process Review of applications will begin November 30, 2021, and the position will remain open until filled. Please reference the position number in all documents submitted for application. The following documents are required: (1) cover letter outlining teaching, scholarship, professional service, and administrative experience, as well as research experience if applicable; (2) curriculum vitae; and (3) the names, affiliations, and contact information for three references. References will only be contacted if the candidate advances to the on-campus interview stage. All materials should be submitted through Interfolio at http://apply.interfolio.com/97506. For questions about the search submissions process, contact Tamra Gayle at tgayle@smu.edu. For questions about the program or position, contact Tim Jacobbe, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Search Committee Chair, at jacobbe@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. The start date for this position is August 2022. Salary is competitive and commensurate with experience. About the Program Area of Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution The Graduate Liberal Studies and Dispute Resolution program area offers a wide range of interdisciplinary, skills-based master’s, doctoral, and certificate programs for professionals, community leaders, and individuals. Students in this vibrant community represent a range of professional and community backgrounds and educational goals. The program area offers a Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution, Master of Liberal Studies, Doctor of Liberal Studies, Graduate Certificate in Dispute Resolution, Executive Coaching Concentration, Healthcare Collaboration and Conflict Engagement Certificate, and Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study. About the Simmons School, SMU, and the City of Dallas The Simmons School of Education & Human Development Ranked among the top 12 private graduate schools of education in the nation and among the top 3 public and private schools in Texas according to U.S. News & World Report. The Simmons School was founded in 2005 and named in 2007 in recognition of a landmark gift from Harold C. and Annette Caldwell Simmons of Dallas. It has 1300 undergraduate and graduate students in five academic departments, including Counseling and Dispute Resolution, Teaching and Learning, Education Policy and Leadership, Applied Physiology and Sport Management, and Graduate Liberal Studies. The School promotes excellence by engaging in and disseminating research, preparing exemplary professionals in education and human development, collaborating with other schools and institutions in the development of model programs, and furthering positive learning experiences in all stages of life. The mission of the School is to integrate the theory, research, and practice of education and human development; promote academic rigor and interdisciplinary collaboration; educate students for initial certification and professional practice; and nurture collaboration across the academic community. Simmons offers school-wide degree programs, including doctoral and master’s degrees, graduate-level certifications, and undergraduate programs. The School also includes research institutes and community engagement centers. Research and community programs at Simmons include the Center on Research and Evaluation, Budd Center for Involving Communities in Education, Institute for Evidence-Based Education, Institute for Leadership Impact, Applied Physiology Laboratory, Locomotor Performance Laboratory, Research in Mathematics Education, Center for Family Counseling, TRIO College Access, and McNair Scholars program. Despite many issues and challenges confronting higher education, the Simmons School has experienced tremendous growth as illustrated by the following: Has partnered with Toyota, Dallas ISD, and the West Dallas community to develop and implement a model for a PK-8 STEM-focused school that can be replicated and scaled elsewhere. Developed the academic infrastructure for five new departments to launch a new school of education and human development through its inaugural dean. Developed four new doctoral programs, including a Ph.D. in Education, two Ed.D. programs in School Leadership and Higher Education, and a Doctor of Liberal Studies program (one of only three of its kind in the U.S.). Created strategies to build a constituency of friends and alumni by highlighting the accomplishments of the school during its first 10 years in building support for scholarship and programs. Created a strategic vision focused on undergraduate and graduate programs built on evidence-based practices to improve the lives of children and their families. Built a $24 million operating budget in seven years by employing strategy-based budgeting and careful enrollment management. Recruited and hired a world-class faculty and staff, growing from 50 employees in 2007 to the current 167. Developed a network of partner agencies in Dallas that allows Simmons faculty and students to engage with multiple communities, including K-12 education, the sport industry, wellness and medical communities, and the non-profit sector. Secured support for three new endowed chairs, an endowed deanship, and an endowed professorship. Developed an annual gala to honor Simmons Luminaries, which highlights the contributions of local, state, and national groups or individuals who improve educational outcomes for children. Developed a research and training infrastructure that results in approximately $10 million annually in expenditures and that continues to grow with grants and contracts from federal and state agencies, foundations, and private and corporate donors. Cultivated an alumni and donor network that resulted in an endowment of more than $18 million and more than $45 million in support for capital projects. Completed the design and construction of two state-of-the-art academic buildings with over 80,000 sq. feet of office and classroom spaces, applied physiology labs, and a 21st century teacher development studio designed to advance the development of pre-service and in-service teachers using innovative technologies. Created two centers and an institute designed to engage the Simmons School in the community as a source of support for leadership development, non-profit impact, research, and evaluations of community-based projects. Enhanced enrollment and quality of the Graduate Liberal Studies Program focused on an alternative student body of professionals interested in pursuing liberal arts. To learn more about the dynamic research and teaching environment of the Simmons School, visit smu.edu/simmons. SMU: The University SMU is a global research university with a liberal arts tradition that is nonsectarian in its teaching. It has seven degree-granting schools: Cox School of Business, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, Dedman School of Law, Lyle School of Engineering, Meadows School of the Arts, Perkins School of Theology, and Simmons School of Education and Human Development. These schools offer undergraduate, master’s, professional, and doctoral degrees in various fields of the humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, engineering, and professional disciplines. The University has an enrollment of 11,000 students, 42 percent of whom are pursuing graduate studies. The students are taught by more than 700 faculty members and have access to library holdings of almost 4 million volumes. In addition to the Dallas campus, SMU has a campus in Taos, New Mexico. The Center for World University Rankings placed SMU among the top 15 percent of 1,000 universities ranked worldwide again this year. SMU ranked No. 142 overall and No. 27 in the alumni employment category, which is assessed by the number of alumni who have held CEO positions since 2011 at the world’s top 2,000 public companies listed on the Forbes Global 2000 list. SMU was founded in 1911 by Dallas civic leaders in partnership with the Methodist Church and has been shaped ever since by a commitment to academic freedom and open inquiry as well as the entrepreneurial spirit of the region. Fall 2020 Campus Profile Faculty 84.7% of full-time faculty members hold the doctorate or highest degree in their fields. The student-faculty ratio is 11-to-1 Total Fall 2020 Full-time Faculty – 767 Male – 59% Female – 41% Minority – 19% Enrollment Total Fall 2020 Enrollment – 12,373 Undergraduate students – 6,827 Graduate students – 5,546 Total new ﬁrst-year undergraduate students – 1,531 Undergraduate Enrollment by Gender Female – 49% Male – 51% Graduate Enrollment by Gender Male – 52% Female – 48% Diversity Total Fall 2020 Identified Minority Enrollment – 3,887 Hispanic – 1,618 Asian – 929 Black/African American – 855 American Indian/Alaska Native – 24 Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander – 9 Two or more races – 452 Minority percentage of total enrollment – 31% Socioeconomic Three out of four SMU students receive scholarships and/or financial aid, including academic and need-based. National More than half of undergraduates come from outside Texas, with students from all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Following Texas, the leading home states for first-year students are California, Illinois,Florida and Connecticut. International International enrollment of 1,117 students (9% of total enrollment) from 83 foreign countries. The largest international groups are from China, India and Mexico. Religious – Among students reporting a religious preference 28% are Catholic 14% are Methodist 46% are from other Protestant denominations and 11% represent other religions (including Judaism, Islam and Hinduism). Diverse Campus Ministries organizations support and nurture students in the development of faith and ethics. Degrees Conferred in 2019-2020 Total –3,827 Bachelor’s – 1,853 Master’s – 1,659 Doctoral-Professional (J.D.) – 215 Doctoral-Research/Scholarship –100 Degrees Awarded by School in 2019-2020 Simmons School of Education and Human Development – 446 Cox School of Business – 1,158 Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences – 872 Lyle School of Engineering –566 Meadows School of the Arts – 363 Dedman School of Law – 253 Perkins School of Theology – 60 The Guildhall – 67 Research and Graduate Studies (M.S.D.S.) –135 The City of Dallas SMU is located in the heart of Dallas, in the beautiful University Park residential area. The faculty, students, and staff enjoy all the cultural, athletic, and recreational opportunities that the ninth-largest city in the country provides. With a greater Dallas population exceeding 6.8 million, which makes it the fourth-largest and fifth-most diverse metropolitan area in the U.S., the region is home to nearly 20 Fortune 500 companies and has the 10th most frequently traveled airport in the world. Dallas boasts the nation’s largest urban arts district, which consists of world-class museums and a luminous cluster of performing arts spaces, highlighted by the Winspear Opera House, described by Opera magazine as America’s finest. With the Trinity River, White Rock Lake, almost 400 parks, and over 125 miles of urban hiking and biking trails, the city provides abundant opportunities to enjoy the outdoors. The city has been named one of the Greenest Cities in the world. SMU students and faculty utilize the Dallas metropolitan area as an extension of the classroom, characterized by engaged learning projects and corporate and community partnerships. (SMU Community and Economic Impact Report: http://smu.edu/impact/). To learn more about the rich culture of Dallas, visit https://www.visitdallas.com/. SMU will not discriminate in any program or activity on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, veteran status, sexual orientation, or gender identity and expression. The Executive Director for Access and Equity/Title IX Coordinator is designated to handle inquiries regarding nondiscrimination policies and may be reached at the Perkins Administration Building, Room 204, 6425 Boaz Lane, Dallas, TX 75205, 214-768-3601, accessequity@smu.edu. Hiring is contingent upon the satisfactory completion of a background check. About Simmons Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Simmons COVID-19 Information Fall 2021 Important Student Information Dean's Message Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Integrity and Code of Conduct History: from 1920 Executive Board Simmons News Catalogs Giving UG Academic Services Simmons Strategic Plan Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Simmons Luminary Award Paving the Way to Inclusion Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Openings Simmons Governance Simmons Newsletters Simmons Blogs and Social Media XPRIZE Alumni Contact Us Contact Simmons Contact Us 214-768-7587 sehd@smu.edu Visit Us Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Southern Methodist University 3101 University Boulevard Dallas, Texas 75205 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter