Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services Conference & Event Services Every day, Conference & Event Services (also known as CES) supports the university’s ordinary and extraordinary activities for you: students, organizations, department staff, academic faculty and non-university (external) clients. We schedule indoor and outdoor campus spaces not directly managed by colleges. We plan, manage, and help host small to large-scale meetings, events, and conferences that happen both on and off campus. In the summer we coordinate with a variety of university service providers to support your summer guests, interns and camps on campus. We manage Tangeman University Center as a go-to campus destination for entertainment, relaxation, retail, studying, meeting and eating. The CES staff are continually trained to respond to a variety of complex programming needs. The office is certified by the national organization ACCED-I as a One-Stop Shop service provider. You benefit from the most effective planning services UC has to offer, ensuring your event is successful and your participants are wowed by their UC experience. To learn more about the team, visit Contact Us. CES News New parking rates, options for University of Cincinnati employees May 18, 2022 A new parking permit rate increase will go into effect Friday, July 1, 2022 for UC employees who purchase parking permits. The rate increase, which will help the university meet its capital needs and allow for new customer technology improvements, can be found on the UC Parking Services website. UC residence tower rises in high style May 9, 2022 Known as the southern gateway to campus, where almost 3,000 students pass through on their way to U-square every day, the more than $80 million facelift on the University of Cincinnati's Calhoun residence hall now shines a light on the positive, modern features adorning the 16-story tower overlooking UC’s Uptown campus and surrounding city. UC hosts Campus Services Showcase on May 5 April 19, 2022 Event: May 5, 2022 11:00 AM Campus Services Showcase May 5, 2022 Debug Query for this Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top