Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Campus Life Community & Diversity Community & Diversity Our identity is rooted in Jesuit principles of equality and respect for everyone, and when we talk about caring for the whole person, we mean it. Inclusivity and diversity is core to supporting a community of people with an intersectional understanding of themselves and the world around them. We’re here to help you accomplish your goals while honoring your identity along the way. Quick Links Multicultural Equity and Access Disability Support Services Veteran Support Services 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Our Commitment At the heart of Georgetown is a longstanding Jesuit tradition of people for others, which steers us towards spiritual inquiry, civic engagement and religious and cultural pluralism. Here on the Hilltop, you’ll find that we’re devoted to service and grounded by reflection. Georgetown’s Identity Play Youtube Video IDEAA “We talk about community and diversity, we talk about cura personalis, we talk about people for others. We want to make sure, as we go about our daily role within the university, that these perspectives and these values are the forefront of what we do.” Hear from Rosemary Kilkenny, our first Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity, talk about her work at Georgetown. Institutional Diversity, Equity & Affirmative Action 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Student Programs Our campus thrives by sharing our extraordinary range of life experiences and learning from our differences. Programs through our Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, like the Black House, create an environment that inspires dialogue and sustains our truly diverse community. Student Programs LGBTQ Resource Center Our LGBTQ Resource Center is the first such Center of its kind at a Catholic/Jesuit institution in the country. Inspired by the Catholic and Jesuit principles of respect for the dignity of all, cura personalis, equality, and education of the whole person, the Center establishes a safe, inclusive and welcoming environment for LGBTQ community members and promotes better understanding and integration with the entire campus. Visit the Center 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Support for First-Gen and Low-Income Students Then Georgetown Scholars Program (GSP) has served low-income and first-generation students for over 50 years. The program works with students as they navigate the systems of higher education by offering mentorship, community, and financial support. GSP Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog