Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Apply Request More Info High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Learn to blend mathematics and science with the Professional Science Master’s in High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University. This advanced degree program is targeted toward STEM graduates seeking to use high-performance computation as their primary research instrument in engineering, the life sciences and the physical sciences. Upon completion of the program, students are prepared to pursue positions in academia, government labs or industry. You’ll study the cross-disciplinary techniques of applied mathematics, computational sciences, statistics and other traditional sciences. In classes you’ll explore the architecture and mathematical techniques implemented in high-performance computing systems, computational methods utilized in engineering and the sciences, and software tools used in parallel calculations. A distinguishing feature of the program is its dual emphasis on the algorithmic and technological applications of high-performance computing to solve problems in science and engineering. The program prioritizes practice over theory, meaning you’ll gain hands-on experience, applied learning and individually designed projects. The program can be completed on a part- or full-time schedule, and students have two years to complete the 30-credit-hour program. Classes & Curriculum You’ll complete a capstone project, three electives and courses in ethics, high-performance computing, math and professional career development. Electives include courses in biology, chemistry, computer information science, math and physics. Some of the elective class options include Mathematical Modeling for Science, Engineering and Industry; Neural Computation; Quantum Chemistry; Statistical Mechanics; and Structural Bioinformatics I. Learn more about High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science Information PhD Computer Science MS Cyber Defense and Information Assurance PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Scientific Writing PSM Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For general questions regarding the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. Benjamin Seibold is an associate professor in the Mathematics Department and program director of the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM. Phone: 215-204-1656 Email: benjamin.seibold@temple.edu Daniel Szyld is a professor in the Mathematics Department and program director of the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM. Phone: 215-204-7288 Email: daniel.szyld@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor of practice in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Clubs and organizations for students pursuing a Computer and Information Sciences degree include the Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM, which works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM. the Association for Computing Machinery, which promotes the academic, professional and social development of students interested in computer technology. Association for Computing Machinery for Women, an organization that provides support and advocacy for women pursuing careers in technology. Leadership, Education and Development in Science, an organization that empowers Philadelphia middle school students to form an interest in STEM through science experiments and mentors. TU Dev, a community of students with a mutual interest in software design that fosters discussions on emerging trends and technologies in the field. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. ST-HPC-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info