Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Faculty Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Faculty Belenky, Peter Lab website Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology We study the response of the microbiome and isolated bacteria and fungi to external stress such as antimicrobial agents. This work is particularly pressing because unlike at any other time in human history, we are currently exposed to a wide array of natural and artificial antimicrobial agents in the form of antibiotics, chemical disinfectants, chemotherapeutic agents and others. Understanding how these extracellular stressors affect the microbiome will provide critical biological insight into the development of dysbiosis, disease, and antibiotic resistance and will lead to novel therapeutic methodologies. Relying on recent advances in high-throughput DNA and RNA sequencing we are studying the effects of antimicrobial mechanisms that lead to improved antimicrobial tolerance and the development of resistance. [email protected] Bennett, Richard Lab website Professor of Biology, Interim Chair of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology My laboratory is interested in understanding the biology of the human pathogen Candida albicans. C. albicans is a yeast that grows in the human gastrointestinal tract and is usually harmless to humans. However, in some cases, Candida can cause localized infections in healthy individuals and even life-threatening systemic (bloodstream) infections in immunocompromised individuals. The focus of the laboratory is to understand how Candida acts as a pathogen in humans. [email protected] Beura, Lalit Lab Website Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Our laboratory seeks to understand how T cells integrate diverse local microbial and environmental stimuli at mucosal sites to shape distinct, and dynamic immune processes inhealth and disease. T cells are a key component of host defense against pathogenic infection in barrier mucosal surfaces, which are common sites of microbial entry. Often these potent, anti-pathogenic inflammatory responses need to be tightly regulated to maintain barrier integrity and vital physiologic functions. The mucosal immune system in the female reproductive tract (FRT) has evolved to mount a robust anti-pathogen defense while maintaining tolerance towards an immunologically foreign fetus. Thus, the FRT provides a unique model system to study T cell adaptation to diverse environmental inputs. Our research program is aimed to develop a more complete understanding of the fundamental biology of T cells in the reproductive mucosae.Further, we seek to apply this knowledge to informing improved vaccination strategies, develop novel therapies against infection and malignancy and to advance maternal-fetal health. [email protected] Biron, Christine (1951-2021) Esther Elizabeth Brintzenhoff Professor Emerita of Medical Science 1987-2021 Research in Professor Biron's laboratory was directed at understanding the cellular and cytokine mechanisms regulating immune defenses. There was a particular interest in the responses to acute viral infections and links between innate and adaptive immunity. Basic pathways regulating natural killer (NK) and T cells were being defined. Focus included regulation of the signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs). Brossay, Laurent Lab website Professor of Molecular Microbiology & Immunology and Professor of Medical Science The research in our laboratory is directed at understanding the molecular mechanisms controlling the activation of both NK and NK T cells. These two subsets of cells respond quickly to a stimulus and their activation can determine the outcome of an immune response. [email protected] Campbell, Andrew G. Professor of Medical Science Dean of the Graduate School The research program of the lab involves understanding the fundamental structure and function relationships of RNases H with the long term goals of a) unmasking novel nucleic acid metabolic functions associated with the enzymes and b) understanding their placement in the replicative life cycle of the pathogenic protozoan Trypanosoma brucei. Trypanosomes are amongst the earliest branching eukaryotes and are the models in which RNA editing and trans-splicing were initially discovered. Accordingly, they are well suited for our studies. [email protected] de Graffenried, Christopher Lab website Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology We study the replication of the cytoskeleton in T. brucei, the causative agent of African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) in humans. We have shown that the Polo-like kinase homolog in T. brucei (TbPLK) is essential for the inheritance of the parasite's single flagellum, which is necessary for motility and viability. We focus on understanding how TbPLK affects flagellar inheritance by regulating the duplication and segregation of a suite of cytoskeletal organelles that position the flagellum. [email protected] Elias, Jack Senior Vice President for Health Affairs, Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences, Frank L. Day Professor of Biology, Professor of Medicine [email protected] Jamieson, Amanda Lab website Associate Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, Pathobiology Graduate Program Co-Director The main focus of my laboratory is understanding infections and non-infectious diseases of the lung, specifically how multiple lung diseases interact and influence each other. Using clinically relevant model systems we examine the impact of the lung microbiome on pulmonary diseases, alterations of the immune response during viral/bacterial coinfection, and the alteration of epithelial cells and tissue repair mechanisms during pulmonary infections, coinfections, and other lung diseases. [email protected] Lee, Chun Geun Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology (Research) My current research interest focuses on defining the molecular and immunologic mechanism regulating airway and alveolar remodeling that includes emphysema, fibrosis and lung cancer. Recently our laboratory, in collaboration with Dr. Elias, made a significant progress in defining the role of chitinase-like protein (CLP) Chi3l1/YKL-40 in the pathogenesis of allergic inflammation, airway remodeling, and lung injury. Our laboratory also has been intensely working to define in vivo role and mechanism of chitotriosidase, TGF-beta1 and other mediators that regulate the development of lung fibrosis by generation and characterization of gene-specific null and transgenic mice. [email protected] Lee, Sanghyun Lab website Assisant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology The main focus of my laboratory is understanding dynamic host-virus interaction in cells and animals, such as how the host controls viral infection and how viruses counteract against the host immune system. We utilize a mouse model with a variety of knock-out and knock-in mouse lines to investigate viral pathogenesis, and also employ unbiased screening using CRISPR knock-out (CRISPRko) and CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) techniques to discover novel anti-viral or pro-viral cellular genes. [email protected] Mizoguchi, Emiko Associate Adjunct Professor of Molecular Microbiology & Immunology Emiko Mizoguchi's research interests are centered on the basic cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the functional modulation of intestinal epithelial cells (IELs) during the development of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and IBD-associated cancer. This includes identifying the key molecules, including Chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1/YKL-40), which regulate the IEL/microorganism interaction, IEC/immune cells interaction and intestinal epithelial barrier function. [email protected] Mylonakis, Eleftherios Chief, Infectious Diseases Division and Professor of Medicine Dr. Mylonakis is recognized for his research on the study of microbial pathogenesis and host responses. His studies have included clinical and laboratory studies and the use of mammalian and invertebrate model hosts. These surrogate hosts fill an important niche in pathogenesis research and provide us with a unique opportunity to identify novel antimicrobial compounds and study basic, evolutionarily conserved aspects of microbial virulence and host response. His investigations have identified novel virulence factors, cross kingdom pathogen-pathogen interactions, novel agents and evolutionarily conserved traits that are involved in host virulence and immune responses during fungal infection. Taken in their totality, these results indicate that a common, fundamental set of molecular mechanisms is employed by pathogens against a widely divergent array of metazoan hosts. His research has resulted in >200 peer-reviewed scientific articles. Mylonakis, has edited five books on infectious diseases and is the founding editor-in-chief of Virulence. [email protected] Rice, Louis Chair of Medicine, Joukowsky Professor of Medicine [email protected] Rothman, Alan Adjunct Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Dr. Rothman has been involved in research on immunity and pathogenesis of viral diseases in humans for over 25 years. A major focus of his research has been defining the virological and immunological events in acute dengue virus infection and their relationship to the development of the viral hemorrhagic fever syndrome. Dr. Rothman has long-standing collaborations with colleagues at the University of Massachusetts, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, and internationally in Thailand, Europe, and Latin America. His current studies involve both clinical and basic research studies on pathogenesis and immunity of emerging and re-emerging viral infections. Dr. Rothman has served on advisory committees for the National Institutes of Health and the World Health Organization. [email protected] Shank, Peter Professor Emeritus of Medical Science Peter Shank received his BS from Cornell University and his Ph.D. from The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was a postdoctoral fellow at UCSF working with Michael Bishop and Harold Varmus on retroviruses. He joined the Brown faculty in 1978 and has worked with both avian and human retroviruses. He has published extensively on the molecular biology of retroviruses and has served on editorial boards and numerous NIH review panels. [email protected] Wands, Jack Professor of Medicine Jack Wands directs the Liver Research Center, a newly constructed 13,000-sq. ft. facility that emphasizes studies relating to the molecular biology of liver diseases. [email protected] Vaishnava, Shipra Lab website Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Nearly 100 trillion bacteria reside in our gut, yet, we rarely elicit a harmful immune and inflammatory response against them. How is such a peaceful coexistence achieved? Work in my lab focuses on studying the interactions between microbes and the host at the molecular level that ensures this host-microbe mutualism. We use germ-free mouse models in combination with broad array of genetic, cell biological and biochemical approaches to explore the complex interactions between intestinal bacteria and the immune system. The projects in the lab are focused on understanding 1) the role of immunity in regulating host-microbe interaction at the mucosal surface, 2) the composition of microbial communities closest to the mucosal surface and how they are perturbed during infection and inflammation and 3) the molecular mechanisms by which dietary cues regulate immune responses in the gut to bacteria. [email protected] Zheng, Tao Professor of Pediatrics [email protected] Zhou, Yang Assistant Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology My primary research interests are directed towards understanding the immunopathogenesis of lung injury and repair. I have interrogated the roles of a chitinase-like protein and its receptors in a variety of lung diseases including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and pulmonary fibrosis. My future research plans are aimed at dissecting the common mechanisms that underlie the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis, specifically the role of intracellular receptor trafficking pathways in disease progress. My long-range research goals are to identify the immune and cellular responses that mediate lung injury and repair responses and to identify specific molecular targets that can be targeted in the treatment of related disorders. [email protected] Zimmerman, Anita Professor of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology Anita Zimmerman received a BS at the University of California, Berkeley, and a PhD in Physiology & Biophysics at the University of Miami Medical School, with advisors Dr. Birgit Rose and Dr. Karl Magleby. Her PhD thesis project was on the mechanism of cell-to-cell communication via gap junctions. Before arriving at Brown in 1987, she obtained postdoctoral training with Dr. Denis Baylor in Neurobiology at Stanford Medical School, where she began studying cyclic-nucleotide-gated ion channels and visual transduction in rods and cones. At Brown, she has continued to study ion channel biophysics, regulation and function in sensory transduction, using electrophysiology (e.g., "patch clamp") and molecular biology techniques. After decades of NIH-funded research, she now serves as a consultant and/or collaborator with other scientists. She has a long history of serving as a member of NIH review panels and also has served on the editorial board of the premier ion channel journal, the Journal of General Physiology. Dr. Zimmerman teaches cellular neurophysiology and biophysics to medical students, as well as to graduate and undergraduate students, and has won awards for her teaching. She is Director of the Graduate Program in Molecular Pharmacology & Physiology and a former director of Brown's MD/PhD Program. She also is very devoted to increasing diversity and inclusion in science. [email protected] Home About Us Faculty Flow Cytometry and Sorting Facility Courses Graduate News Directions Contact Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box G-B5 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3121 [email protected] MMI Events There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Directory Brown Directory BioMed Faculty Directory Related Links Graduate School Financing & Supporting Living & Resources Resources for Postdocs