Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE RADIOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 RADGY 498 Undergraduate Thesis (*, max. 30) Supervised clinical and/or laboratory research in the broad field of medical imaging, culminating in a thesis. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 498 RADGY 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 35) Opportunity to gain research experience and direct participation in either clinical or basic sciences investigation in diagnostic and/or nuclear medicine. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 499 RADGY 505 P-Preceptorship in Radiology (1-, max. 24) Opportunity for medical students to gain experience with faculty in clinical and academic environments. Students observe general aspects of diagnostic radiology, interventional radiology, or nuclear medicine, including clinical problems, the different relationships in clinic between physician and patient, and research aspects of the department. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 505 RADGY 508 Physical Aspects of Medical Imaging (4) Quantitative physical principles of medical imaging are presented for electromagnetic and sonic radiation. Methods of image formation and analysis are discussed for conventional film radiography, CT, DSA, PET, B-mode ultrasound, and Doppler ultrasound. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 508 RADGY 580 P-Nuclear Medicine Technique, Physics, and Instrumentation (2.5) Provides familiarization with basic nuclear phenomena and with the instrumentation used in the practice of nuclear medicine. Discussions and laboratory exercises. Practical experience in instrument operation and sample counting are provided. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 580 RADGY 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) Prerequisite: permission faculty sponsor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 600 RADGY 684 Interventional Radiology (8) David Shin Advanced Patient Care (APC) clerkship in interventional radiology (IR) for third- or fourth-year medical students strongly considering application to IR residency. Sites include UWMC, HMC, VA, and SCH. Prerequisite: permission of clerkship coordinator and director; recommended: RADGY 694. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 684 RADGY 685 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Bozeman (4/8) Overview of the sub-specialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasizes utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 685 RADGY 686 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Idaho Falls (4) Overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasizes utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 686 RADGY 687 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Casper (4) Overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasizes utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 687 RADGY 688 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Boise (4) View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 688 RADGY 689 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Billings (4) Lectures, case discussions, film reading, and independent study provide an overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasis on utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 689 RADGY 690 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Nampa (4) Half-time clerkship in the field of medical imaging. Lectures, case discussions, film reading, and independent study provide an overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasis on utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 690 RADGY 691 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Alaska (4) Half-time clerkship in the field of medical imaging. Lectures, case discussions, film reading, and independent study provide an overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine. Emphasis on utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 691 RADGY 692 P-Introduction to Diagnostic Radiology - Spokane (4/8) Full-time clerkship in the field of medical imaging. Lectures, case discussions, film reading, and independent study provide an overview of the subspecialty areas of diagnostic radiology. Emphasis on utilization and selection of imaging tests, radiologic anatomy, and interpretation of commonly encountered studies. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 692 RADGY 694 P-Advanced Radiology Clerkship (4/8) G. REDDY Clerkship for third- or fourth-year medical students providing a more in depth experience in diagnostic or interventional radiology. Prerequisite: Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 694 RADGY 695 P-Radiology Elective Clerkship (4/8) Clinical rotations for third- or fourth-year medical students in one to four subspecialty areas of radiology at University of Washington and affiliated hospitals for those who have not previously completed a radiology clerkship. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 695 RADGY 696 P-Nuclear Medicine Clerkship (*, max. 12) Daily participation at University of Washington Medical Center nuclear medicine clinic emphasizing technical performance, diagnostic interpretation, and clinical relevance of nuclear imaging. Daily clinical teaching conferences of the division. Four- and six-week clerkships can be preplanned in areas such as pulmonary, cardiovascular, renal, bone, computer analysis. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 696 RADGY 697 P-Radiology Special Electives (*, max. 24) Radiologic training in a nonaffiliated institution. Permission and arrangements must be made at the time of registration through direct communication between the student and the education coordinator in Radiology. A written outline from a preceptor at the intended site required. Prerequisite: permission of radiology education coordinator. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 697 RADGY 699 P-WWAMI Radiology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions other than the University of Washington located within the WWAMI region. Prerequisite: permission of department. View course details in MyPlan: RADGY 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022