Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery About the Institute About the Institute Housing Toggle information Close detail panel Radcliffe Yard, pictured here, is located steps from the apartments at 83 Brattle Street. Photo by Yuliya Zhogina Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Copy Link Harvard Radcliffe Institute owns and operates an apartment building located at 83 Brattle Street, close to Harvard Square and Radcliffe Yard. Eligibility All full-time fellows, faculty, visiting scholars, and staff at Harvard University and the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study are eligible to apply for housing at the 83 Brattle Street Apartments. Applications will be approved on a first-come first-served basis, with preference given to Radcliffe fellows, then to Harvard University fellows and to Harvard graduate students. Recently renovated and comfortably furnished, the 83 Brattle Street Apartments offer 1920s charm just steps from Harvard Square. A variety of sizes and price ranges are available, and leases can be written for the summer, a semester, or the academic year. How to Apply We are currently accepting rental applications. To apply, complete and submit the 83 Brattle Street Apartments housing application. Building Amenities Heat and hot water included in the rent (These utilities can range from $200 to $600 per month, in addition to rent, in off-campus housing units.) Elevator in building Free Harvard Wi-Fi Hardwood floors in most units Bathrooms with granite-top vanities and ceramic tile floors Kitchens with granite counters, solid maple cabinets, and energy-efficient appliances Coin-operated washers and dryers on site Furnishings Basic house wares (including kitchen equipment, one set of bedding, and bathroom accessories) Rules No pets may be kept or harbored in the unit or elsewhere in the building. Smoking is not permitted in or around the perimeter of the building. Apartment Styles Studio Apartment (Approximate square footage: 265–275) Studio Apartment with Alcove (Approximate square footage: 360) One Bedroom (Approximate square footage: 425) One Bedroom with Hallway (Approximate square footage: 450) Two Bedroom (Approximate square footage: 620) Additional Information For additional housing at Harvard, visit the Harvard University Housing (HUH) website. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Share this page on LinkedIn Start your Housing Application We are currently accepting rental applications. A temporary pandemic relief adjustment in the amount of $150 per month, per unit, will be applied to each unit’s rent from September 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. Apply today. Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College