Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Communications Home Who We Are What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources Site Navigation Home Who We Are University Communications Staff What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources View Our Work Working with campus partners, we deliver marketing communications solutions to support academic initiatives, recruitment, announcements and a wide variety of events and programs. We look forward to meeting with you to discuss your communications goals. A Day on College Hill A Day on College Hill is a large-scale, annual recruitment event for the Office of College Admission. In partnership with admission staff, OUC created an inviting, cohesive look for the event’s digital presence and print collateral that aligns with a new suite of admission materials. Services Visual design, editing, website design, social media campaign, video production, photography ADOCH 1 ADOCH 2 ADOCH 3 ADOCH 4 ADOCH 5 ADOCH 6 Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Announcement In April 2018, one of the largest single gifts in Brown history changed the name of the Brown Institute for Brain Science to the Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science and established it as one of the best-endowed brain institutes in the country. Given the significance of this announcement, OUC developed a robust marketing campaign to launch the Institute to the world. Services Media outreach, visual design and branding, social media campaign, video production, photography, website design and strategy, editing Carney 1 Carney 2 Carney 3 Carney 4 Carney 5 Carney 6 Carney 7 Brown Matriculation Package Together with the Office of the Dean of the College, OUC revamped the existing collection of materials mailed to admitted students to focus on timely, relevant information presented in a modern, consistent format both in print and online. Services Visual design, editing and writing, photography, web content and design Matriculation 1 Matriculation 2 Matriculation 3 Matriculation 4 Matriculation 5 Sheridan Center Website Redesign In collaboration with Sheridan Center staff, OUC updated and enhanced the Sheridan Center's website, moving it to the University Theme for a fresh, mobile-friendly design. Services Banner design, consultation on information architecture, assistance with content migration, implementation of enhanced events functionality, photography Sheridan 1 Sheridan 2 Sheridan 3 Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Brown University Box 1920 South Street Landing, Floor 5 350 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone: 401-863-6262 Email [email protected] Email media_relations @brown.edu Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top