Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory English Department Courses for Spring 2022 Courses for Spring 2022 Independent Study in Nonfiction Writing Tutorial instruction oriented toward some work in progress by the student. Requires submission of a written proposal to a faculty supervisor. Section numbers vary by instructor. Instructor permission required. S/NC. ENGL 1200 S04 Primary Instructor Jackson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S05 Primary Instructor Breton Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S11 Primary Instructor DeBoer-Langworthy Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S19 Primary Instructor Foley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S27 Primary Instructor Readey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S41 Primary Instructor Stanley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S47 Primary Instructor Arnold Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S48 Primary Instructor Stewart Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S53 Primary Instructor Schapira Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S59 Primary Instructor Ward Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1200 S67 Primary Instructor Hipchen Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Undergraduate Independent Study in Medieval and Early Modern Literatures Tutorial instruction oriented toward a literary research topic. Section numbers vary by instructor. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1380 S07 Primary Instructor Bryan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S19 Primary Instructor Foley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S34 Primary Instructor Rabb Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S49 Primary Instructor Redfield Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S52 Primary Instructor Rambuss Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S57 Primary Instructor Kuzner Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1380 S68 Primary Instructor Scozzaro Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Undergraduate Independent Study in the Enlightenment and the Rise of National Literatures Tutorial instruction oriented toward a literary research topic. Section numbers vary by instructor. Instructor's permission required. ENGL 1580 S08 Primary Instructor Burrows Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S15 Primary Instructor Egan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S18 Primary Instructor Khalip Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S21 Primary Instructor Gould Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S33 Primary Instructor Nabers Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S34 Primary Instructor Rabb Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S36 Primary Instructor Rooney Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S49 Primary Instructor Redfield Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S55 Primary Instructor Anderson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1580 S63 Primary Instructor Parker Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Undergraduate Independent Study in Modern and Contemporary Literatures Tutorial instruction oriented toward a literary research topic. Section numbers vary by instructor. Instructor's permission required. ENGL 1780 S02 Primary Instructor Armstrong Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S03 Primary Instructor Bewes Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S08 Primary Instructor Burrows Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S15 Primary Instructor Egan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S17 Primary Instructor Abdur-Rahman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S19 Primary Instructor Foley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S20 Primary Instructor George Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S25 Primary Instructor Katz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S28 Primary Instructor Kim Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S32 Primary Instructor Murray Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S33 Primary Instructor Nabers Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S35 Primary Instructor Reichman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S36 Primary Instructor Rooney Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S52 Primary Instructor Rambuss Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S60 Primary Instructor Gandhi Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S62 Primary Instructor Smailbegovic Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S64 Primary Instructor Quashie Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S65 Primary Instructor Ramirez-D'Oleo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 1780 S66 Primary Instructor Readey Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Graduate Independent Study in Medieval and Early Modern Literatures Section numbers vary by instructor. May be repeated for credit. Instructor's permission required. ENGL 2380 S07 Primary Instructor Bryan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S15 Primary Instructor Egan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S19 Primary Instructor Foley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S34 Primary Instructor Rabb Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S49 Primary Instructor Redfield Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S52 Primary Instructor Rambuss Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S57 Primary Instructor Kuzner Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2380 S68 Primary Instructor Scozzaro Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Graduate Independent Study in the Enlightenment and the Rise of National Literatures Section numbers vary by instructor. May be repeated for credit. Instructor's permission required. ENGL 2580 S08 Primary Instructor Burrows Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S15 Primary Instructor Egan Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S18 Primary Instructor Khalip Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S21 Primary Instructor Gould Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S30 Primary Instructor McLaughlin Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S33 Primary Instructor Nabers Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S34 Primary Instructor Rabb Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S36 Primary Instructor Rooney Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S49 Primary Instructor Redfield Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S55 Primary Instructor Anderson Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2580 S63 Primary Instructor Parker Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Graduate Independent Study in Modern and Contemporary Literatures Section numbers vary by instructor. May be repeated for credit. Instructor's permission required. ENGL 2780 S02 Primary Instructor Armstrong Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S03 Primary Instructor Bewes Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S08 Primary Instructor Burrows Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S17 Primary Instructor Abdur-Rahman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S20 Primary Instructor George Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S25 Primary Instructor Katz Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S28 Primary Instructor Kim Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S32 Primary Instructor Murray Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S33 Primary Instructor Nabers Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S35 Primary Instructor Reichman Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S36 Primary Instructor Rooney Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S41 Primary Instructor Stanley Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S52 Primary Instructor Rambuss Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S60 Primary Instructor Gandhi Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S62 Primary Instructor Smailbegovic Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S64 Primary Instructor Quashie Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research ENGL 2780 S65 Primary Instructor Ramirez-D'Oleo Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Preliminary Examination Preparation For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination. ENGL 2970 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep Thesis Preparation For graduate students who have met the residency requirement and are continuing research on a full time basis. ENGL 2990 S01 Schedule Code E: Graduate Thesis Prep The Roaring Twenties This course examines U.S. culture of the 1920s, with particular attention to phenomena that came to be mythologized as the “roaring twenties”—flappers, movie culture, literary and cultural innovation, primitivism and exoticism. We will read fiction and some poetry in the context of movies, publicity, and advertising. Class discussion will focus on analyzing texts with an attention to language and form, as well as connecting these texts to their cultural contexts. Enrollment limited to 19 first-year students. ENGL 0150S S01 Primary Instructor Katz The Claims of Fiction This course explores the interplay of tropes of strangeness, contamination, and crisis in a range of novels and shorter fiction, in English or in translation. We will ask why social misfits and outsiders somehow become such fascinating figures in fictional narratives. How do these fictions entice and equip readers to reflect on collective assumptions, values, and practices? Writers will include Baldwin, Brontë, Coetzee, Conrad, Faulkner, Ishiguro, Morrison, Naipaul, Rushdie, Salih, Shelley. Limited to 19 first-year students. ENGL 0150X S01 Primary Instructor George Modernist Cities In the early twentieth century, modernist writers headed for New York, Paris, London and other cities, and based their literary experiments on forms of metropolitan life. We will discuss chance encounters, cosmopolitan and underground nightlife, solitary wandering, and bohemian communities. Writers may include Barnes, Dos Passos, Eliot, Hemingway, Hughes, Larsen, Joyce, McKay, Rhys, Woolf. Enrollment limited to 30. ENGL 0700R S01 Primary Instructor Katz American Literature in the Era of Segregation This course examines how American literature intersects with the legal, ethical, and racial discourses that defined the system of racial segregation. In doing so, the course will assess the ways that literary style and genre became inseparable from the culture of segregation. Authors include Mark Twain, Nella Larsen, William Faulkner, and Richard Wright. ENGL 0710Q S01 Primary Instructor Murray Shakespeare, Love and Friendship Shakespeare portrays friends who are compared to a "double cherry"; a lover who wants to cut her beloved out in little stars; and subjects who sweat with desire to see their kings. How does Shakespeare imagine the possibilities and pitfalls of affection, whether personal or political? What happens to that affection when Shakespeare is adapted into film? ENGL 1311G S01 Primary Instructor Kuzner England and the Renaissance New approaches to Latin and Greek letters—the studia humanitatis—that flourished in 14th century Italy rapidly emerged in England in the early 16th century. What does it mean to claim that England had a renaissance? Texts include More's Utopia and Richard III, Erasmus’s Praise of Folly, Ascham’s Scholemaster, poetry from Wyatt and Surrey through Jonson, Donne, Herrick, and Milton. ENGL 1311N S01 Primary meeting Mon/Wed with online CANVAS discussions on Fridays. Primary Instructor Foley Spenser and Shakespeare A comparative study of theme, form, and genre based upon paired works: Shakespeare’s Sonnets/ Amoretti; Faerie Queene I/King Lear; Faerie Queene III/Twelfth Night, Midsummer Night’s Dream, Winter's Tale, Tempest, Venus and Adonis; Shepheardes Calender/As You Like It. Weekly short interpretative exercises (250-500 words) submitted as CANVAS discussions; draft (1250 words) and final essay (3000 words). Enrollment limited to 20. ENGL 1361F S01 Primary Instructor Foley Realism, Modernism, Postmodernism: The American Novel and its Traditions This course charts the course of American novel from the Civil War to the present. We will attend to the development of a distinctly novelistic literary tradition in American writing over the period and to the interactions between this tradition of literary novel writing and the emergence commercial novelistic generic forms (ie. the detective novel, science fiction). We will also consider the novel’s relations to alternative literary modes (narrative history, the sketch, the short story, the occasional essay) and to alternative media (film, television, music). Melville, Twain, DuBois, James, Fitzgerald, Hammett, Hurston, Wright, Nabokov, Butler, Morrison, Dick, Didion. ENGL 1511P S01 Primary lecture Mon/Wed and select ONE Friday conference section. Primary Instructor Nabers ENGL 1511P C01 Primary Instructor Nabers Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 1511P C02 Primary Instructor Gallardo Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 1511P C03 Primary Instructor Ben-Meir Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 1511P C04 Primary Instructor Marsh Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference In Excess: Rossetti, Hopkins, Wilde This seminar will be a focused close reading of three late Victorian writers whose works might be described as radically excessive insofar as they transgress and push beyond the limits of social, ethical, aesthetic, sexual, and political conventions. What does it mean to describe a text as excessive, and how can excess be considered as a constitutive part of its form? We will concentrate on poetry, plays, and theoretical texts, putting our authors into conversation with contemporary thinkers of excess. Enrollment limited to 20. ENGL 1561Y S01 Primary Instructor Khalip Modern African Literature This course considers themes, antecedents, and contexts of modern African literature and related forms. Our readings will include fiction in English or in translation, traditional oral forms like panegyric and festival poetry, and some films. We will examine how these diverse materials explore the interplay of ethnicity, nationality, and race. We will also address the issue of "tradition" in contexts where nationalisms of various stripes are becoming stronger, even as the world becomes more interconnected through trade, immigration, and digital technology. Authors will include Achebe, Adichie, Dangarembga, Kourouma, Ngugi, Salih, Soyinka, Wicomb. Films by Kouyaté, Loreau, Sembène. ENGL 1710J S01 Primary Instructor George The Literature and Culture of Black Power Reconsidered This course reexamines the Black Power movement as a signal development in American literature and culture. We will read classics from the period with a view toward reassessing the nuances and complexities of their form and politics. At the same time, we will recover less familiar texts that complicate conventional understandings of what defines this movement. Authors include Malcolm X, Huey P. Newton, Angela Davis, Eldridge Cleaver, John Edgar Wideman, Ernest Gaines, and Amiri Baraka. ENGL 1710P S01 Primary Instructor Murray Medieval Manuscript Studies: Paleography, Codicology, and Interpretation How do you read a medieval manuscript? This course teaches hands-on methodologies for deciphering the material text, including palaeography (history of scripts) and codicology (archeology of the book); contemporary models of interpreting scribal texts, including editorial theory and analysis of readers' reception; and medieval concepts of textuality and interpretation, including medieval theories of authorship and the arts of memory. Prior course work in Middle English or Latin or other medieval language recommended. Not open to first-year students. Enrollment limited to 20. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1900Y S01 Primary Instructor Bryan Neuroaesthetics and Reading Analysis of the theories of art, reading, and aesthetic experience proposed by neuroscience and cognitive science in light of traditional aesthetics and contemporary literary theory. Enrollment limited to 20. Prerequisite: At least one course on neuroscience or cognitive science and one 1000-level literature course. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1900Z S01 Primary Instructor Armstrong Cronenberg/Lynch A genre-oriented study of two major contemporary expressionist filmmakers, David Cronenberg and David Lynch, by means of juxtaposing some of their key works. Films by Cronenberg: “The Fly,” “Videodrome,” “Crash,” “A Dangerous Method,” and “Maps to the Stars.” Films by Lynch: “Eraserhead,” “Blue Velvet,” “Wild at Heart,” “Mulholland Drive,” and “Inland Empire.” Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1901L S01 Primary Instructor Rambuss The Sublime This course tracks the notion of the sublime from its classical sources through eighteenth-century British and German poetry and philosophy, to twentieth-century theory, with some consideration of the visual arts and other media. Authors to be studied include Longinus, Milton, Burke, Wordsworth, Kant, Hegel, Derrida, Lyotard, Jameson, among others. Enrollment limited to 20 juniors and seniors. ENGL 1901N S01 Primary Instructor Redfield Waves and Edges: Poetry and the Sea In her poem “The Map” Elizabeth Bishop writes: “Land lies in water; it is shadowed green. / Shadows, or are they shallows, at its edges / showing the line of long sea-weeded ledges…” This class will examine how such edges between sea and land can be thought and represented in poetic texts, while also considering environmental effects of climate change. ENGL 1901P S01 Primary Instructor Smailbegovic Persons and Things in Early Modern England What was legal personhood in early modern England and who did it include? Was it always bad to be treated like a thing? What did legal and literary fictions have in common? We will examine the interplay between early modern persons and things, considering literary examples of subjectification, objectification, and anthropomorphism as they relate to questions of pleasure and value. Enrollment limited to 15. ENGL 2361D S01 Primary Instructor Scozzaro Technologies of Memory From archives to monuments, photographs to films, sound recordings to selfies to Twitter feeds, modern life has reached a saturation point of object-driven memory. This course examines modes of capturing memory in the 20th and 21st centuries, and asks what replaces the medieval memory palace as an imaginary habitat for recollection. Enrollment limited to 15. ENGL 2901R S01 Primary Instructor Burrows The Art of Craft What can traditional crafts teach us about our writing? How does building a house or stitching a quilt help us appreciate the ways we can build creative texts? We will consider such questions to help us reflect on our writing as a craft, to invest the key tenets of craft in our writing process, style, and form, and to forge an innovative portfolio of work of which we can feel justly proud. Writing sample required. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Instructor permission required. S/NC. ENGL 1190Z S01 Primary Instructor Ward Nature Writing This course seeks to develop your skills as a sensitive reader and writer of the natural world. You will build a portfolio of revised work through a process of workshops, tutorials, and conferences, and engage in discussion of a range of written and visual narratives with reference to their personal, political, and ecological contexts. Writing sample required. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. S/NC. ENGL 1190U S01 Primary Instructor Rush Writing for Activists How can writing support and further change? In this course students will practice grant applications, budget narratives, mission and strategy statements, press releases, position papers, op-eds, and other writing strategies with practical application in activist work. We’ll read examples and theoretical grounding, and guest speakers will introduce us to writings and needs specific to a range of fields. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Instructor permission required. S/NC. ENGL 1140E S01 Primary Instructor Schapira Reporting Crime and Justice Crime and justice stories are people stories. The drama of everyday life is played out every day in courtrooms. This advanced journalism course will get students into the courtrooms, case files and archives of Rhode Island's judicial system and into committee hearings at the State House where they will report on stories that incorporate drama, tension, and narrative storytelling. Prerequisite: ENGL1050G, ENGL1050H or ENGL1160A (Advanced Feature Writing). Enrollment limited to 17. Instructor permission required. Preference will be given to English concentrators. S/NC. ENGL 1160F S01 Primary Instructor Breton Special Delivery: Letters and Diaries For the advanced writer. While letters and diaries are constrained by "dailiness"--the writer's informal situation in time--they often form the basis of more formal communications, including the novel. We will keep diaries as self-conscious intellectual enterprises and write letters to address their roles in various literary modes. The final project will be an epistolary essay incorporating structures and motifs from both sub-genres. Writing sample required. Instructor permission required. Prerequisite: ENGL0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor permission. S/NC. ENGL 1180M S01 Primary Instructor DeBoer-Langworthy Anne Carson, Maggie Nelson, Claudia Rankine This advanced writing workshop will consider hybridity and formal experimentation through the work of three prominent contemporary practitioners. We’ll examine how the range of formal strategies these authors employ resist the limitations of genre and category, invent new ways of reading and writing nonfiction, and create space for a broader, more inclusive, more expansive possibilities for representing lived experience. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Writing sample will be administered on the first day of class. Not open to first-year students. Instructor permission required. S/NC. ENGL 1180X S01 Primary Instructor Arnold My So-Called Life: The Art of the Literary Memoir The literary memoir offers students inspiration and warning as to the possibilities and limits of using their own experience as text. We study personal essays, narratives, and prose poems by a variety of writers. Advanced writers only. Writing sample required on first day of class. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Instructor permission required. S/NC. ENGL 1190F S01 Primary Instructor Arnold Introduction to Creative Nonfiction Designed to familiarize students with the techniques and narrative structures of creative nonfiction. Reading and writing focus on personal essays, memoir, science writing, travel writing, and other related subgenres. May serve as preparation for any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Writing sample may be required. Enrollment limited. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 0930 S01 Spring 2022: ENGL0930 section 03 is reserved for first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Hardy ENGL 0930 S02 Spring 2022: ENGL0930 section 03 is reserved for first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Readey ENGL 0930 S03 Spring 2022: ENGL0930 section 03 is reserved for first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Rush ENGL 0930 S04 Spring 2022: ENGL0930 section 03 is reserved for first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Ward The Artist in the Archives While artists can benefit greatly from archival work, they are not typically given the tools to make use of these institutions. This writing intensive course takes a two pronged approach to the problem: embedding students in archives both at Brown and RISD to produce creative, lyrical, and multi-media essays; and exploring how artists have used these institutions for information and inspiration. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample may be required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1030F S01 Primary Instructor Stewart Narrative This course offers a broad exploration of the many kinds of essays you can write in creative nonfiction. We will be looking at how authors structure their pieces and the range of narrative techniques they often use. You can expect workshops, in-class prompts and readings by Jamaica Kincaid, John McPhee, David Foster Wallace, Annie Dillard, David Sedaris and others. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1050A S01 Primary Instructor Hardy True Stories This class will allow confident writers to explore and develop their creative nonfiction writing. We'll focus on two structures--nonfiction narratives and essays--with occasional forays into other forms. Students will work simultaneously on several small assignments and two larger, self-directed pieces. Readings will include cultural reportage, lyric memoir, science and nature writing, standard and hybrid essays. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1050B S01 Primary Instructor Schapira Sportswriting This course introduces students to the practice of sportswriting, including writing sports news, features, and columns. Readings will include works by Rick Reilly, Bill Simmons, Frank Deford, Karen Russell, Allison Glock, Tom Wolfe, Hunter S. Thompson, W.C. Heinz, and others. Students will develop skills in analyzing, researching, writing, revising, and workshopping in the genre. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1050E S01 Primary Instructor Readey Line Work: Experiments in Short-Form Writing This class is based on the premise that to improve your writing, you need to write often. By responding to almost daily drills, you will develop a regular writing habit and explore a range of styles. We will take your most successful pieces through a series of workshops, helping you refine your work and ultimately build a writing portfolio. Enrollment limited to 17. Writing sample required. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1050F S01 Primary Instructor Stewart Intellectual Pleasures: Reading/Writing the Literary Text Riffing on the generative tensions between intellectual rigor and aesthetic pleasure, this seminar will examine (through the theoretical framework of cognitive poetics) a richly diverse range of literary texts, from Susan Howe to Beowulf. Our objective: to develop an awareness of language that will reshape how we read and how we write literary texts in various genres. Writing centered. Enrollment limited to 12. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. S/NC. ENGL 1140A S01 Primary Instructor Stanley Critical Reading and Writing I: The Academic Essay An introduction to university-level writing. Students produce and revise multiple drafts of essays, practice essential skills of paragraph organization, and develop techniques of critical analysis and research. Readings from a wide range of texts in literature, the media, and academic disciplines. Assignments move from personal response papers to formal academic essays. Enrollment limited to 17. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 0900 S02 Spring 2022: ENGL 0900 sections 03 and 04 are restricted to first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Stanley ENGL 0900 S03 Spring 2022: ENGL 0900 sections 03 and 04 are restricted to first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Adhikari ENGL 0900 S04 Spring 2022: ENGL 0900 sections 03 and 04 are restricted to first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Lasasso ENGL 0900 S05 Spring 2022: ENGL 0900 sections 03 and 04 are restricted to first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Mcnish ENGL 0900 S06 Spring 2022: ENGL 0900 sections 03 and 04 are restricted to first-year and sophomore students. Primary Instructor Holman Advanced Creative Nonfiction: Biography Biography, one of the oldest forms of creative nonfiction, tells the life story of a person, idea, place, or thing. We consider old and new forms of biography, experiment with those forms, and practice them as a method of inquiry as well as presentation of self. We also explore biography’s connection to journalism, autobiography, memoir, and history. Prerequisite: ENGL 0930 or any 1000-level nonfiction writing course. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed during the first week of classes. Preference will be given to English concentrators. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1190C S01 Primary Instructor DeBoer-Langworthy Writing the Family “You must not tell anyone” writes Hong Kingston’s auto-fictional narrator—and then a book of family secrets follows. This class examines how authors (authorized or not) use their families as subject matter, storying family and family life. Over the term, we’ll work on developing a practical and theoretical ethics of family-writing while contextualizing and practicing writing nonfiction about the family. Enrollment limited to 17. No prerequisites. Writing sample required. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1050Q S01 Primary Instructor Hipchen How To Read A Poem It is difficult to get the news from poems/ yet men die miserably every day/ for lack/ of what is found there. Poet William Carlos Williams captures this course’s focus on the special ways that poetic language represents and gives shape to human experience. Organized around concepts and practical skills, the readings cross historical and geographical boundaries. ENGL 0100A S01 All ENGL 0100s will be temp capped at 100 with reserved seating/registration as follows: For the SPRING term: semester-level 02/04 = 25 each; and 01/03 = 5 each Yielding: 60 total (40 remaining spots for upper-levels: seniors/juniors) Primary Instructor Rabb Matters of Romance Narratives (1100-1500) of men, women, and elves seeking identity on the road, in bed, and at court. Readings (in modern English) include Arthurian romances, Havelok, lais by Marie de France, and Chaucer's "Wife of Bath's Tale." Primarily for freshmen and sophomores. Students should register for ENGL 0100D S01 and may be assigned to conference sections by the instructor during the first week of class. ENGL 0100D S01 All ENGL 0100s will be temp capped at 100 with reserved seating/registration as follows: For the SPRING term: semester-level 02/04 = 25 each; and 01/03 = 5 each Yielding: 60 total (40 remaining spots for upper-levels: seniors/juniors) Primary Instructor Bryan Inventing Asian American Literature What insights can literature provide into the complicated workings of race in America? What role can the invention of a literary tradition play in illuminating and rectifying past and present injustices? We explore these questions by examining how the idea of an Asian American literary tradition came into being and by reading influential works that have become part of its canon. Students should register for ENGL 0100V S01 and may be assigned to conference sections by the instructor during the first week of class. ENGL 0100V S01 Primary lecture Mon/Wed and select ONE Friday conference section. All ENGL 0100s will be temp capped at 100 with reserved seating/registration as follows: For the SPRING term: semester-level 02/04 = 25 each; and 01/03 = 5 each Yielding: 60 total (40 remaining spots for upper-levels: seniors/juniors) Primary Instructor Kim ENGL 0100V C01 Primary Instructor Kim Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 0100V C02 Primary Instructor Manansala Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 0100V C03 Primary Instructor Javaid Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference ENGL 0100V C04 Primary Instructor Dun Schedule Code C: Discussion Section/Conference Senior Honors Thesis in English Independent research and writing under the direction of a faculty member. Permission should be obtained from the Honors Advisor in English. Open to senior English concentrators pursuing Honors in English. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1992 S01 Primary Instructor Khalip Senior Honors Thesis in Nonfiction Writing Independent research and writing under the direction of the student’s Nonfiction Writing honors supervisor. Permission should be obtained from the Honors Advisor for Nonfiction Writing. Open to senior English concentrators pursuing Honors in Nonfiction Writing. Instructor permission required. ENGL 1994 S01 Primary Instructor Schapira Modernism and Race An exploration of the ways in which assumptions about racial difference are perpetuated or challenged by modernist experiments in form. Readings include W. E. B. DuBois, Joseph Conrad, Langston Hughes, Gertrude Stein, Nella Larsen, William Faulkner, and Richard Wright. ENGL 0700U S01 Primary Instructor Armstrong Poetic Modernisms: Now! This course is a survey of modernist poetry that explores how key works by figures such as Langston Hughes, Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, William Carlos Williams, and Marianne Moore have continued to shape poetic forms and possibilities throughout the twentieth century and into the contemporary moment. ENGL 1711Q S01 Primary Instructor Smailbegovic Somebodies, Nobodies, and Other Others: 18th-Century Women's Writing Women wrote and published in unprecedented numbers for the first time during the eighteenth century. Recovery of their important work is ongoing. Revolution, globalization, and other changes in private and public life prompted writers like Elizabeth Haywood, Mary Montagu, Ann Finch, Charlotte Lennox, Frances Sheridan, Mary Wollstonecraft, Frances Burney to redefine gender roles and challenge cultural prohibitions against female authorship. Enrollment limited to 20. ENGL 1562B S01 Primary Instructor Rabb Courses of Interest to Students Concentrating in English These courses, offered in other departments, are cross listed with the English Department and do not require advisor approval to count toward the concentration for English concentrators. Please refer to the primary department for registration details. Ethnic Studies ETHN 1751B Feeling Minor ENGL XLIST 0 Postcolonial Theory In this introduction to postcolonial theory we will consider key Western sources (Hegel, Marx, Lacan, Levi Strauss, Emmanuel Levinas); anticolonial manifestos (Gandhi, Fanon, Césaire, Memmi); political and ethical practices (civil disobedience, armed struggle, friendship). In addition to canonical critics (Said, Bhabha, Spivak), the course will review new interests in the field (transnationalism, non-western imperialisms, the environmental turn). Offered as a collaborative humanities seminar in Spring 2022, Postcolonial Theory will host and think with a series of guest scholars. ENGL 2900X S01 Primary Instructor Gandhi American Degenerates Colonial British-Americans were called, among other names, monstrous, wild, impotent, and grotesque. They could not, it was said, produce writing worth reading. We will explore the ways in which American writers embraced and/or challenged these charges of cultural and bodily degeneracy. In the process, we will examine the development of modern notions of literature and identity. Students should register for ENGL 1310B S01 and may be assigned to conference sections by the instructor during the first week of classes. ENGL 1310B S01 Primary Instructor Egan Risk/Rupture/Remains: Contemporary Queer Media and Poetics How can we imagine life in a world preoccupied with queer and trans loss? This course introduces contemporary experiments in queer and trans survival across poetry, film, theory, and video games. We will read, watch, and play with particular attention to Black and Indigenous art in the ongoing HIV/AIDS epidemic. Artists may include Dionne Brand, David Wojnarowicz, CAConrad, and Porpentine. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200A S01 Primary Instructor Jackshaw Literature and the Social Contract This course considers imaginative works (short stories, novellas, films) through the prism of moral and political philosophy. We will focus on how representations of right and obligation inform notions of self, other, and the il/legitimacy of authority. Readings include: Hobbes, Rousseau, Kafka, Adichie, Mann, Melville, Orwell, Octavia Butler, Rawls, Le Guin, Yuri Herrera, Murayama, and Agamben. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200D S01 Primary Instructor Quirk Wild and Unruly: Black Women’s Belonging, Place, and Self in Storytelling How are belonging, place (or geography), and self expressed by women of African descent across the Black Atlantic? How do literature and other cultural productions help black women creatively navigate senses of self and place? Through the lens of the wild and unruly, this class asks how black women find new ways of expressing the human existence. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200F S01 Primary Instructor Sobande Comedy and Cruelty Modernity is often conceived as tragedy—this course imagines otherwise. We will explore the usefulness of the comic frame in the wake of (economic, political, environmental) disaster through 20th-/21st century novels/films by Joseph Conrad, Frank Capra, Ralph Ellison, Samuel Selvon, Paul Beatty, Jordan Peele, Anna Burns, Bong Joon-Ho. This class investigates the possibility of joy in an age of disappointment. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200W S01 Primary Instructor Ciccone Show Me the Money: Advertising and Capitalism in American Literature This course examines the intersections of capitalism and advertising in 19th and 20th century American Literature. Central to this investigation will be questions of identity and representation. Each class begins with a discussion around a print, digital, or video advertisement, and engages a variety of works and authors including Harriet Jacobs, Henry James, Herman Melville, Mad Men, amongst others. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200Y S01 This course is being offered online-only. Primary Instructor Halstead Giving way: Poetry, Performance, Film This course will engage with artistic forms that creatively respond to the present by both heeding its demands while also expressing alternatives to its norms. They map out, figure, and perform various (im)possibilities of existence. Our archive, informed by artists such as Adrian Piper and Lyn Hejinian, will consist of apparitional experience, ecstatic dance, magical sentences, etc. Enrollment limited to 17. ENGL 0200E S01 Primary Instructor Rosenberg Medieval Race In this course, we will explore the historically specific contours of race in England and interrelated cultural regions during the High and Late Middle Ages, as well as learn and practice how to read Middle English. No previous knowledge of medieval literature or Middle English necessary. Not open to first-year students. Enrollment limited to 20. ENGL 1361Q S01 Primary Instructor Min You Better Work: Sexuality, Labor, Blackness This seminar takes a historical, theoretical, and interdisciplinary approach to sexuality, labor, and blackness in the United States. We will engage in black feminist, trans, and queer methodologies of selected literature, film, and artwork while we also consider the limits of labor as a conceptual apparatus. Thinkers include Samuel R. Delany, Saidiya Hartman, Gayl Jones, Audre Lorde, Toni Morrison, Tourmaline. Open to juniors and seniors only. Enrollment limited to 20. ENGL 1901Q S01 Primary Instructor Reid Literature and Social Mobility This class examines cultural narratives about people who rise, fall, or remain stuck within systems of social stratification. We'll consider how such stories are celebrated, critiqued, or otherwise used to make a point about the nature of wealth, debt, discrimination, assimilation, merit, or luck. Readings will consist of novels and memoirs, along with material from disciplines like sociology and economics. ENGL 0711D S01 Primary Instructor Gastiger New and Imagined Worlds in the English Renaissance In the centuries following the “discovery” of the Novus Mundus or “New World,” European playwrights, poets and thinkers created a startling diversity of their own “new” or imagined worlds, which sometimes took license from fantastic contemporary reports of overseas discoveries. How do imagined lands comment upon our own? What freedoms and possibilities arise from the ability to imagine alternative worlds? ENGL 0310H S01 Primary Instructor Yates Journalistic Writing This course teaches students how to report and write hard news and feature stories for newspapers and online. Students learn to gather and organize material, develop interviewing techniques, and hone their writing skills – all while facing the deadlines of journalism. The first half of the semester focuses on “hard" news: issues, crime, government, and courts. The second half is devoted to features, profiles, and narrative story telling. Writing sample required. Class list will be reduced to 17 after writing samples are reviewed in first week of classes. Banner registrations after classes begin require instructor approval. S/NC. ENGL 1050H S02 This course is reserved for first-year and sophomore students only. Primary Instructor Batten Home Faculty Office Hours Undergraduate Graduate Nonfiction Writing Program Courses Course Prospectuses Choosing an Introductory English Course Spring 2022 New Literature Courses Nonfiction Writing Course Descriptions Course Designations Contact Us Media Events Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box 1852 70 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2393 Fax 401-863-7412 English Events There are currently no events to display. View events archive. View Full Calendar Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Helpful Links Graduate School Literary Arts Banner Course Listings Course Preview Pages