Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Contraception Cervical Cap What is a cervical cap? The brand of cervical cap available in the US is the FemCap. The FemCap is a silicone cup shaped like a sailor's hat that fits securely in the vagina to cover the cervix. As with a diaphragm, it is necessary to use a small amount of spermicidal cream or gel with this method. How does it work? Cervical caps act as a physical and a chemical barrier, similar to the diaphragm, to prevent sperm from entering the uterus and fertilizing an egg. They must be used with spermicidal cream or jelly which helps inactivate sperm. How effective are they in preventing pregnancy and STIs? The typical pregnancy rate (which includes imperfect insertion and inconsistent use) for cervical cap users who have never given birth is 16% per year (meaning that the device is 84% effective at preventing pregnancy); the perfect use pregnancy rate is 9% per year. Pregnancy rates for users who have given birth are 32% for typical use and 26% perfect use. The difference in rates is because the cervix is bigger after childbirth and the cap may not fit as well. It is important to consider that this method does not offer any protection against sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Using a condom along with a cervical cap will provide you with STI protection and also further decrease the possibility of pregnancy. How do I use them? Insert the FemCap no more than 24 hours before sexual intercourse. Before use, hold it up to the light and look closely for holes or weak spots. Put 1/4 teaspoon of spermicide cream or jelly in the dome of the Fem Cap, spread a thin layer on the brim, and put 1/2 teaspoon in the folded area between the brim and the dome. Insert the Fem Cap in the vagina with the long brim entering first and the dome-side down. Push towards the rectum and then up and onto the cervix. Do not remove the Fem Cap for at least 8 hours after intercourse. It can be worn for up to 48 hours. During this time, you can have sex again, just make sure the Fem Cap is still in place and and you can insert more spermicide into your vagina if you like. To remove, grip the removal strap and rotate Fem Cap. Push on the dome with your finger to break the suction. Hook your finger under the removal strap and pull it out. After each use, clean the cap with mild soap and let it air dry. Store it in a dry place, away from heat and light. You will need to replace the FemCap after 2 years or sooner if you notice any tears or holes. What are some advantages? Cervical caps are non-hormonal barrier methods. They are effective immediately and can be reversed immediately. They may help make sex more spontaneous because they can be inserted ahead of time and left in for up to 2 days. They are inexpensive and reusable. Using these methods increases familiarity with one's vagina and cervix. These methods can be used during breastfeeding. What are some disadvantages? They cannot be used during menstruation. Some users may have difficulty inserting them correctly. Occasionally, they may come off during intercourse or a bowel movement. This method requires a prescription from your medical provider. Some users who use the cap may develop vaginal irritation. This can be a sign of an allergy to the spermicide. If you have a mild reaction to spermicide, try switching brands to clear up the problem. Some users or their partners may feel pain or discomfort when using the cervical cap. What are the possible side effects? Serious problems are very rare when you use the cervical cap. Check with your health care provider (Brown students can call Health Services at 401.863-1330) if you: feel a burning sensation while urinating are uncomfortable when the cervical cap is in place have irregular spotting and bleeding feel irritation or itching in the genital area have redness or swelling of the vulva or vagina have unusual discharge from the vagina These symptoms may be a sign of infection or other condition. Most conditions are easily treated. Where can I get a cervical cap? Because cervixes come in different sizes, the cervical cap needs to be fitted individually by a medical provider. The fit should be checked during a pelvic exam each year and/or after every pregnancy. The FemCap comes in 3 sizes and these sizes may not fit all. If you are interested in being fitted for a cervical cap, a medical provider at Health Services can discuss this with you and give you a referral. Related Links If you want to learn more about cervical caps, you can visit: Planned Parenthood Fem Cap About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook