For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / Home / About the Libraries / Policy / Computer Use Policy Info Computer Use Policy The University Libraries supports the University's teaching, research, and clinical functions. The Libraries' public computer equipment is provided to enable library users to access the collections and other information resources and services in support of curriculum and research needs. The following rules apply to use of computers within the Libraries and supplement and interpret University-wide policies on use of computing resources http://www.washington.edu/computing/rules.html First priority for use of computers is accorded to University of Washington students, faculty, and staff. Use of computing resources is a privilege that depends on individuals using the resources appropriately and in accordance with University policies and local, state, and federal laws. These laws and policies cover such areas as illegal access to computer systems, networks, and files, copyright, and harassment issues. http://www.washington.edu/computing/rules.html At times, the demand for library computer equipment exceeds availability. You are asked to be sensitive to the needs of others and limit equipment use during times of heavy demand. The Libraries may take additional steps to regulate computer use, such as restricting email access or setting time limits. Due to the public nature of the Libraries, individuals should demonstrate respect for individuals’ rights to privacy and freedom from intimidation or harassment. You are asked to be sensitive to the fact that some on-screen images, sounds, or messages create an atmosphere of intimidation or harassment for others. The Libraries may take steps to maintain an environment conducive to study and research. Use of computer equipment for recreational purposes such as game playing deters others from using workstations for educational or research purposes, and otherwise makes the Libraries less conducive to study. Libraries may intervene to ensure optimal access to computers for educational and research purposes. Bypassing the filtering of web sites on guest research stations is a misappropriation of this equipment and is not allowed. UW students, faculty, and staff have priority use of this equipment. We welcome the use of laptops and other personal computing devices in the Libraries. Users may connect personal equipment only to the wireless network, or to ports designated for such use. Users may not unplug any Libraries’ equipment or cables for any reason. Use of personal equipment, such as extension, adaptor, or power cords must not pose a safety hazard for others. If you fail to comply with the conditions of this policy, you may be subject to actions outlined in the Libraries Code of Conduct, University Libraries Operations Manual, Policy on Library Disruptions, Vol. 1, Section B, No. 4, Appendix A. (Lib. 76), http://www.lib.washington.edu/about/codeofconduct.html Last reviewed and updated: March 2015 Policy Links Borrowing & Access Code of Conduct Computer Use Policy Creative Commons License Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Food, Drink, and Tobacco Policy Meeting, Conference, and Event Facilities Photography and Videography Policy: Seattle Campus Policy for conducting surveys and assessments in the University of Washington Libraries Privacy Statement Public Art Policy Responsible Use of Business Databases Responsible Use of Electronic Resources Study Spaces UW Libraries Exhibits Policy University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.