Refine Your Search/Search Our Site About & Contact Subjects & Series Catalogs eBooks News Order Rights Permissions Support the Press Cart: [0] Resources for: Authors Booksellers & Librarians Educators Journalists Readers The Classical Debt Greek Antiquity in an Era of Austerity Johanna Hanink Add to Cart Product Details HARDCOVER $40.00 • £32.95 • €36.00 ISBN 9780674971547 Publication Date: 05/22/2017 Trade 352 pages 5-1/2 x 8-1/4 inches 26 halftones Belknap Press World Related Subjects HISTORY: Ancient: Greece BUSINESS & ECONOMICS: Economic Conditions POLITICAL SCIENCE: Commentary & Opinion HISTORY: Historiography About This Book About the Author(s) Reviews Table of Contents Ever since the International Monetary Fund’s first bailout of Greece’s sinking economy in 2010, the phrase “Greek debt” has meant one thing to the country’s creditors. But for millions who claim to prize culture over capital, it means something quite different: the symbolic debt that Western civilization owes to Greece for furnishing its principles of democracy, philosophy, mathematics, and fine art. Where did this other idea of Greek debt come from, Johanna Hanink asks, and why does it remain so compelling today? The Classical Debt investigates our abiding desire to view Greece through the lens of the ancient past. Though classical Athens was in reality a slave-owning imperial power, the city-state of Socrates and Pericles is still widely seen as a utopia of wisdom, justice, and beauty—an idealization that the ancient Athenians themselves assiduously cultivated. Greece’s allure as a travel destination dates back centuries, and Hanink examines many historical accounts that express disappointment with a Greek people who fail to live up to modern fantasies of the ancient past. More than any other movement, the spread of European philhellenism in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries carved idealized conceptions of Greece in marble, reinforcing the Western habit of comparing the Greece that is with the Greece that once was. Today, as the European Union teeters and neighboring nations are convulsed by political unrest and civil war, Greece finds itself burdened by economic hardship and an unprecedented refugee crisis. Our idealized image of ancient Greece dangerously shapes how we view these contemporary European problems. Related Links Listen to an interview with Johanna Hanink on the The Distant Pasts podcast At the Greek News Agenda’s Rethinking Greece blog, read a conversation with Hanink about the notion of cultural indebtedness and its political character, classicists and their responsibility to dissuade people from “dwelling too much on Greek antiquity,” the imagined concept of the “original” Athenian democracy, and the long history of recorded disappointment in “modern” Greeks At Aeon, read Hanink on the surprisingly ancient origins of Greek nostalgia for the greatness of its past At Eidolon, read Hanink’s argument that—in a discipline that promotes professional fluency in French, Italian, and German so as to keep abreast of current scholarship—colonialism is the only reason Modern Greek still lacks a seat at the classicists’ table Read Hanink’s work at Eidolon, “an online journal for scholarly writing about Classics that isn’t formal scholarship” Buy Elsewhere Bookshop.org » Amazon » Barnes & Noble » Find at a Library »Cite This Book » About HUP eBooks About Exam Copies Awards & Accolades A New Statesman Best Book of 2017 Recent News Vivek Chibber, author of The Class Matrix: Social Theory after the Cultural Turn, spoke with The Nation about the future of Marxist thought. The End of Astronauts coauthors Donald Goldsmith and Sir Martin Rees made the case to Science Friday’s Ira Flatow that the cost of human space travel largely outweighs its benefits. Alessio Terzi, author of Growth for Good: Reshaping Capitalism to Save Humanity from Climate Catastrophe, argued in Foreign Policy that the energy crisis catalyzed by Russia’s attack on Ukraine does not necessarily undermine the world’s overall green transition—as long as governments remain firm in their commitments to long-term climate targets. Indentured Students author Elizabeth Tandy Shermer spoke with Public Books about the “private pain, public disinvestment” of student debt. Black lives matter. Black voices matter. A statement from HUP » From Our Blog Five Reasons Why You Should Read Thomas Piketty’s A Brief History of Equality In his surprising and powerful new work, A Brief History of Equality, Thomas Piketty reminds us that the grand sweep of history gives us reasons to be optimistic. Over the centuries, he shows, we have been moving toward greater equality. We asked him about his impassioned new book: why he wrote it, how it’s optimistic, and what we need to do to continue making progress on creating an equitable world. … Subscribe to E-News Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library I Tatti Renaissance Library Loeb Classical Library Murty Classical Library of India About & Contact | Awards | Catalogs | Conference Exhibits | eBooks | Exam Copies | News | Order | Rights | Permissions | Search | Shopping Cart | Subjects & Series Resources for: Authors | Booksellers & Librarians | Educators | Journalists | Readers Harvard University Press offices are located at 79 Garden Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA & 8 Coldbath Square, London EC1R 5HL UK © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College | HUP Privacy Policy • HU Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures A Message from HUP about COVID-19 (April 2020)