Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Professional & Lifelong Learning Business Analytics Certificate The Harvard Business Analytics Program is offered through a collaboration between Harvard Business School (HBS), the John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS), and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS). Designed for aspiring and established leaders in any industry, the program leverages a rigorous cross-disciplinary curriculum to help students not just analyze data but understand it, translate it, and incorporate it into strategy at the top levels of their organizations. Students benefit from world-class instruction in courses designed by esteemed Harvard faculty and collaborate with diverse peers in highly interactive online classes. In addition, students attend two in-person immersions hosted at Harvard Business School, where they formulate solutions to real-world business scenarios and develop a network of data-minded business leaders. Students emerge from the program poised to advance into analytics-focused leadership roles and drive disruptive innovation through data. To learn more about this program, visit https://analytics.hbs.edu/form Business Analytics Certificate Leading in Artificial Intelligence: Exploring Technology and Policy The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) is expanding into nearly every sector of society—from healthcare and finance to transportation and government services. Yet, most decision makers do not fully understand how these technologies work, nor fully grasp the potential unintended consequences of their application. Public trust in AI and ML requires that leaders understand and address questions around fairness, privacy, and bias. Created jointly by the John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and Harvard Kennedy School, Leading in Artificial Intelligence: Exploring Technology and Policy provides leaders with the tools and resources to better navigate this uncharted territory. This new executive program will strengthen participants’ capacity to lead in AI, including how to mitigate risk without inhibiting innovation. To learn more about this program, visit https://www.hks.harvard.edu/educational-programs/executive-education/leading-artificial-intelligence Leading in Artificial Intelligence Harvard X: Certificates, Courses, & Programs Applications of TinyML Computer Science for Web Programming Computer Science for Artificial Intelligence Computer Science for Game Development Computer Science and Mobile Apps The Climate-Energy Challenge CS50's AP® Computer Science Principles CS50's Computer Science for Business Professionals CS50's Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Python CS50's Introduction to Computer Science CS50's Introduction to Game Development CS50's Mobile App Development with React Native CS50's Introduction to Programming with Scratch CS50 for Lawyers CS50's Understanding Technology CS50's Web Programming with Python and JavaScript Deploying TinyML Energy Within Environmental Constraints Food Fermentation: The Science of Cooking with Microbes Science and Cooking Tiny Machine Learning (TinyML) Harvard X Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy