Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Leave of Absence Absences greater than five business days* require an employee to go through the leave request process. Below is a detailed listing of reasons that an employee may request a leave of absence. Leave Types Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA**): Employees may request FMLA leave for their own serious medical condition, a covered family member’s serious medical condition, or parental leave***. FMLA leave provides job protection and benefit continuation up to 12 weeks for employees that have at least one year of service and work at least 1250 hours per year. Personal Leave: Employees may request personal leave when the need to be out of work is for personal reasons not covered under FMLA or STD. Personal leave is granted at the discretion of the University and may have an impact on your benefits. Administrative Leave: May only be initiated by University Human Resources. Special Assignment: Employees may request special assignment leave for up to three or six months. Special leave may only be granted when the assignment will be of value to Brown. * This does not include pre-approved vacation time off. ** This is Rhode Island Parental and Family Medical Leave (RIPFML) – RI state law similar to FMLA, but offers 13 weeks of protection and runs concurrent with FMLA. *** Birth of child, adoption, foster, and bonding. Documentation While on a Leave of Absence Leave requests require some form of documentation. Please see the documentation requirements by leave type below: Family Medical Leave Act Own medical condition: Healthcare Certification Form and return to work note****. Family member: Healthcare Certification Form Certification of Qualifying Exigency for Military Family Leave Certification for Serious Injury or Illness if a Veteran for Military Caregiver Leave Certification for Serious Injury or Illness Current Service Member for Military Caregiver Leav Personal Leave You must provide a detailed formal written request to your manager, HR Business Partner, and Employee and Labor Relations team member from which you must receive a formal approval letter. If required, a Healthcare Certification Form is completed by the care provider and should be faxed to: University Human Resources Attn: Absence Specialist Fax: 401-863-2830 **** Employees returning from leave for their own serious medical condition must provide a return to work note to their manager prior to performing any work. This note must be completed by the care provider. Pay While on a Leave of Absence Leaves of absence are unpaid. However, employees may elect to use accrued time off during leave to continue pay. Employees may also be eligible to apply for state benefits. Time off may be requested concurrently with a leave of absence as outlined below: Family Medical Leave Act Employee’s own medical condition: Sick time off Vacation time off Care for a seriously ill parent, spouse, or child: Sick time off (up to 12 days) Vacation time off Birth of child, adoption, foster, bonding: Sick time off Vacation time off Parental Leave Benefit (eligible employees) Personal Leave Vacation time off Temporary Disability Insurance (TDI) / Temporary Caregiver Insurance (TCI) Rhode Island employees***** may file a claim with RI state to receive benefit payments if on leave for their own medical condition (TDI) or to care for a covered family member (TCI). Temporary Disability Insurance (TDI) - Employee’s own medical condition: May provide up to 60% of an employee’s salary while medically unable to work Maximum weekly benefit rate of $887 (subject to change) May provide up to 30 weeks of payment (with continued medical support) Is not subject to federal and state income tax Temporary Caregiver Insurance (TCI) - Care for a covered family member: May provide up to 60% of an employee’s salary Maximum weekly benefit rate of $887 (subject to change) May provide up to 4 weeks of payment in a benefit year period Are subject to federal and state income tax ***** New York based employees may be eligible for New York State Disability Insurance and/or Paid Family Leave benefits . California based employees may be eligible for California State Disability Insurance Program benefits. Related Forms and Documents Leave of Absence Certification Form (Family Member) Leave of Absence Certification Form (Own Medical Condition) Paid Parental Leave FAQs Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Special Leave of Absences Workday Screencasts and Job Aids Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Also in University Human Resources Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Special Leave of Absences Workday Screencasts and Job Aids Educational Benefits Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat