Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education - Uniquely Brown Graduate School Skip to Navigation Open Graduate Education - Uniquely Brown The Open Graduate Education Program allows select Brown doctoral students to pursue a master’s degree in a secondary field. All doctoral students are invited to propose their own combination of studies, free of any disciplinary barrier. The Open Graduate Education program builds on the traditions of free inquiry and collaborative research at Brown. It aligns more closely the training of doctoral students with the spirit of Brown's Open Curriculum for undergraduate students, a cornerstone of the University's pedagogy. The program was launched as a pilot project by the Graduate School in October 2011. The objective of this program is to enable students to combine fields in unique ways and acquire expertise in more than one area. Consequently, there is no constraint on the choice of the secondary field -- as long as the master's program participates in the program -- and the field may be either close to or quite far removed from that of the doctoral studies. The program is designed to enable select doctoral students to write unique dissertations, pursue research, and forge career pathways that require knowledge in more than one field. The overarching goal of the Open Graduate Education program is to provide Brown doctoral students with the opportunity to broaden their intellectual and scholarly horizons, without sacrificing depth of study, as they prepare to launch their careers. The program welcomed its first cohort in the 2012-2013 academic year. As the 2021-2022 academic year begins, we welcome our ninth cohort. There are currently 41 Open Graduate students and 45 program alumni. Current Students | Program Alumni Program Scope and Details Each year, the program allows about 10 doctoral students -- from any discipline -- to pursue a master’s degree in a secondary field. Participants are selected on the basis of an application. Attending an information session is highly encouraged for interested students. To make this additional study possible, the Graduate School will support the component of the student’s effort that is devoted to the secondary field from separate resources. The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation generously provides support for humanities students who participate in the pilot project. See additional financial details included in information for prospective applicants. Information for Prospective Applicants List of participating master's programs Student Application Complete through UFunds; the application is located under the “Graduate School Distinctive Opportunities” button. Required components: CV (or a Word document generated from your GSDCV submission) An attached PDF that addresses the following questions: -Your rationale for the proposed degree combination. -Your career plans and how they could be enabled by the secondary field. -The courses that you plan to take as part of your master’s program. -Your proposed path to complete both the doctoral and master’s degrees within six years (i.e., course sequencing, and which courses in which year). Be as specific as you can. Recommendation from the DGS of your PhD program and DGS of your proposed master's program. If you have been assigned a Research Advisor, an additional recommendation is required from that advisor. In UFunds, under “Request Recommendation From,” please enter the email addresses of the DGS of your PhD program, the DGS of your proposed master’s program, and your Research Advisor (if applicable). Your recommenders will receive emails from [email protected] requesting that they complete recommendation forms to accompany your application. Students interested in seeking a Master’s of Public Health must submit an additional application to the School of Public Health. Application deadline: February 11, 2022 at 5 pm Fall 2021 Information Session Wed., December 8 at 4:00 pm Horace Mann at 47 George St., Room 103 & online (register to attend via Zoom) To learn more about the program and the upcoming application cycle for 2022, please join us for a hybrid information session. Please contact Kirk Robinson for more information or questions. News stories: First cohort selected (March 2012) Nine Students Embark on ‘Open Curriculum’ Path (March, 2013) PhD Students Broaden Goals Via Open Graduate Education (March 2014) 11 PhD Students Embark on ‘Open Graduate’ Journeys (March 2015) PhD Students Embark on 'Open Graduate' Journeys (March 2016) New Class Gains Tools for Innovative Research (March 2017) Open Graduate Education Provides Varied Perspectives, Novel Research, Job Market Advantage (April 2018) Mellon Foundation renews support for Open Graduate Education at Brown (September 2018) From Chemists to Theatre Studies, Eleven Students are Selected for Open Graduate Education (April 2019) “New Cohort of Open Graduate Education Scholars is Selected” (Brown Graduate School” (May 2020) “Open Graduate Education Scholars push academic boundaries through their scholarship” (June 2020) Read what members of the first cohort have to say about the Open Graduate Education program. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Open Graduate Education Travel Research Funding Deans’ Faculty Fellows Program Interdisciplinary Opportunities Teaching Fellowships for Advanced Students Brown Executive Scholars Training Program Effective Performance Workshops Doctoral Certificates Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Current Students Program Alumni FAQs for Students Participating Master's Programs Program Brochure Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants