Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Home > Welcome New Students! New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Engineering Fall 2022 New Student Orientation - TBD We are so excited to welcome you to Columbia! This year's Grad SEAS Welcome Day date will be shared shrotly. This will be your chance to familiarize yourself with the campus and the resources available to you as a member of our community. It will also be a great opportunity for you to meet your peers, as well as some of the faculty you will be learning from during your time at Columbia. Welcome Day is open to all incoming graduate engineering students. Past Welcome Month Events and Activities Engineering Welcome Day/Orientation kick starts our Welcome Month Programming! Throughtout September, Graduate Student Affairs has organized several performances, exhibits, tours, tastings for you to explore. These events are designed to introduce you to New York City and the Columbia Community. The following events are exclusively for incoming Graduate Engineering students at Columbia. There are a limited amount of tickets available for each event. Information about each event and ticket sale dates will be sent to your LionMail account over the summer. Please note that this list is not exhaustive. Events New York Yankee games Boat tours to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island Scavenger hunts around Columbia U.S. Open New York City Football Club games Big Onion and bus tours around the city Evening Socials at Ellington in the Park Dia Beacon Bowling nights Paint N Sip Disability Accommodations Columbia University makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event at Columbia University, please contact Disability Services ([email protected] or 212-854-2388) at least 10 days in advance of the event. Contact Graduate Student Affairs EMAIL: [email protected] PHONE: (212) 854-2993 New Student Checklist (Required Action Items) For new students joining Columbia Engineering, the Office of Graduate Student Affairs has organized a comprehensive orientation program and a checklist to support you. New Student Checklist Immunization Requirements There are several immunization requirements that all students—regardless of credit load—must meet. Students that intend to access campus for any reason at any time, including those registered only for online courses, are subject to this requirement. University Immunization Requirements Keep Our Community Healthy All of us at Columbia—students, faculty, and staff—commit to doing what we can to reduce and stop transmission of COVID-19 within and around the University community. The University commits to doing the same. Columbia Community Health Compact COVID-19 Vaccination COVID-19 vaccination will be mandatory for all students, faculty, and staff who will be present on campus this fall. By August 2, you must provide vaccine documentation or apply for a religious or medical exemption. Vaccine Policy Resources Your Orientation Team Andy Chae, Primary Contact (Fall Orientation) (he/him/his) EMAIL Adrieanna Reyes, Primary Contact (Spring Orientation) (she/her/hers) EMAIL Helena Vaquera, Planning & Logistics (she/her/hers) EMAIL Asst. Dean Yannick Brookes, New Student Requirements (he/him/his) EMAIL Graduate Student Affairs Team Engineering Graduate Student Handbook This student handbook contains most of the policies guiding your tenure as students at Columbia. You are responsible for knowing the contents and following all policies contained within. Graduate Student Handbook HAVE AN EMERGENCY? Call Public Safety at (212) 854-5555 Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University