Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Center for Community Engagement CCE right arrow down arrow Programs right arrow down arrow Bearcat Buddies right arrow down arrow Tutor Resources Bearcat Buddies Lead Tutor Program Bearcat Buddies: Pre-Register Service Learning right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences Service-Learning Volunteer Resources right arrow down arrow Student Groups Scholarship Service Hours FAQ Awards & Scholarships Transportation After Graduation right arrow down arrow Year of Service Opportunities Community Partners right arrow down arrow Community Work Study Social Change right arrow down arrow RAPP Diversity Programming Fund Social Change and Leadership Resources War in Ukraine UC Votes right arrow down arrow UC Votes Resources Staff Home » Campus Life » Center for Community Engagement » Social Change Set Navigation title in component RAPP Diversity Programming Fund Social Change and Leadership Resources War in Ukraine Social Change Social Change at the University of Cincinnati is all about helping students to become inclusive leaders. Our primary Social Change programs and services include: RAPP: This is our flagship program. RAPP is a 7 month program that takes place on Wednesday evenings about twice per month, with optional field trips along the way. The primary outcome for the program is for participants to complete a group social change project of their choosing, based off of their shared values and interests. The Diversity Programming Fund: The Diversity Programming Fund supports programs that reflect the following values: personal and intellectual growth, community, learning, equity & inclusion, and integrity. Each organization is eligible to request funds up to $500 annually. Social Change and Leadership Resources: Includes resources on topics like: anti-racism, LGBTQ issues, feminist leadership, anti-poverty, and on-campus resources. Workshops and dialogues on issues concerning the intersections of social change, social justice, and inclusion. For more information on Social Change, please contact Keith Lanser at keith.lanser@uc.edu. Center for Community Engagement PO Box 210138 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0138 513-556-1559 community.engagement@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Center for Community Engagement PO Box 210138 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0138 513-556-1559 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top