Skip to main content Toggle Tools navigation Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Search University of Cincinnati UC Home Visit UC Support UC Directories UC Tools Canopy & Blackboard Catalyst OneStop Student Email Faculty / Staff Email Shuttle Tracker UCFileSpace UC Flex/ESS IT Help UC VPN Concur Success Factors Enter a search term to search UC pages or the directory. Search String University of Cincinnati About Contact Us Policies Procedures Standards Guidelines Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Two-Factor Authentication Risk Management Shredding Security Certificates Information Security Review McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator (ePO) Encryption Account & Password Help Notifications of Expiration Password Help (PSS) Setup New Accounts How to Choose a Password Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings About Policies Awareness How to Manage Your Social Media Privacy Settings National Cybersecurity Awareness Month End Of Support (EOS) Online Meetings Services Account & Password Help Compliance & Law Copyright Infringement Two-Factor Authentication Free Antivirus Report an Incident Contact Us UCIT Homepage Information Security Review Facebook Twitter National Cybersecurity Awareness Month October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month which is a whole month dedicated to creating a safe, secure, and resilient cyber environment. The IT@UC Office of Information Security (OIS) is one of many entities that participates. OIS has held Information Security Awareness Week (ISAW) annually since 2009 to help promote the month and spread awareness to the university community so that UC may work towards a more secure future. This is now a month-long event. Each and every one of us needs to do our part to make sure that our online lives are kept safe and secure. That's what Cybersecurity Awareness Month - observed in October - is all about! Additional information about National Cyber Security Awareness Month can be found by visiting the Department of Homeland Security's website. Please visit us in October 2022 Questions? Reach out to us at infosec@ucmail.uc.edu *More information on the Shred Events can be found here: https://www.uc.edu/infosec/services/shredding.html University of Cincinnati IT@UC Office of Information Security University Hall 51 Goodman Drive Cincinnati, OH 45221 Phone: 513-558-ISEC (4732) E-mail: infosec@uc.edu Notice of Non-Discrimination Alerts Clery and HEOA Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination eAccessibility Concern Privacy Statement Copyright Information © 2018 University of Cincinnati This website offers many PDF files for download, which require Adobe Reader to view.