Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Printing Services Printing Services right arrow down arrow Services Locations & Contacts Copier & Printer Rental Poster Templates Request a Quote Resources right arrow down arrow Print Order Desk User Guide Glossary of Printing Terms Home » About UC » Printing Services » Services Services Each copy center location offers convenient pickup, available 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., and maintains a three-day turnaround for most small and average-sized jobs. Delivery is available for a modest charge. Overview of Services Printing & Finishing Printing Tri-fold brochures Table tents Booklets Business cards Stationery Finishing From saddle-stitching to hole punching to perfectbinding, we work hard to make sure we deliver nothing less than high quality, professional work. Our services include binding, clear covers and backs, laminating, stapling and more. Saddle-stitching Stapling Folding Hole punching Perfectbinding (similar to a paperback book!) Fastback/Tape bind Comb bind Coil/sprial bind Cutting Padding Chipboard Laminate Creasing Perforating Scanning Shrink wrap Wide-Format Printing Our two 54” wide-format latex ink jet printers, and 54” laminator give us the ability to produce a myriad of products, including: Indoor and outdoor banners Easel signs Removable wall, floor and even street stickers Window clings Foam board, gator board and corrugated plastic signage Scientific poster session materials Small stickers Our staff can help you with printing, trimming and finishing your projectes with a quick three-day turnaround. Graphic Design Whether you need a previous file updated, or are starting from scratch, we have you covered. We’ll work with you to provide the perfect piece, while adhering to branding guidelines. Paper Selection We offer a wide array of paper stock to meet your project goals, including letter and tabloid size paper, neon and special order options. Paper sizes up to 12" x 18" including: Gloss Matte Cardstock Colored paper Colored cardstock If we don't have it on hand, we will place a special order for you, with a short lead time! Mailing Services Printing Services offers bulk/mass mailings and other communication tools to best meet your direct mail needs. If you're new to direct mail and need guidance, just let us know and we'll walk you through the process. Standard (Bulk Mail) Standard A mail (formerly 3rd Class or "Bulk”) is a term used to denote the mailing of 200 or more pieces of identical mail at reduced Third Class postage rates, to continental (and Puerto Rico) US addresses only. Basic Requirements Must be 200 or more pieces to qualify as standard mail. Pieces must all be the same and weigh the same (a single staple or extra insert can make a difference). Copier & Printer Rental Need a printer or copier for your office? Tell us what you're looking for, or let us help you identify your needs. learn more about copier and printer rental Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 printing.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top