Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Classics Home About People Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion News Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Recent Graduates Site Navigation Home About Office Hours Contact Information Faculty Bookshelf The Couch Library Stay Connected [email protected] Intranet People Faculty Affiliated Faculty Visiting Scholars & Fellows Graduate Students Staff Emeriti Faculty Office Hours Academics Undergraduate Program Study Abroad Research & Travel Funding Academic Prizes Departmental Undergraduate Group Brown Classical Journal History Submission Guidelines Graduate Program PhD Programs Classics Sanskrit Track Ancient History Reading List MA in Classics Graduate Student Symposia Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Diversity & Inclusion Diversity Statements News The Occasional Classicist Stay Connected Events Annual Lectures & Events Latin Carol Celebration Past Classics Events Alumnae/i Graduate Alumnae/i Graduate Placement The Occasional Classicist Past Volumes Recent Graduates Class of 2020 Class of 2021 Courses for Spring 2022 Primary tabs CLAS GREK LATN MGRK(active tab) SANS Introduction to Modern Greek A continuation of MGRK 0100. New students may place into it, after special arrangement with the instructor. The course continues on an integrative skills approach and aims to develop language skills, within a framework of specific topics and functions. The course objectives are to enable students to perform a range of tasks, master a minimum core vocabulary and acquire knowledge and understanding of various forms of Greek culture. MGRK 0200 S01 Primary Instructor Amanatidou Intermediate Modern Greek A continuation of MGRK 0300. New students may place into it, after special arrangement with the instructor. It aims to enhance language skills within a variety of registers and themes; enable the students to master, use and understand effectively essential linguistic structures; examine a variety of expressive forms within an authentic cultural context. MGRK 0400 S01 Primary Instructor Amanatidou Advanced Modern Greek A continuation of MGRK 0500. Students who have not taken the previous sequence may take a placement test, after consultation with the instructor. The course aims to promote range, accuracy and fluency and enable students to develop ease and spontaneity with the language. Authentic materials drawn from a range of sources inform the content of the course and include films, literature, media, testimonies, music and internet based sources. The development of transcultural competence will be an essential component of the course. MGRK 0600 S01 Primary Instructor Amanatidou The Classical World in Film Why do film directors, Hollywood moguls, and TV executives hark back to antiquity? This course introduces spectacular, epic representations of classical literature, myth, and history alongside more understated, tongue-in-cheek—occasionally hyperbolic—adaptations of that world in the present. Explores how narrative, cinematic technique, audience reception, and political context produce desired effects and elicit incisive commentary on modernity, race, ethnicity, gender. Analysis centered around a cluster of classical texts, heroic and mythic figures, and truly “historical” events. No prior knowledge of classical literature required. Films range from silent movies, Hollywood epics, European auteurism, anti-colonial Third Cinema, gladiatorial kitsch, and sci-fi franchise. MGRK 1010 S01 Primary Instructor Calotychos A Migration Crisis? Displacement, Materiality, and Experience In the past few years, we have all experienced, most of us through the media, what has been called a migration crisis. And yet, migration as a phenomenon did not appear in 2015; it is as old as humanity, and displacement and contemporary forced migration have also a long history. In this course, we will examine the historical, material and experiential dimensions of contemporary displacement and migration. Many of the examples will be from Greece but also other parts of Mediterranean and beyond, including from the Mexico-US border. Engaged Scholarship Course. MGRK 1210 S01 Primary Instructor Hamilakis In Other Words: Translating Greece This is an advanced undergraduate seminar that will offer students the opportunity to build on their linguistic, cultural and critical literacies, by translating from Greek into English. Over the course of the semester we will be thinking critically about texts, their ideological, historical and social coordinates and their embedded discourses of Greekness, community, diglossia, identity and gender, among others. In addition to translating from Greek into English, we will read and discuss essays on translation, in order to consider in an informed way the issues (untranslatability?) and types of decision making associated with the practice of translation. MGRK 1800 S01 Primary Instructor Amanatidou Special Topics in Modern Greek No description available. MGRK 1910 S01 Primary Instructor Amanatidou Schedule Code I: Independent Study/Research Academics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Courses Classics Greek Latin Modern Greek Sanskrit Department of Classics Department of Classics Brown University Box 1856 48 College Street Providence, RI 02912-1856 Phone: 401-863-1267 Fax: 401-863-7484 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top