Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary FOSTER SCHOOL OF BUSINESS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION BUSINESS ANALYTICS Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BUS AN 500 Finance and Accounting (3) Provides a broad introduction to the use of financial information to make decisions within an organization. Covers topics that are most useful to managers who are (or will be) in business analytics roles. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 500 BUS AN 501 Negotiations (2) Provides a broad array of negotiation skills that are needed for business analytics solutions to be accepted and implemented. Allows participants the opportunity to develop these skills experientially and to understand negotiations in useful analytic frameworks. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 501 BUS AN 502 Leadership and Professional Development (2) Leadership in the role of a business analytics professional. Possible approaches to accelerate leadership development, and proven behaviors of effective leaders. Utilizing contemporary leadership models as the organizing framework, reviews practical tools to assess students' leadership skills and develops a plan for students' leadership development. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 502 BUS AN 503 Competitive Strategy (2) Focus on students' ability to think as practicing executives. Provides practice in analyzing, evaluating, and modifying organizations' strategies in light of changing macro-economic conditions. Emphasis on interplay between competitive strategy and business analytics concepts. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 503 BUS AN 504 Marketing Fundamentals (3) Provides a broad introduction to marketing decisions within an organization. Marketing as an organizational philosophy and set of guiding principles for interfacing with customers, competitors, collaborators, and the environment. Covers topics most useful to managers who are (or will be) in business analytics roles. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 504 BUS AN 505 Marketing Strategy and Channel Management (2) Covers analysis and decision-making in management of exchange processes with customers. Analysis of market forces; choice of marketing strategy, objectives, and marketing mix variables. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 505 BUS AN 506 Operations and Supply Chain Management (3) Provides a broad introduction to Operations Management (OM), the design and management of the processes that transform inputs into finished goods or services. The objective of this course is to provide students with a solid foundation in the models and principles that are necessary to generate improvement ideas. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 506 BUS AN 507 Spreadsheet Modeling for Business Enterprise (2) Implementing spreadsheets as the initial step in modeling data. Typical spreadsheet modeling problems. Equips students with tools necessary to start business analytics projects. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 507 BUS AN 510 Probability and Statistics (3) Uses of statistical tools to present, analyze, and interpret data. Emphasis on applications of statistical tools and their uses for organizational decision-making. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 510 BUS AN 511 Programming Essentials (2) Software and programming skills. Using software such as R, Python, and others to manage and prepare data and implement models to analyze data. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 511 BUS AN 512 Data Management and Visualization (2) SQL and the basic elements of data management and visualization. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 512 BUS AN 513 Customer Analytics (3) Focuses on the firm's interaction with its customers and how data can be used to improve these interactions. Targeting and personalization are the core concepts of modern customer-centric marketing. Provides students with the tools and methods that will allow leveraging data to help shape customer relationship. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 513 BUS AN 514 Analytics for Firm Decisions (3) How firms can use data analytics to optimize marketing mix decisions or the 4 Ps - Product Design, Pricing, Promotion and Advertising, and Placement. Developing statistical models for descriptive, causal, and predictive models for large-scale data. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 514 BUS AN 515 Digital Marketing (3) Quantitative methods. Introduces some core concepts of digital marketing, and use of a quantitative approach to develop optimal marketing strategies. Provides a solid analytical foundation to evaluate digital opportunities, marketing strategies, and online business models. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 515 BUS AN 516 Operations Research Data Analytics (3) Business analytics - problem and techniques. Techniques applicable to functional areas of business, such as operations, marketing, accounting, finance, etc. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 516 BUS AN 517 Machine Learning Methods and AI (3) Introduces a theoretical and practical understanding of core artificial intelligence and machine learning concepts and techniques; and provide hands-on experience in applying these techniques to practical real-world business problems. Topics include inductive learning, knowledge representation, reinforcement learning, recommendation systems, artificial neural networks, and natural language processing. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 517 BUS AN 550 Business Analytics Leaders Series (1-3, max. 3) Provides students the opportunity to complement their in-class learning experience with seminars given by business analytics leaders. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWS. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 550 BUS AN 579 Special Topics in Business Analytics (1-3, max. 6) Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 579 BUS AN 599 Business Analytics Practicum (2/3) Provides the program capstone experience. Students complement their in-class learning experience by working on a project. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 599 BUS AN 600 Independent Study or Research (2/3, max. 6) Study or research under the supervision of individual faculty members. Prerequisite: permission of the MSBA program office and faculty advisor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: BUS AN 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022