Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>RCT Framework for Training and Supervision RCT Framework for Training and Supervision We are incredibly excited to share the ways we have adopted Relational Cultural Theory (RCT) into our training and supervision program. And it fits so well with our two training questions, “Who are you as a therapist?” and “How are you therapeutic?” You will see why we are so passionate about this; RCT highlights our basic human needs for both connection and safety – and it doesn’t matter whether you are a trainer or a trainee. We believe that with an intentional focus on the process and repairing of ruptures in a training program, each person can move in and out of connection with the other in a relational dance that produces personal and professional change for everyone. At this internship, we seek to provide a platform for exploration and clinical identity development for both trainees and trainers. We exist in the intersections of culture, identity, and experience. The impact of our differences is explored explicitly and intentionally. Here we talk about power. Trainers and trainees are challenged to own, discuss, and learn to effectively share their power in the relationship. This process is a powerful catalyst for mutual empowerment and collective growth. This work is the essential foundation, as well as the ongoing and continually changing process of supervision. As modeling occurs experientially, the person of the therapist is impacted and changed. In attending to and naming the process, trainers grow as supervisors and trainees grow as future psychologists. The work of this supervision in mirrored in clinical practice and in the ability of trainees to become trainers themselves and contribute back to the profession. It is an incredibly rewarding process that we shape here. Our psychologist training program strives to model and live out this vision of relational training. The way it unfolds teaches us the way we are going to be in therapy. It becomes a way of being in relationship. Attention to the relational dance brings attention to a way of connecting. It becomes a way of growing. It becomes a way of life. This is a brave and intentional thing we are talking about. It’s not just a feel-good experience we are after but rather it is a growth experience for everyone involved. It is what we start with, it is how we lay the groundwork, it is always unfolding, and it is how we experience the journey! Former Interns: In Their Own Words My supervisor highlighted the parts of me, I feel could change, but they are validated as something that makes me a “beautiful person”. It has been meaningful me to hear this. It was meaningful to be reassured about strengths while being invited to grow. I appreciated the ability to challenge me with kindness. To give both positive and continued feedback in a manner that is caring, and yet pushed me to grow. To be a real person with me. Supervision has been a place where I can let my guard down - which is immensely cathartic and challenging at the same time. My supervisor created a safe space to explore and grow, modeling humility and a continual openness to growth and learning. My supervisor recognizes the impact of modeling, as well as dynamics of power and culture. This created a frame of empowerment – where constructive growth and feedback is able to be received and implemented due to my safety. My supervisor exemplifies and lives out the importance of self-awareness and how the person of the therapist impacts relational dynamics. BUCC is living proof that inclusion, discussion, and practice create a nurturing environment in work place. I feel validated and respected. Buckle up. It’s going to be a wild ride and you will not want to leave. APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health