Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home About Our Team Staff Directory Staff Directory Get to Know Columbia Housing Here to support the undergraduate residential community OUR TEAM Columbia Housing offers students a unique opportunity to make the undergraduate residences home and build a close sense of community within the reach of all that New York City has to offer. Housing is provided for approximately 5,600 undergraduate students across 19 undergraduate residence halls and 18 brownstones. Our organization houses traditional residential students as well as special living communities, located on and around our Morningside campus. Learn more. Contact Us Hartley Hospitality Desk Available for general questions & assistance 24x7 during the academic year at 212-854-2779. The Hospitality Desk does not handle service and repair requests. Submit a service request instead. Need a repair? Open a Service Request if you need help with any issue related to your room or building, including leaks, electrical issues, etc. Emergencies If there is an emergency or you need help, call Public Safety at 212-854-5555. Undergraduate Housing Email the Housing team if you are a prospective or current student and cannot find what you need here on our website. Conference Housing For more information about housing accommodations for conferences, email the Conference Housing team. Staff Directory Natalie Gomez As an Associate Manager, Natalie helps manage the Hartley Hospitality Desk and works closely with the various on campus departments to ensure residents have safe and enjoyable experience. She assists residents with any concerns and responds to their requests in a timely and efficient manner. Natalie began working at Columbia in November 2020. She holds a B.A. in Linguistics with a concentration in Speech Science and a Minor in Italian from Boston University. She has worked in hospitality for five years— she previously worked at the Westin Boston Waterfront in Boston, MA and as a Guest Relations and VIP Agent at the JW Marriott Essex House NY. Natalie speaks three languages and enjoys meeting people from different cultures. Mia DeLuis Zayas Mia DeLuis Zayas is Associate Manager, Housing Services, helping to manage housing assignments for undergraduate students during the academic year and outside guests during the summer and conference season. In this role, Mia works closely with partners across the University, including Residential Life, University Life, Public Safety and Facilities to help ensure our residents have a safe and comfortable place to call home while at Columbia. Mia officially joined Columbia Housing in 2021, but has been with our team since 2019 when she joined as a student worker. Mia graduated with a B.A. from Columbia University in 2020, double-majoring in Ethnicity and Race Studies (with specialization in Latinx Studies) and Educational Studies. As a student, she was heavily involved in the Native American Council, Student Organization of Latinxs, and Sigma Lambda Gamma National Sorority, Inc. Mia was born and raised in Camden, NJ by her parents, both of Puerto Rican descent. Outside of work, she loves to explore coffee shops, exercise, and make plans for her next travel destination. Menlee Mansue As the Director of Housing Operations and Systems, Menlee oversees the staff that manage Housing systems and reporting, serves as the main liaison to Facilities Operations, and supports our third party vendor relationships. Menlee began working with Columbia in 2013 as a member of the Lerner Operations Team. Menlee received a B.A. from Columbia University in Political Science. He is currently serving in his first year as the 2019-2020 Vice President of the Columbia Black Alumni Council, and volunteers as a mentor for a Columbia founded non-profit organization. He is an active alum and remains committed to improving the Columbia experience wherever possible. Lorena Prosco As the Senior Director of Housing Services and Student Center Operations, Lorena works closely with partners across the University including Student Life, Residential Life, Campus Operations, Public Safety, Dining, Environmental Stewardship, and others. Her responsibilities to include academic year, summer, and conference housing assignments and related activities for our 6,000 undergraduate residential students and many guests. She began her career at Columbia University in 2012 as part of the Lerner Operations Team. Lorena holds a Bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering from The University of Connecticut and a Master's Degree in Sustainability Management from the Columbia University School of Professional Services. Her experience at Columbia, both as an officer of the University and a student/alum inspires her to continuously strive to impact positive change within the campus community. Lamar Gardner Lamar joined Columbia University in June 2021 as Assistant Manager, Guest Services. In this role, he oversees the Hospitality Desk and acts as a liaison between students and our campus partners. Lamar holds an MBA from Monroe College-New Rochelle and is is a certified CH-47 helicopter mechanic for the New York Army National Guard. His roles within the National Guard requires an intense focus on safety, accountability, and readiness as well as a thorough understanding of how to handle and protect sensitive information--skills and knowledge that Lamar in turn brings to Columbia to benefit our Hospitality Desk staff. Justin Cottrell Justin Cottrell joined Columbia Housing in January, 2022 as Manager, Housing Operations. In this role, Justin works with all functional teams within Columbia Housing to help facilitate high-value vendor relationships, maximize student satisfaction, improve the efficiency and accuracy of data analysis, and manage key cross-functional projects. Before joining Columbia, Justin helped build two successful companies and acted as a consultant to help other firms manage personnel and other operations during periods of rapid growth. He also assisted several venture capital firms in gathering market research and performing company analysis. Justin hopes to leverage this experience and "start-up" mentality to Columbia Housing, developing creative solutions to improve our operations and services. Justin received a BA in History from the University of New Orleans. In his personal time, he is an avid reader, as well as a fan of movies, television, and cycling. Jennifer Manghisi As Director of Guest Services, Jennifer oversees the Hartley Hospitality Desk to support the delivery of housing services to students. Jennifer oversees the training, staffing, policies, and management of the Hartley Hospitality Desk and team, and is responsible for our students’ day-to-day experience in the residence halls. She works closely with Student Life, Residential Life, Campus Operations, Public Safety, Dining, Environmental Stewardship, and other related University partners. Jennifer began working at Columbia University as a member of the Lerner Operations team in March 2015. She holds a BS in Business Management from Bentley University and a MS degree from Columbia University School of Professional Studies, with a concentration in Negotiation and Conflict Resolution. Honey Sue Fishman Honey Sue provides vision, organization, and leadership to the operation of Columbia’s undergraduate residence halls and Alfred Lerner Hall, the student center. This broad scope of work encompasses short and long-term capital planning of the physical assets, custodial and maintenance, and guest services for student residents, visitors, and administrators. With her team, Honey Sue aims to provide a consistent, easy to navigate, and rewarding campus experience. In addition to these responsibilities, Honey Sue manages Columbia’s Trademark and Licensing program and several on-site services provided by contracted vendors. Honey Sue has served in various leadership roles during her tenure at Columbia. Most recently, she served as executive director of Business Services. She holds a bachelor’s degree from Washington University in St. Louis. Glen Moore Glen started at Columbia University as an Associate Manager, Guest Services in August 2020. He is responsible for overseeing the day-to-day operations of the Hartley Hospitality Desk, related to critical and central services in response to student residents as well as other parts of Columbia Housing. Glen holds a B.S. in Hospitality Management from New York City College of Technology. He previously worked at Union Square Events as the Operations Manager at The Shed where he liaised between USE’s onsite Food and Beverage operations. This included oversight of the retail bar operations, catering, Cedric’s at The Shed restaurant, facilities, IT, security, and local union teams. Frances Gonzalez Frances oversees Housing assignments, including extensions, early arrivals and interim assignments. She also coordinates SIC and FSL Housing for the academic year. Frances joined Columbia Housing in 2006. She previously worked at Citibank, Scotiabank, and the non-profit organization Children International. Frances studied at the Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra in the Dominican Republic and is currently enrolled in the Columbia University School of General Studies. Erik Sandahl Erik oversees the Housing database system, which manages assignments, billing and building access, maintaining its integrity, security, and accuracy, and implementing updates and functionality as needed to better serve our student residents. He also helps create and maintain system policies, procedures, and staff training. Erik earned his Bachelor of Science in Management Information Systems and Political Science from Iowa State University. He joined Housing full time in Fall 2017, and as an ACUHO-I intern in May 2015 starting as a Conference Housing Assistant. Erik returned the following two summers and was promoted to Conference Operations/Special Projects. He also previously worked in the Iowa Senate in the off-conference season. David Grimes As the Associate Director, Guest Services, David works with the Director to provide oversight of the Hartley Hospitality Desk and supervises the Associate and Assistant Managers of the desk to ensure that students are provided with exceptional customer service in addressing any questions or concerns that they may have during their time living in the residence halls. In his work, David works closely with Student Life, Residential Life, Campus Operations, Public Safety, Dining, and other University partners. David began working at Columbia University in December 2021. He holds a BA in English and a MS in Educational Administration and Policy Studies with a concentration in Higher Education both from the University at Albany, SUNY. Prior to working at Columbia, David has previously worked for The New School, Northeastern University, Syracuse University, Johns Hopkins University – Center for Talented Youth, and St. John Fisher College. In his spare time, David enjoys cooking, traveling, seeing Broadway and Off-Broadway shows, playing kickball and spending time with friends and family in the city. Charlie Tatis Charlie Tatis is Assistant Director of Housing Services, overseeing the undergraduate housing assignments process throughout the academic year with the goal of ensuring that students are assigned to rooms or suites that meet their needs and positively impact their Columbia experience. During the summer months, Charlie also manages our Summer and Conference Housing programs, providing space in the residence halls for guests attending a variety of conferences and events on campus, including accommodations for guests of graduating seniors during University Commencement and annual reunions hosted by the Columbia Alumni Association. In addition to all this, he is pursuing a Bachelor of Science Degree in Sports and Recreation from Lehman College. Charlie began working at Columbia University in 2017 as Assistant Manager of Operations at Alfred J. Lerner Hall, Columbia’s official student center, and joined the Columbia Housing team in 2021. Supporting his success in both roles have been the close relationships he has fostered with partners across the University including, Student Life, Residential Life, Campus Operations, Public Safety, Dining and Environmental Stewardship. Charlie was born and raised in the Bronx to Dominican parents and takes pride in his family’s culture and traditions. In his free time he loves watching basketball and baseball, and is an avid and lifelong fan of both the Yankees and the Lakers. Afshan Nawaz Afshan acts as the on-site daytime department liaison with Facilities, Residential Life, and Public Safety and manages the Housing Hospitality Desk. She ensures that the concerns of residents are addressed and resolved in a timely manner. Afshan joined the Columbia Housing team in May 2013 and is currently pursuing a degree in teaching. Sort Type Group Function Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close