Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Counseling Counseling Psychology Educational Psychology & Research Faculty and Staff Research Clinical Services Grants & Contracts Alumni & Friends Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Apply Now! Click this link to apply for one of our programs. Apply Now! Click this link to apply for one of our programs. Apply Now! Apply for one of our programs. Apply Now! Apply for one of our programs. PreviousNext Take Action Apply Now! Student Organizations in CEPR Department News Contact Us Nationally Ranked # 20 U.S. News and World Report Rehabilitation Counseling-Graduate View All Rankings Home Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology & Research Welcome to the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research (CEPR)! We hope you will find everything you need on this website, but if not, we are just a phone call away. Of course, we always welcome visitors to the department as well. Questions? Have questions about CEPR programs, degrees or admission? We're here to help. Give us a call at 901.678.2841 or email cepr@memphis.edu. Email Us> About Us Our objective is to prepare advanced professionals to be both sophisticated practitioners and researchers. The graduate degrees within the department will qualify students as counselors, psychologists, program evaluators, university and college professors, and researchers in educational and counseling environments. We also provide our students with the skills necessary to fill a variety of roles in other settings in which knowledge of human development, learning and cognition, research and evaluation methods are essential. CEPR is currently home to approximately 95 doctoral students, and more than 155 master's students. The department offers the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Counselor Education and Supervision, Counseling Psychology, and Educational Psychology and Research, Master of Science degrees in Addiction Counseling, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling, School Counseling, Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling, and Educational Psychology and Research. We also offer graduate certificates in College and Career Counseling, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Disability Studies, Disability Support Services, School Counseling, Qualitative Research in Education, and Quantitative Methods, as well as an undergraduate minor in Educational Psychology and Research. Our doctoral program in Counselor Education and Supervision and our MS degrees in Clinical Mental Health, Clinical Rehabilitation, School, and Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP); our doctoral program in Counseling Psychology is accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA). Our MS programs in Addiction Counseling and Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling are brand new and have not yet undergone the CACREP accreditation process. In addition to our academic programs, CEPR houses a clinical research center: The University of Memphis Institute on Disability (UMID). UMID also houses TigerLIFE (Tigers Learning Independence Fostering Education and Employment), the largest and most ethnically diverse program for intellectually/developmentally disabled adults in the state of Tennessee. The clinical programs in CEPR participate in the university-wide Interprofessional Community Health Clinic (ICHC), a clinical training and research center that provides a variety of health and wellness services to the UofM, Memphis, and neighboring communities. Learn more about our programs, faculty and staff, and services by following the various links on this page. Degree Programs The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research is a multidisciplinary unit with programs in three divisions: Counseling, Counseling Psychology, and Educational Psychology and Research. We offer 1 undergraduate minor, 7 graduate certificates, 7 master's, and 3 doctoral degrees. Counseling Graduate Certificate Programs College and Career Counseling (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Studies (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) Disability Support Services (Post-Baccalaureate Certificate) School Counseling (Post-Master's Certificate) Master's Programs Addiction Counseling (MS) Clinical Mental Health Counseling (MS) Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling (MS) Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling (MS) Note: This is a new program and will admit its first class for the Spring Semester 2022. School Counseling (MS) Vocational Rehabilitation Counseling Doctoral Program Counselor Education and Supervision (PhD) Counseling Psychology Counseling Psychology (PhD) Educational Psychology and Research Undergraduate Minor Educational Psychology and Research Graduate Certificate Programs Qualitative Research in Education (Graduate Certificate) Quantitative Methods (Graduate Certificate) Master's Programs Educational Psychology and Research Online M.S. Degree Option Doctoral Program Educational Psychology and Research (PhD) Points of Pride The Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Research is dedicated to making an impact. We are proud to share some of the achievements of our team. Academic Program Rankings Our programs are not only cutting edge and affordable, they are also nationally ranked! #4 - Most Affordable Online Master's in Educational Psychology, CollegeChoice.net #5 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, Online-Psychology-Degrees.org #5 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, TopEducationDegrees.org #8 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, CollegeChoice.net #8 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, Intelligent.com #9 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, BestCollege.com #9 - Best Online Master's in Educational Psychology, OnlineMasters.com #9 - Most Affordable Online Master's in Educational Psychology, BestMastersDegrees.com #10 - Best Online Master's in Educational Psychology, BestCollegeReviews.org #10 - Most Affordable Online Master's in Educational Psychology, BestCollegesOnline.org #11 - Online Master's in Educational Psychology, TopCounselingSchools.org #14 - Best Online Master's in Educational Psychology, BestMastersinPsychology.com #20 - Rehabilitation Counseling Program, U.S. News and World Report Professional Engagement Our faculty are nationally known for the service to the profession and the community. Below are some of the key roles our faculty have played on the national scene. Rosie Phillips-Davis, Past-President of the American Psychological Association Chrisann Schiro Geist, Board of Member and Immediate Past President of the National Rehabilitation Counseling Association Steven L. West, Board Member of the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants Health Foundation Steven L. West, Past-President of the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification Board of Directors Stephen Zanskas, Past-President of the American Rehabilitation Counseling Association Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/11/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.