Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events New review highlights the complex nature of cannabis and alcohol co-use April 21, 2022 While the legalization of cannabis continues to grow, the use of alcohol remains a leading cause of significant health-related harm in the United States, leading researchers to question how the two substances interact. Alcohol and cannabis are the two most commonly used substances in the U.S., yet research on how the effects of concurrent use impact alcohol-related harms is mixed. Led by Rachel Gunn, assistant professor of behavioral and social sciences, researchers in the School of Public Health conducted a review of existing research to see whether cannabis acts as a substitute for alcohol, replacing the effects of drinking and decreasing alcoholic intake, or if cannabis acts as a complement to alcohol, enhancing the effects of drinking and increasing alcoholic intake. Using a detailed search method, the team reviewed over 90 research studies on the co-use of alcohol and cannabis for their study, Patterns of Cannabis and Alcohol Co-Use: Substitution Versus Complementary Effects, published recently in the journal Alcohol Research. “It is essential to understand the impact of cannabis use on alcohol-related outcomes,” Gunn said. “There is conflicting evidence as to whether cannabis acts as a substitute or complement to alcohol use. Therefore, we conducted a thorough review to better understand mechanisms that may explain these conflicting findings." Interestingly, the Brown University team found compelling evidence for cannabis acting as both a substitute and a complement to alcohol. The team suggests that this distinction exists because of the different populations examined in each reviewed study. The impact of cannabis use on alcohol-related health outcomes depends on contexts of co-use, which substance is used first, the specific components that make up cannabis, user demographics, and more. For example, preliminary work suggests that individual differences, such as impulsive personality, may impact drinking rates on co-use days with less impulsive individuals being more likely to substitute cannabis for alcohol. Sex, age, race, ethnicity, and sociocontextual environment also likely play a role in co-use of alcohol and cannabis. The new review highlights the complex nature of cannabis and alcohol co-use and suggests that internal (e.g., pharmacological) and external (e.g., context) factors interact to yield complementary and substitution effects of alcohol and cannabis that likely shift over time, throughout the day, and potentially in the moment. While the current literature sheds additional light on the competing theories of substitution versus complementarity, results from this review bring attention to the need for further research on this topic, while also informing future studies and aiding in prevention efforts for populations most vulnerable to the negative health consequences of co-using alcohol and cannabis. by Destry Jensen MPH'22 Recent news: May 23, 2022 Laura Keohane Ph.D. ’16 Named 2022 Alumni Impact Awardee May 12, 2022 At the Brown School of Public Health: Dynamic Change to Expand Impact May 4, 2022 Congratulations to the Winners of the 2022 Dean’s Staff Awards April 25, 2022 Postpartum insurance loss decreased during COVID-19 pandemic, study finds April 14, 2022 2022 Betty Marcus Women’s Health Endowment Awards April 13, 2022 For young adults, mindfulness habits for life and the promise of better mental, physical health April 12, 2022 Celebrating the 2022 Dean's Awards for Faculty Excellence April 7, 2022 Communicating for impact: Public health students get comfortable talking about why their work matters School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top