Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate ChecklistHonors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student ChecklistGraduate School RequirementsHooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Commencement Conduct Guidelines Commencement Conduct Guidelines Commencement is a time to celebrate and enjoy your achievement. However, it is also ceremonial. You are asked to honor the spirit of this important occasion by conducting yourself in a manner that is respectful of your guests, the guests of others, of your fellow graduates, and of you. By participating in The University of Memphis Commencement ceremony you agree to observe the following guidelines: The use of Air Horns, Bull Horns, Cow bells and any disruptive Nosie makers is strictly prohibited. We want to specifically point out the following: Guests and Graduates should NOT bring in Air Horns, Bull Horns, Cow bells or any other disruptive Noise Makers. These will be confiscated and not returned. Guests and or graduates in violation by using the above or any other disruptions will be asked to leave immediately and escorted out by Law Enforcement. It is your responsibility to speak to your guests about the following and to comply as it relates to them. This is Commencement and it is a time of celebration. We want you to receive praise from your guests, but we want all of our students to receive praise and be able to hear their names as they go across the stage. This is your Commencement, but it is also the Commencement of your peers. Excessive Yelling, Prolonged Screaming is unnecessary, unfair, and disruptive to your peers. You want your name to be held but your family and friends, and so do your peers. Please speak to your guests in detail about NOT using Air Horns, Bull Horns, Cow bells or any other disruptive Noise Makers and excessive and prolonged screaming, yelling, and cheering. Be respectful of other graduates and the audience by staying in your seat before and after you receive your diploma and until those on the Commencement platform exit during the recessional. Inappropriate behavior for this occasion includes but is not limited to taking of selfies while on the Commencement platform, pranks, stepping or dancing of any kind, and/or vocal or visual disruptions. Use of any noise maker, including whistles and air horns is strictly prohibited. Cell phones are permitted, but out of courtesy for other participants, students should silence their phone, not use them during the formal speaking portions of the ceremony and should not use them while receiving their diploma on stage. The use and/or possession of alcohol is strictly prohibited. For your safety and the safety of others, please do not toss any objects in the air during the ceremony. All provisions of the University of Memphis Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities apply to Commencement ceremonies. The University expects to conduct a meaningful, dignified ceremony. Disorderly and/or disruptive conduct, including, but not limited to the examples provided above, may be grounds for immediate ejection, and may result in your diploma and/or transcript being retained by the University. Attendees must stay for the duration. Please speak to guests about cheering too loudly. Ask guests to be respectful of other graduates’ names after your name is called. All families/friends want to hear their graduate’s name called. Clapping and respectful cheering is allowed. However, ask guests to refrain from yelling, screaming and lengthy cheering. Excessive yelling, screaming is disrespectful to your fellow graduates. Please be considerate of your fellow graduates. Just as your family wants to hear your name, other families want to hear their graduates name as well. No bullhorns, noise makers or the like. We cannot and do not hold personal items. Please bring the items you need only. No guests allowed on the Event floor at any time. In the wake of COVID-19, any guidelines set by the facility or Health Officials must be followed by all graduating participants and that of their guests. If you have any questions about filling this online form please contact the Commencement Office by emailing us at commencement@memphis.edu or by phone at 901.678.5547. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.