Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Application Information Accommodations for Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances Graduate School Skip to Navigation Accommodations for Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances Brown recognizes that applicants may be affected by severe circumstances that might make it difficult to complete and submit an application by the specified deadline. To support students facing extreme conditions, we offer some flexibility to prospective PhD and master's students who may be impacted by: natural disasters (e.g. wildfires, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods) political unrest or armed conflict sweeping network or power outages widespread health/human safety issues If you are affected by any of these circumstances, we hope that you and those you care about are safe and well. For applicants that may be impacted by such situations, we offer the following information that may be helpful: I am unable to submit my application by my program deadline. What should I do? If you need an extension, please contact the Graduate School at [email protected]. The Graduate School will notify the program to which you are applying to review your request. I am not able to take a required standardized test before the application deadline. What should I do? Your official test scores can be added to your application for review as soon as we receive them, even after the deadline. If there is a substantial delay and you will not be able to take a required test for several months after the admissions deadline, please contact the Director of Graduate Studies of the program to which you are applying. They can offer more information and tell you if it is realistic to submit a competitive application without required scores. I can't submit my official test results before the application deadline. What should I do? Please enter your scores directly in the “Test Scores” section of the application. Your self-reported scores will be used to evaluate your application pending receipt of your official scores. My recommenders do not have access to computers and may not be able to upload their letters before the application deadline. Is that ok? Yes. Recommenders may submit letters after the program deadline. The Graduate School will add their letters to your application for review as soon as we receive them. Some programs will begin reviewing applications right away, so it is best for recommenders to submit letters as soon as they are able. I am unable to get official transcripts from previous institutions I have attended. What should I do? Please upload your unofficial transcripts with your name, institution, courses taken, grades received, and any academic comments. You can submit your application without uploading an official transcript. Can you waive or defer my application fee? If you need an application fee waiver, please review the process and eligibility requirements. Please note that deadline restrictions apply. Unfortunately, we are not able to defer payment of the application fee, and we do not accept late fee waiver requests. Please contact us at [email protected] with any questions. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information Application Components & Process GRE Information International Applicants Admissions Review Considering COVID-19 Disruptions Applicants Facing Extenuating Circumstances For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants