Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Menu Search Welcome to the Whitacre College of Engineering The Edward E. Whitacre, Jr. College of Engineering is a globally elite college of engineering composed of a community of scholars; faculty, students and staff all working together to educate the best engineering talent in the world. All our graduates are internationally aware, have solid engineering fundamentals, an understanding of how their profession affects human society and are prepared to be technological leaders, regionally, nationally and internationally. Red Raider Engineers are simply the best of the best. The college is an internationally recognized research institution ranked among the best in the country. Here, award-winning faculty, intimate classes, the International Experience Initiative, and hands-on internships combine with a true community of scholars to empower students with the knowledge and experience needed to hit the ground running. Engineering a Global Future Blending math, science, critical and creative thinking, our students and alumni are designing innovative solutions that are transforming the world. From self-repairing transportation infrastructure, smart cities, alternative energy methods, improving unconventional oil and gas recovery, the use and recovery of clean water and its distribution, engineering bio inspired processes, materials and structures, and developing medical solutions; Red Raiders are at the forefront of regional, national and global solutions. Consistent with our belief "from here, it's possible," Red Raiders are leaving their mark on the world. Join us in Engineering a Global Future: Donate Online International Experience Requirement As a future engineer, you will be part of an ever-increasing international profession. To prepare you as a global citizen, the Whitacre College of Engineering requires all undergraduate students to have an international experience of 6 weeks or longer. There are four methods to complete the international experience requirement: study abroad, intern abroad, research abroad, or service-learning abroad. The International Engineering Program (IEP) team looks forward to assisting you in your experience abroad. STEM Outreach During COVID-19 Whitacre College of Engineering STEM Outreach and Engagement was excited to take part in the Wallace Theater STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, and Mathematics) Academy in Levelland, Texas. The WCOE provided hands-on engineering focused activities for elementary and middle school students. Committed to ensuring the health and safety of all participants, the WCOE and Dean Al Sacco donated TTU masks for everyone. Distinguished Engineers The Distinguished Engineer Award was established during the 1966–1967 academic year to recognize the most outstanding former students of the Whitacre College of Engineering. Since that time, 230 former students of the Whitacre College of Engineering have received this honor. Recipients of the award must be distinguished in their profession, an inspiration to their peers, and have demonstrated a continuing interest in areas outside the field of engineering. Please join us in congratulating our 2020 Distinguished Engineers and Young Distinguished Engineers. Whitacre College of Engineering faculty helping the world! College News Texas Tech University - Costa Rica Graduates Inaugural Class( May 24th ) The graduating class from the new campus had six graduates, all representing the College of Human Sciences. Texas Tech, College of Engineering Grant Tuition for Make-A-Wish Student( May 19th ) (VIDEO) Matthew’s dream of attending college with his tuition paid will be fulfilled. Students to Participate in Spring 2022 Commencement( May 13th ) Texas Tech will hold its spring commencement ceremonies May 13-14 at United Supermarkets Arena. Texas Tech Produces Record Number of Fulbright Students( May 12th ) Six students will spend one year abroad promoting intercultural understanding and knowledge exchange. National Wind Institute Celebrates Five Decades of Research, Education, Innovation( May 12th ) Approximately 175 people are expected to attend the anniversary event. Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Like Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on FacebookLike Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on Facebook Follow Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on twitterFollow Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on twitter Check in with Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on FourSquareCheck in with Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on FourSquare Subscribe to Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on YouTubeSubscribe to Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on YouTube Follow Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on FlickrFollow Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on Flickr Connect with Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on LinkedInConnect with Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering on LinkedIn Address 100 Engineering Center Box 43103 Lubbock, Texas 79409-3103 Phone 806.742.3451 Email webmaster.coe@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 16, 2022 1:53 PM Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering About Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Back About WCOE Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering About WCOE Back History of the College College Fact Sheet Edward E. Whitacre Jr. Biography Mission and Vision State of The College 2020 Academic Programs Dean's Biography Dean's Council Endowed Chairs, Professorships, and Fellows Faculty, Staff and Student Awards ABET Accreditation Open Positions College Resources Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering College Resources Back Events Publications Safety Maps Operating Policies Virtual Backgrounds COVID-19 Resources STEM Outreach Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering STEM Outreach Back Outreach Overview Outreach Raiders Tech Robotics Association Robotics Programs STEAM Camps, Clubs and Professional Development Community Events College Directory Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering College Directory Back Dean's Office Directory College Faculty Directory College Staff Directory Faculty and Staff Resources Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Back Engineering IT Support Website Maintenance Publication Support Departments & Programs Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Back Departments Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Departments Back Chemical Engineering Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering Computer Science Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial, Manufacturing and Systems Engineering Mechanical Engineering Bob L. Herd Department of Petroleum Engineering Undergraduate Programs Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Undergraduate Programs Back Prospective Students Degrees Undergraduate Program Listing (B.S./Minors/Dual) International Engineering Program Engineering Opportunities Center (EOC) Engineering Forms Engineering Ambassadors Learning Communities Apply Now! Graduate Programs Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Graduate Programs Back Prospective Students Graduate Programs Brochure Degrees Graduate Program Listing (M.S./Ph.D./Dual/Certificates) Distance Learning Scholarships Apply Now! Contacts Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Contacts Back Academic & Advising Contacts College Directory Department Chairs Students Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Students Back Prospective Students Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Students Prospective Students Back Engineering Degrees Undergraduate Information Graduate Information Orientation Guide Summer Camps Apply Now! Current Students Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Students Current Students Back Engineering Opportunities Center (EOC) International Engineering Program Student Organizations Career Services Student Support Events CPCEED Programs ConocoPhillips Academic Success Bridge Program Graduate Students and Programs Engineering IT Services Buying the Right Computer Contacts Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Students Contacts Back Academic & Advising Contacts EOC Staff Engineering IT Support College Directory Research Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Back Research Overview Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Research Overview Back Research Focus Research Opportunities Featured News Engineers in Medicine Active Learning and Undergraduate Engagement Research Centers and Institutes Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Research Centers and Institutes Back Center for Nanophotonics Materials Characterization Center Murdough Center for Engineering Professionalism (National Institute for Engineering Ethics) Nano Tech Center (NTC) Center for Pulsed Power and Power Electronics (P3E) Center for Multidisiplinary Research in Transportation (TechMRT) Water Resources Center (WRC) Contacts Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Contacts Back Associate Dean for Research College Directory Alumni & Giving Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Back Alumni Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Alumni Back Alumni Center College Events Alumni Events Update Contact Information Distinguished Engineers Young Guns Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Young Guns Back Overview Leadership Young Distinguished Engineer Award Young Guns Give Back Giving Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Giving Back Your Impact Giving Opportunities Funding Priorities Engineering Key Society Golf Tournament Donate Now Job Postings for Alumni (Alumni JobGrid) Contacts Edward E. Whitacre Jr. College of Engineering Contacts Back Development Staff College Directory Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index