Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Events Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Climate Change and Health Boot Camp Building Skills and Knowledge for Effective Engagement 9:30 am 6:30 pm Thursday 16 June 2022 RSVP Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook RSVP Add to Calendar: Google Calendar Outlook Online Featuring: Cecilia Sorensen, MD. Caleb Jackson Dresser, MD. Cecilia Sorensen, Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences. Caleb Jackson Dresser, Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Event Kind: Training Organizer: Department of Environmental Health Sciences SHARP Invitation Limited to: Open to the Public Website: Learn More Learn More Join us for the next live-stream Climate Change and Health Boot Camp on June 16-17, 2022. The Climate Change and Health Boot Camp is a two-day intensive course that will prepare clinicians, scientists, and other members of the research, health, and public health communities for informed, effective engagement with climate change issues in their professional lives. Professionals at all career stages are welcome to attend, and we particularly encourage trainees and early-stage investigators to participate. Register or view more information and prerequisites: https://www.publichealth.columbia.edu/research/precision-prevention/clim... Subscribe for updates: https://columbia.us15.list-manage.com/subscribe?u=60d3eb536eacd93ffd4c56... Capacity is limited. Paid registration is required to attend. Contact: Climate Change and Health Boot Camp ColumbiaSHARP [dot] Climate [at] gmail [dot] com Return To Calendar Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Find out about upcoming events Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers