Indoor face covering requirements reinstated through June 13. More COVID-19 information. × Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply UC Riverside University of California, Riverside University of California, Riverside Search About About Overview Rankings and Facts Impacts History Visitors International Leadership Find Information for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges and Schools UCR Extension Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Transfer Admissions Cost Veteran Admissions Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Research Research Overview Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Centers and Facilities Library Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Campus Life Campus Life Overview Events Campus Map Arts and Culture Athletics and Recreation Health and Safety Botanic Gardens Housing Dining About Riverside Find Information For... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty Staff Parents Alumni Quicklinks Visit Events Make a Gift Campus Map Jobs Library Parking and Transportation Apply Faculty Breadcrumb Faculty A Shared Commitment to Collaborative Inquiry Faculty at UC Riverside thrive within America’s most prestigious public university system — and on one of the most dynamic campuses in the nation. UCR was America’s fastest rising university, according to the U.S. News 2019 rankings, and placed among the top 1 percent of universities worldwide, according to the 2018-19 Center for World University Rankings. Our faculty members educate and elevate our students, our future leaders, while simultaneously creating visionary solutions and conducting path-breaking research of their own to address the greatest challenges facing our community and world. We make sure they have the resources, support, and stimulation they need to persevere. Among our distinguished faculty are two Nobel Prize winners, and 13 members of the National Academies of Science and Medicine. In fact, we are one of fewer than 20 public U.S. universities to boast multiple Nobel Prize winners on our faculty. Every day, our diverse faculty bring an entrepreneurial spirit to education, showcasing what a public university is capable of in the 21st century. Through their interdisciplinary mindsets and shared commitment to collaborative inquiry, they are effecting the kind of transformative change that proves no barriers are too great at UCR. DEPARTMENTAL WEBSITES WORKING AT UC Academic Senate The voice of UCR faculty and a major conduit for faculty initiatives, the Academic Senate is a partner in the shared governance model of UC Riverside, overseeing the university's educational course. Our Campus UCR is home to state-of-the art facilities, laboratories, and offices. Campus is located in great proximity to Los Angeles, San Diego and Orange County’s metropolitan areas at a much lower cost of living. Riverside is less than an hour drive to beautiful and diverse recreation areas, surrounding mountain, desert, lake, and beach landscapes. Our Research With a reputation for innovation, UCR is a place where dedicated researches get the support and resources they need to make great strides. Our faculty members continually make discoveries that drive change, causing positive economic, scientific, and social shifts across the globe. Our People UC Riverside’s 850 faculty members range from established professors in the prime of their research to budding academics bringing exciting new ideas to established fields of study. A team of visionaries, our strength is in our diversity. Previous Next Academic Personnel Office The Academic Personnel Office (APO) is committed to excellence, ensuring UC Riverside recruits, develops, and retains its world-class academics. This includes overseeing issues such as the appointment of faculty, merit reviews, and promotions for faculty and other academic employees. Additionally, the office handles employment matters for lecturers, adjunct professors, librarians, and other academic employees whose work supports the university’s mission. Events and workshops hosted by the Vice Provost for Academic Personnel and APO serve as excellent resources for new and existing faculty members, department chairs, and more. Resources for Faculty CHILD CARE TRANSPORTATION VISIT CAMPUS NEWS: INSIDE UCR ACADEMIC SEARCHES PROVOST SEARCHES OUTSTANDING BENEFITS HUMAN RESOURCES Research Computing Research Computing enables researchers at UCR by allowing them to take advantage of powerful onsite, offsite and cloud computing resources, support, consulting, and training. Research Computing can facilitate connections with an evolving list of resources able to meet today’s research goals. Their team connects researchers to meaningful computing, consulting and support along the various stages of the research life cycle. They work in conjunction with The Library, Bourns College of Engineering (BCOE), College of Natural & Agricultural Sciences, School of Medicine, The Office of Research and Economic Development, The UCR Research IT Leaders and other groups on and off-campus to help bring these resources and technologies to our faculty. Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR University Communications 1156 Hinderaker Hall tel: (951) 827-1012 email: webteam@ucr.edu Find Us Related Links Campus Return UCR Admissions UCR News Colleges and Schools Graduate Division UCR Jobs UCR Health Giving Follow Us: Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel