Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Division of Student Affairs Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Division of Student AffairsOpen main menu Close Open search Administration Wellness Close Wellness Student Health & Wellness Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) Campus Recreation Student Conduct Wellness Ready Involvement Close Involvement Events and Activity Approval Student Involvement & Leadership Center Inclusion Center Center for Community Engagement Residence Life Fraternity & Sorority Life Veterans Resource Center Involvement Ready Support Close Support Emergency Hardship Fund Division Scholarships Other USU Student Services Report Concerns Close Report Concerns Report Student of Concern Report Sexual Misconduct or Discrimination Report Misconduct Student Fees News Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Student Affairs The Division of Student Affairs inspires, engages, and challenges students through inclusive, holistic, student-centered programming. Engagement We strive to create a community where co-curricular experiences strengthen and broaden student learning inside and outside of the classroom. Collaboration We develop meaningful and purposeful relationships that support students. Leadership We expand the capacity of students to develop skills that enable them to achieve success and inspire others. Inclusion We value every individual and seek to understand, respect, and celebrate our diversity. Wellness We encourage a balanced life, healthy choices, and an environment that facilitates a sense of belonging for every student. Wellness We care about the physical, mental, and emotional wellness of our students, and support you with health and wellness services, recreation opportunities, and an inclusive atmosphere. Student Health and Wellness Center Provides a variety of health and wellness services to students, including general medical care, minor surgery, psychiatry, and more. SHWC Website Counseling and Psychological Services Embraces a holistic approach to student development by removing psychological, emotional, and behavioral barriers to learning and success through short-term therapy. CAPS Website Campus Recreation Offers many resources to maintain physical wellness through fitness classes, personal training, competitve sports, aqautics, and outdoor programs and trips. Campus Rec Website Student Conduct and Community Standards Helps students to achieve success in their academic, living and learning environment by providing resources to assist victims, accused, student code violators and others. Conduct Website Involvement From student government to service opportunities to tons of campus clubs and organizations, there are plenty of ways to meet people and get involved with activities. Student Involvement and Leadership Center Promotes involvement and leadership development for all students through student organizations and co-curricular programs focused on intentional student learning. Exemplifies student empowerment and enhances academic success. Involvement Website Inclusion Center Embraces, supports, and advocates for every student. The USU Inclusion Center creates an environment of acceptance, respect, and empowerment. Inclusion Website Center for Community Engagement Develop active citizens by empowering students to explore civic identity, develop leadership skills, and address community-identified needs, locally and around the world. CCE Website Residence Life Provide resources and support for Aggies living on campus to ensure they have what they need to be successful students, and citizens. Promotes personal growth, healthy lifestyles, social responsibility, and academic success. Residence Life Website Fraternity and Sorority Life Values-based organizations that promote leadership development networking, friendships, academic support, and philanthropy. FSL Website Veterans Resource Center Assist USU student veterans in their transition and adjustment from the military to academia and civilian life. Provides assistance with VA benefits, USU related topics or civilian matters. VRO Website Recent News from the Division Read Story April 11, 2022 CAPS to Host Stress Bust Event to Help Students Prepare for Finals Week Utah State University students, faculty and staff are all welcome to attend a self-care activity hosted by Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) on Monday, April 25, to help students get ready for Finals Week. Read Story March 31, 2022 USU Supporting Community With Ramadan Initiatives Multiple groups at USU are partnering to bring Ramadan initiatives and accommodations to the community this year - some for the first time, others for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic began. Read Story March 29, 2022 Revamped MyUSU Showing High Adoption, Activity Rates In August 2021, Utah State University launched the upgraded MyUSU 2.0. Since its launch, the platform has seen high usage from students who have appreciated the upgraded system. Get More News Division of Student Affairs CONTACT US 0175 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1712 NEWSLETTER Receive insights into the USU student experience through the Division of Student Affairs monthly newsletter. Subscribe to Student Affairs Newletter Subscribe EMPLOYEE RESOURCES Business Services Emergency Procedures Marketing and Communications Contact Us Assessment Student Fees Student Award Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page