Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Wisconsin Idea One of the longest and deepest traditions surrounding the University of Wisconsin, the Wisconsin Idea signifies a general principle: that education should influence people’s lives beyond the boundaries of the classroom. See more than 1,000 examples of the Wisconsin Idea in action State Impact stories 2021 Economic Impact Report The Wisconsin Idea in action UW serves the Madison community Guided by our commitment to public service, we are active participants in the Madison area. This strong bond is reinforced through UW–Madison’s involvement with schools, cultural organizations, non-profits and more. Office of Community Relations South Madison Partnership Division of Continuing Studies And the state of Wisconsin as a whole UW–Madison is a powerful economic engine for Wisconsin, generating $15 billion annually in economic impact. Our contributions make Wisconsin financially stronger and more competitive across all industries. University of Wisconsin Extension Office of Business Engagement University Research Park School of Medicine and Public Health Our impact spans the nation The UW is home to many of today’s top thinkers, researchers, and leaders, who are frequently sought out to help with the nation’s emerging challenges. UW–Madison Experts Guide Reilly Baldwin Wisconsin Idea Endowment University Veteran Services And the world UW–Madison's history of collaboration gives us a global perspective on pressing issues facing our world. We recruit the best, and we generously fund projects that seek to improve lives far beyond our borders. Wisconsin Without Borders Global Health Institute Wisconsin Idea Fellowship Peace Corps at UW–Madison Origins of the Wisconsin Idea I shall never be content until the beneficent influence of the University reaches every family of the state. UW President Charles Van Hise in 1905 Read more about Van Hise Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu