Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Jackson School of International Studies 401 Thomson Hall 206-543-4370 Website Faculty Website jsis@uw.edu The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies (JSIS) is dedicated to interdisciplinary and comparative teaching and research about the peoples, cultures, and religions of the world and their interactions with one another. The Jackson School sponsors speakers, major conferences, career workshops, and other public- service activities that support and further our mission. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Comparative Religion Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative Religion Program of Study: Major: Global and Regional Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Global and Regional Studies Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Asia Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Asia Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Canada Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Canada Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Europe Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Europe Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Jewish Studies Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Jewish Studies Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Program of Study: Minor: Arctic Studies Minor in Arctic Studies Program of Study: Minor: Comparative Religion Minor in Comparative Religion Program of Study: Minor: Hellenic Studies Minor in Hellenic Studies Program of Study: Minor: International Studies Minor in International Studies Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Africa and the African Diaspora Minor in International Studies: Africa and the African Diaspora Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Canada Minor in International Studies: Canada Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: China Minor in International Studies: China Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Comparative Islamic Studies Minor in International Studies: Comparative Islamic Studies Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Europe Minor in International Studies: Europe Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Japan Minor in International Studies: Japan Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Jewish Studies Minor in International Studies: Jewish Studies Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Korea Minor in International Studies: Korea Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Minor in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Middle East Minor in International Studies: Middle East Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia Minor in International Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: South Asia Minor in International Studies: South Asia Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Southeast Asia Minor in International Studies: Southeast Asia Program of Study: Minor: Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazilian Studies Minor in Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazilian Studies Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (International Studies) Doctor Of Philosophy (International Studies) Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Cross-Cultural Religious Literacy Graduate Certificate in Cross-Cultural Religious Literacy Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Korea Studies Graduate Certificate in Korean Studies Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Russian, East European And Central Asian Studies Graduate Certificate In Russian, East European And Central Asian Studies Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In South Asian Studies Graduate Certificate In South Asian Studies Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies Master Of Arts In International Studies Master Of Arts In International Studies (Applied Internationl Studies) (fee-based) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (China Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (China Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Comparative Religion) Master Of Arts In International Studies (Comparative Religion) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Japan Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (Japan Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Korea Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (Korea Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Middle East Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (Middle East Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Russia, East European and Central Asian Studies) Master Of Arts In Inter Studies (Russia, East European And Central Asian Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (South Asian Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (South Asian Studies) Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Southeastern Asian Studies) Master Of Arts In International Studies (Southeast Asian Studies) Undergraduate Programs Jackson School of International Studies 111 Thomson Hall 206-543-6001 jsisadv@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Comparative Religion Program Overview The program in Comparative Religion is known for its unusually large range of course offerings in the religious traditions of both the East and West. The faculty has particular strength in history, anthropology, and sociology. Participants in the program have an opportunity to enroll in small classes and interact with a faculty that puts emphasis on maintaining close contact with students. Comparative Religion has four tracks: History of Religions-Western Emphasis; History of Religions-Eastern Emphasis; Religion and Society; and Religion and Symbolic Expression. The program offers a Bachelor of Arts degree in Comparative Religion. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative Religion Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: JSIS C 201, JSIS C 202. Courses that develop writing proficiency. Courses in particular religious traditions such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism. Courses in the history of civilizations such as Chinese, South Asian, and Western. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Comparative Religion Credential Overview The program in Comparative Religion is known for its unusually large range of course offerings in the religious traditions of both the East and West. The faculty has particular strength in history, anthropology, and sociology. Participants in the program have an opportunity to enroll in small classes and interact with a faculty that puts emphasis on maintaining close contact with students. Comparative Religion has four tracks: History of Religions-Western Emphasis; History of Religions-Eastern Emphasis; Religion and Society; and Religion and Symbolic Expression. The program offers a Bachelor of Arts degree in Comparative Religion. Completion Requirements 55 credits JSIS C 201, JSIS C 202; JSIS B 380/CHID 380; JSIS 201 35 additional credits in comparative religion courses, of which at least 15 must be at the 300 level or above, selected from the three rubrics of textual canons, historical traditions, and social contexts and cultural forms. The distribution must include at least 5 credits and no more than 20 credits in any particular rubric. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Global and Regional Studies Program Overview The Jackson School combines the social sciences, humanities, and professional fields to enhance understanding of our increasingly interconnected world. The Global and Regional Studies program equips students with the skills (including writing and foreign languages) and the disciplinary tools needed to analyze global and regional issues and challenges. Students can choose from a variety of thematic and regional concentrations in shaping their course of study. The program's capstone experience provides students with a bridge between their academic and professional pursuits, either by participating in a team-based creation of policy reports and recommendations that are evaluated by external policy experts or by deepening their research and publication skills. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Global and Regional Studies Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Global and Regional Studies Credential Overview The Jackson School combines the social sciences, humanities, and professional fields to enhance understanding of our increasingly interconnected world. The Global and Regional Studies program equips students with the skills (including writing and foreign languages) and the disciplinary tools needed to analyze global and regional issues and challenges. Students can choose from a variety of thematic and regional concentrations in shaping their course of study. The program's capstone experience provides students with a bridge between their academic and professional pursuits, either by participating in a team-based creation of policy reports and recommendations that are evaluated by external policy experts or by deepening their research and publication skills. Completion Requirements Competency in a language other than English through the second-year college level (proficiency requirement prior to graduation), plus 50 credits as follows: Introductory Courses: 15 credits from JSIS 200, JSIS 201, JSIS 202, JSIS 203, RELIG 201, RELIG 202. Political Economy: 5 credits from list of approved courses. Refer to department website for list of approved courses. Culture, Power & Religion: 5 credits from list of approved courses. Refer to department website for list of approved courses. No overlap allowed with courses chosen in "Concentration I/Themes". Concentration I/Themes: 10 credits from one of following themes: (1) Environment and Health; (2) States and Markets; (3) Culture, Power and Religion; (4) Technology, Security and Diplomacy; (5) Rights and Movements. Refer to department website for list of approved courses. Concentration II/Regions: 10 credits in one of the following regions: (1) Africa; (2) Americas; (3) Europe; (4) Russia/Eastern Europe/Central Asia; (5) Asia; (6) Middle East; (7) Arctic. Refer to department website for list of approved courses. Capstone Experience (5 credits): JSIS 495 or JSIS 498 Minimum 25 credits taken in 300/400 level courses. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Asia Program Overview The International Studies (Asia) major provides students with the background and analytical tools to understand the history and contemporary issues in Asia's many regions and countries. Students in this major can choose a general and cross-regional course of study, or they can concentrate in one of five countries/regions: China, Korea, Japan, South Asia and Southeast Asia. Students may select any Asian language to fulfill the programs two-year college-level language requirement. Students who are native speakers of an Asian language may satisfy this requirement by demonstrating proof of fluency or proficiency through the second year college level. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Asia Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Either JSIS 203 or JSIS A 207, and two introductory Asian civilization courses (see major requirements, below). Progress toward two years of a relevant Asian language. Courses that develop writing skills, especially in the social sciences. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Asia Completion Requirements 80 credits 30 credits or second-year equivalent language training in a language appropriate to student's concentration, plus 50 credits as follows: Either JSIS 203 or JSIS A 207 (5 credits) JSIS 201 (5 credits) An Asian civilization course in student's concentration chosen from JSIS A 212/HSTAS 212, JSIS A 241/HSTAS 241, JSIS A 242, HSTAS 201, HSTAS 202, HSTAS 211, JSIS A 206, JSIS A 221/HSTAS 221 (5 credits) 35 credits of approved coursework from one regional or country concentration, or from the general Asia concentration Approved research paper required in one of the upper-division concentration courses Minimum grade of 2.0 in all courses counted toward the major (except first- and second-year language courses, where grades must average 2.00) 30 of the 35 credits required for the concentration requirement must be taken in residence through the UW. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Canada Program Overview The Canadian Studies Program is an interdisciplinary program designed to promote the understanding of Canada, of Canada’s relationships with the United States, and of Canada’s major role in the Commonwealth and in the United Nations. Core courses introduce the student to the origins and evolution of the Canadian people, their society and culture; interdisciplinary courses broaden the student’s scope of understanding. Canada-related courses are offered as well in many of the university’s professional schools. Language competency in French through the second year is required for completion of the B.A. degree. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Canada Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: ECON 200, ECON 201. Progress toward two years of French language. Canadian history courses. Courses that develop writing skills. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Canada Completion Requirements 30 credits or second-year-equivalent French language training, plus 53 credits as follows: JSIS 200, JSIS 201, JSIS 202; ECON 200, ECON 201; JSIS A 356, JSIS A 498 Minimum 18 credits from approved Canadian Studies elective course list Back to Top Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Europe Program Overview The European Studies major prepares students to pursue careers requiring an understanding of all the forces, both material and cultural, contemporary and historical, that are shaping Europe today. These include the legacies of the Cold War and the complex dynamics of European political and economic integration. Students gain analytical and writing skills that can be applied widely in a wide variety of professional areas. The equivalent of second-year proficiency in a European language is required by the time of graduation, either through language study or placement testing. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Europe Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Progress toward two years of a modern European language. A survey course on modern Europe. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Europe Completion Requirements 50 credits plus language proficiency Modern European language through second year, either through proficiency test or successful completion of an applicable second college-level year (e.g., Spanish 203). See approved list. JSIS A 301 (5 credits) JSIS 201 (5 credits) European history (10 credits from approved list) Global elective (5 credits from approved list) European Studies electives (20 credits from approved list; minimum 15 credits at 300-400 level) European Studies senior capstone: JSIS A 494 or JSIS A 495 (5 credits) Minimum cumulative 2.0 GPA in all European Studies major courses Back to Top Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Jewish Studies Program Overview The Jewish Studies major offers students from varied backgrounds and disciplines a comprehensive and interdisciplinary perspective on the study of Jews and Judaism. Students learn about the geographic, historical, philosophical, and cultural diversity of the Jewish experience, including contemporary. They also gain critical and analytical skills that can be applied widely, including to the understanding and study of current challenges facing Jews and Judaism in the world. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Jewish Studies Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: JSIS C 145; JSIS C 250/HSTCMP 250; JSIS C 201; JSIS 200, JSIS 201, or JSIS 202. Courses that develop critical analysis skills and writing proficiency. Courses in modern or biblical Hebrew. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Jewish Studies Credential Overview The Jewish Studies major offers students from varied backgrounds and disciplines a comprehensive and interdisciplinary perspective on the study of Jews and Judaism. Students learn about the geographic, historical, philosophical, and cultural diversity of the Jewish experience, including contemporary. They also gain critical and analytical skills that can be applied widely, including to the understanding and study of current challenges facing Jews and Judaism in the world. Completion Requirements 50 credits Either proficiency in one Jewish language, completion of two years (or equivalent) in one Jewish language, or completion of one year each (or equivalent) in two different Jewish languages. See adviser for approved Jewish languages. Students who wish to satisfy language requirements by demonstrating sufficient knowledge may take a proficiency examination. See department adviser for information. Introductory Courses (15 credits): JSIS C 145; JSIS C 250/HSTCMP 250; one of JSIS 200, JSIS 201, or JSIS 202 Minimum 35 credits of electives from an approved list. May include up to 10 credits from the second year of Jewish language courses. See adviser for approved list. Minimum 25 credits at the 300-400 level Maximum 15 credits from an approved UW Study Abroad program (exclusive of language) Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Program of Study: Major: International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Program Overview The Latin American and Caribbean Studies major provides a comprehensive and interdisciplinary understanding of this major world region, emphasizing themes such as economic development, the role of the region in the global economy, the indigenous experience, popular movements, and relations between the region and the United States. Students will need second-year proficiency of one regional language, and first-year proficiency year of another regional language, by the time they graduate. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Substantial progress toward completing the language requirement described below. Courses in any of the following disciplines that deal with Latin America and the Caribbean: history, literature, economics, geography, sociology, political science. Admission Requirements Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Completion Requirements 52 credits plus language training, as follows: Training in two foreign languages of Latin America and the Caribbean, to include the sixth quarter (or equivalent) of one language chosen from Spanish, Portuguese, or French, and the third quarter (or equivalent) of a second of these languages JSIS 201 Latin American History (10 credits): Courses to be selected from an approved list.* Contemporary Latin America (15 credits): Courses drawn from a range of disciplines including anthropology, comparative literature, geography, international studies, and Spanish. See program website for a complete list of courses. Electives (15 credits): Courses on Latin America, the Caribbean, and international studies selected from an approved list* Interdisciplinary Seminar: JSIS A 486, JSIS A 492, or another course chosen from an approved list of research seminars JSIS 493: Senior paper or project *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Arctic Studies Program Overview Arctic & International Relations is a Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies (JSIS)-wide initiative, led by the Canadian Studies Center since 2008, to address the Arctic as an emerging global region and actor on the world stage. JSIS and the Center are working in partnership with a parallel initiative, Future of Ice – a College of the Environment, College of Arts and Sciences, and Applied Physics Laboratory initiative – to enhance the University of Washington’s (UW) profile in research, education and public engagement about the polar regions. JSIS and School of Oceanography proposed a minor in Arctic Studies that has been signed; the Office of Global Affairs, and the College of Arts and Sciences and the College of the Environment have sponsored a Canada Fulbright Visiting Chair in Arctic Studies; and, the Center, JSIS and a number of units in both colleges are collaborating on several projects. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Arctic Studies Minor in Arctic Studies Completion Requirements Minimum 28 credits Foundation Coursework (9 credits): ARCTIC 200; OCEAN 235; ARCTIC 401 Integrative Experience (3 credits): ARCTIC 400 Electives (minimum 16 credits): see adviser for approved list Minimum two courses from the approved social sciences list Minimum two courses from the approved sciences list Minimum one course with North-Star designation; may be combined with social science or science elective offering Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Minimum 15 credits taken from outside student's major requirements Minimum 15 credits 300- and 400-level coursework Minimum 15 credits completed in residence through the UW Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Comparative Religion Program Overview The program in Comparative Religion is known for its unusually large range of course offerings in the religious traditions of both the East and West. The faculty has particular strength in history, anthropology, and sociology. Participants in the program have an opportunity to enroll in small classes and interact with a faculty that puts emphasis on maintaining close contact with students. Comparative Religion has four tracks: History of Religions-Western Emphasis; History of Religions-Eastern Emphasis; Religion and Society; and Religion and Symbolic Expression. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Comparative Religion Minor in Comparative Religion Completion Requirements 30 credits as follows: JSIS C 201, JSIS C 202 15 additional credits in comparative religion courses or joint-listed equivalents 5 additional credits chosen from comparative religion courses or from an approved list of electives. See department website for approved list of courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Hellenic Studies Program Overview The minor in Hellenic Studies is designed for students interested in acquiring a comprehensive study of the Greek world, from antiquity to the present. The curriculum of the Hellenic Studies program draws on the histories and methodologies of the Social Sciences and the Humanities, encompassing a broad range of courses in the disciplines of Classics, Comparative Literature, Classical Archaeology, History, Art History, Comparative Religion, Political Science and Philosophy. Hellenic Studies enables students to study the Greek world in depth and from a variety of scholarly perspectives. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Hellenic Studies Minor in Hellenic Studies Credential Overview The minor in Hellenic Studies is designed for students interested in acquiring a comprehensive study of the Greek world, from antiquity to the present. The curriculum of the Hellenic Studies program draws on the histories and methodologies of the Social Sciences and the Humanities, encompassing a broad range of courses in the disciplines of Classics, Comparative Literature, Classical Archaeology, History, Art History, Comparative Religion, Political Science and Philosophy. Hellenic Studies enables students to study the Greek world in depth and from a variety of scholarly perspectives. Completion Requirements 25 credits Minimum 5 credits from history and 10 credits from contemporary Greece (see department website for list of approved courses) (15 credits) Electives (see department website for list of approved courses) (10 credits) Minimum 15 credits at the 300-400 level Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies Program Overview The Jackson School combines the social sciences, humanities and professional fields to enhance understanding of our increasingly interconnected world. The International Studies (General) program equips students with the skills and tools needed to analyze global issues and challenges. The minor exposes students to a variety of regional and thematic classes and allows them explore issues of global reach in an interdisciplinary course of study. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies Minor in International Studies Credential Overview The International Studies (general) minor combines study of the social sciences to understand global issues. Using a multidisciplinary approach the minor encourages students to look at our increasingly interdependent world in order to learn how to study it and better understand its politics, societies, economies, and cultures. Completion Requirements 30 credits: 10 credits chosen from JSIS 200, JSIS 201, JSIS 202 15 credits in JSIS B-prefix courses, including at least 10 credits at the 300 or 400 level (courses with other JSIS prefixes are not eligible, but JSIS 478 may be counted). 5 additional credits chosen from courses in any of these prefixes: JSIS A, JSIS B, JSIS C, JSIS D Minimum 2.0 grade required in each course applied toward the minor. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Africa and the African Diaspora Program Overview African Studies involves a cross-campus, interdisciplinary group of faculty, staff, and students who have an interest in questions relating to Africa and the African Diaspora. Africa-focused courses are taught in a variety of scholarly disciplines and programs, including Aquatic & Fishery Sciences, American Ethnic Studies, Anthropology, Architecture, Art History, Bioengineering, Comparative History of Ideas, English, Ethnomusicology, Forest Resources, French, Genome Sciences, Geography, Global Health, Health Services, History, Honors Program, Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (UW-Bothell), Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (UW-Tacoma), International Studies, Linguistics, Marine Affairs, Music, Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations, Nursing, Public Affairs, Political Science, School of Law, School of Nursing, School of Public Health, Social Work, Sociology, and Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Africa and the African Diaspora Minor in International Studies: Africa and the African Diaspora Credential Overview African Studies involves a cross-campus, interdisciplinary group of faculty, staff, and students who have an interest in questions relating to Africa and the African Diaspora. The minor in Africa and the African Diaspora offers students a wide variety of courses on Africa and on the historical and current experiences of peoples and communities with historical roots in Africa. Completion Requirements 30 credits 30 credits from at least three departments whose approved courses are shown on the African Studies website Minimum 15 credits at the 300 level or above Minimum 5 credits from the approved list of courses on the African diaspora Minimum 10 credits from the approved list of courses on Africa Maximum 10 credits of language courses, which may include 5 credits at the third-year level or above from the Africa-relevant languages of Arabic, French, or Portuguese and 10 credits of Swahili at the second-year level or above Other courses not on the website may be approved by the program office. Minimum 15 credits completed through the UW Minimum 2.0 grade in each course applied toward the minor Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Canada Program Overview The Canadian Studies Program is an interdisciplinary program designed to promote the understanding of Canada, of Canada’s relationships with the United States, and of Canada’s major role in the Commonwealth and in the United Nations. Core courses introduce the student to the origins and evolution of the Canadian people, their society and culture; interdisciplinary courses broaden the student’s scope of understanding. Canada-related courses are offered as well in many of the university’s professional schools. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Canada Minor in International Studies: Canada Completion Requirements 25 credits JSIS A 356 and JSIS A 498 (10 credits) 15 credits of electives chosen from an approved list. See department website for approved list of courses. Minimum grade of 2.0 in each course applied to the minor Minimum 15 credits toward the minor completed through the UW Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: China Program Overview The China concentration in Asian Studies provides students with a sound foundation in one or more aspects of the study of China. The faculty has particular strength in history, both modern and pre-modern, as well as the social sciences. In addition, an extensive range of outstanding courses is available in the areas of language and literature. Students in the China Program are encouraged to take advantage of intensive overseas language training offered by the Inter-University Program in Taipei or the Beijing Chinese Language Program available through Beijing University. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: China Minor in International Studies: China Completion Requirements 30 credits HSTAS 211 and either JSIS C 202 or one additional introductory Asian civilization course (10 credits)* 10 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from the China history/social science electives list* 5 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from the China history/social science list or the China arts/literature electives list* 5 additional credits chosen from: the China history/social science electives list*, or upper-division transfer courses on China, or Chinese language beyond second-year level. Minimum grade of 2.0 required in each course applied toward the minor *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Comparative Islamic Studies Program Overview The program in Comparative Religion is known for its unusually large range of course offerings in the religious traditions of both the East and West. The faculty has particular strength in history, anthropology, and sociology. Participants in the program have an opportunity to enroll in small classes and interact with a faculty that puts emphasis on maintaining close contact with students. Comparative Religion has four tracks: History of Religions-Western Emphasis; History of Religions-Eastern Emphasis; Religion and Society; and Religion and Symbolic Expression. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Comparative Islamic Studies Minor in International Studies: Comparative Islamic Studies Completion Requirements 30 credits NEAR E 210/JSIS A 210 (5) NEAR E 211/JSIS C 211 or NEAR E 212/JSIS C 212 (5) 10 credits in Islamic religious traditions and texts, chosen from an approved list (see department website) 10 credits in history, society, and culture of Islam, chosen from an approved list (see department website) Minimum grade of 2.0 in each course counted toward the minor Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Europe Program Overview The purpose of the curriculum in European Studies is to help prepare students to pursue careers requiring an understanding of all the forces, both material and cultural, contemporary and historical, that are shaping Europe today, in the transitions involved in the post-Soviet era and the movement toward greater political, economic, and cultural integration among the various nations of Europe West, East, North and South. Students may pursue European Studies either as an area concentration for its own sake or as a supplement to the development of particular expertise in a related discipline. Students may also focus, within the major, on Hellenic Studies or Russian, east European and Central Asian Studies. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Europe Minor in International Studies: Europe Completion Requirements 25 credits JSIS A 301 (5 credits) JSIS 201 (5 credits) European Studies elective courses (15 credits from approved list) Language proficiency through first-year (from approved list) Minimum 15 credits at the 300-400 level Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Japan Program Overview The Japan concentration combines language training with interdisciplinary study to give students a solid background in one or more areas of Japanese studies. Students are offered courses to an advanced level in the following: interdisciplinary studies, economics, business, political science, history, art, literature, and language. Advanced language training is available through the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies in Tokyo, of which the University of Washington is a sponsoring member. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Japan Minor in International Studies: Japan Credential Overview The Japan concentration combines language training with interdisciplinary study to give students a solid background in one or more areas of Japanese studies. Students are offered courses to an advanced level in the following: interdisciplinary studies, economics, business, political science, history, art, literature, and language. Advanced language training is available through the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies in Tokyo, of which the University of Washington is a sponsoring member. Completion Requirements 30 credits JSIS A 241/HSTAS 241 or JSIS A 242 and one course on a different Asian civilization (10 credits)* 10 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from the Japan history/social science electives list* 5 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from either the Japan history/social science list or from the Japan arts/literature elective list* 5 additional credits chosen from: the Japan history/social science electives list*, or upper-division transfer courses on Japan, or Japanese language beyond second-year level. Minimum grade of 2.0 required in each course applied toward the minor. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Jewish Studies Program Overview Jewish Studies offers students from varied backgrounds and disciplines a comprehensive and interdisciplinary perspective on the study of Jews and Judaism. In learning about the geographic, temporal, philosophical, and cultural diversity of the Jewish experience, students gain critical skills that complement any direction of study and can be applied to myriad future aspirations. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Jewish Studies Minor in International Studies: Jewish Studies Credential Overview The Jewish Studies minor offers students from varied backgrounds and disciplines an interdisciplinary perspective on the study of Jews and Judaism. Students learn about the geographic, historical, philosophical, and cultural diversity of the Jewish experience, including contemporary. Completion Requirements 30 credits as follows: JSIS C 145; JSIS C 250/HSTCMP 250 (10 credits) 20 credits of Jewish studies courses from an approved electives list. See adviser or department website for list of approved courses. May include up to 5 credits of Jewish language courses. Minimum 15 credits at the 300-400 level Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Korea Program Overview The Paull Shin Korea Studies Program focuses on Korea within the broader context of East Asia. While it concentrates on the history, society, and language of Korea, courses on China and Japan are also an important part of the curriculum. In addition, visiting professors in other disciplines regularly complement the resident faculty. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Korea Minor in International Studies: Korea Completion Requirements 30 credits JSIS A 212/HSTAS 212 and one additional introductory Asian civilization course (10 credits)* 20 credits of electives, 15 of which must be taken through the UW, to include: (a) 10 credits chosen from the list of core courses*; (b) 5 credits chosen from the list of core courses or the list of electives*; (c) 5 additional credits chosen from: the Korea history/social science electives list*, or upper-division transfer courses on Korea, or Korean language beyond second-year level. Minimum grade of 2.0 required in each course applied toward the minor. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Program Overview The Latin American and Caribbean Studies minor provides an interdisciplinary understanding of this major world region, emphasizing themes such as economic development, popular movements, the role of the region in the global economy, and the indigenous experience. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Minor in International Studies: Latin America and Caribbean Completion Requirements 30 credits as follows, plus foreign language: One year of Spanish or Portuguese, or equivalent proficiency At least 5 credits in history chosen from an approved list* At least 15 credits chosen from an approved list of courses on contemporary Latin America* At least 10 additional credits chosen from the history or contemporary Latin America lists, or from an approved list of electives* At least 20 of the 30 credits must be completed through the UW (UW foreign study programs included). Minimum 2.0 grade required in each course applied toward the minor. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Middle East Program Overview Middle East Studies offers interdisciplinary programs at the undergraduate and graduate level. Students take courses through the Jackson School of International Studies and other departments on campus, covering Middle East issues and challenges in a variety of social science and humanities disciplines. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Middle East Minor in International Studies: Middle East Credential Overview The undergraduate curriculum in Middle East studies provides a grounding in the modern Middle East and a view of how this region fits into the world community politically, historically, and economically. To achieve this understanding, students in the minor take courses in the social sciences and the humanities related to the Middle East. Completion Requirements 28-30 credits Two courses chosen from JSIS A 210/NEAR E 210, JSIS A 215/NEAR E 213, ANTH 318, HIST 161, or HIST 163 20 credits of electives chosen from the approved list. See department website for list of approved courses. Study of a Middle East language is encouraged, but not required. A maximum 5 credits in Arabic, modern Hebrew, Persian, or Turkish language beyond the first-year level may be applied toward the 20 credits of approved electives. No credits from any first-year language course may be counted. No more than 12 credits counted in the minor may also be counted toward requirements of a major. Minimum 15 credits of 300-/400-level courses Minimum 15 credits completed in residence through the UW Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the minor. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia Program Overview Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies offers interdisciplinary programs at the undergraduate and graduate level. Students take courses through the Jackson School of International Studies and other departments on campus, covering issues and challenges in the region in a variety of social science and humanities disciplines. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia Minor in International Studies: Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia Credential Overview A minor in Russian, East European, and Central Asian Studies (REECAS) allows students to select courses from a diverse range of courses involving history, politics, economics, languages and cultures. Drawn from Jackson School courses, as well as other departments, the REECAS minor is a solid complement to anyone interested in enhancing regional knowledge for future career placement. Completion Requirements 30 credits from courses in at least three disciplines JSIS A 301 (5 credits) An approved modern REECAS survey course chosen from the approved list* (5 credits) 20 credits of electives at the 300 level or above, chosen from the approved list* Study of a regional language is encouraged, but not required. Maximum 10 credits of BCS, Czech, Estonian, Kazakh, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Russian, Uighur, or Uzbek language beyond the first-year level may be applied toward the 30-credit total. Minimum 15 credits completed in residence through the UW Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the minor Minimum 18 credits outside student's major Participation in service learning and Study Abroad programs in completing minor requirements is encouraged. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: South Asia Program Overview South Asia includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Maldives, Afghanistan and Tibet. Students are expected to gain proficiency in a South Asian language (Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and Sanskrit are offered regularly at all levels) and to pursue a course of study that includes both disciplinary concentration and interdisciplinary breadth. Students have opportunities to pursue language study in India through the program’s membership in the American Institute of Indian Studies. Other organizations provide similar opportunities for study in many of the other countries of the region. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: South Asia Minor in International Studies: South Asia Credential Overview South Asia includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan, Maldives, Afghanistan and Tibet. Students are expected to gain proficiency in a South Asian language (Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and Sanskrit are offered regularly at all levels) and to pursue a course of study that includes both disciplinary concentration and interdisciplinary breadth. Students have opportunities to pursue language study in India through the program’s membership in the American Institute of Indian Studies. Other organizations provide similar opportunities for study in many of the other countries of the region. Completion Requirements 30 credits HSTAS 202 or JSIS A 200 (5 credits) One additional introductory Asian civilization course (5 credits)* 15 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from the approved list* 5 additional credits chosen from: the South Asia history/social science electives list*, or upper-division transfer courses on South Asia, or a South Asian language beyond second-year level Minimum grade of 2.0 required in each course applied toward the minor. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: International Studies: Southeast Asia Program Overview The Southeast Asian Studies concentration promotes the study of Viet Nam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma, Singapore, Brunei, Timor Loro’sae and the Philippines. Core courses introducing students to the cultures and societies of the region are offered in the Jackson School and in the Departments of Anthropology and History. Additional courses are offered by the Departments of Geography, Asian Languages and Literature, Political Science, Sociology, and in the School of Public Health. Language instruction in Thai, Indonesian, Tagalog, Khmer, Burmese and Vietnamese is offered at beginning and intermediate levels, and Thai, Indonesian, Tagalog and Vietnamese offered at the advanced level. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in International Studies: Southeast Asia Minor in International Studies: Southeast Asia Completion Requirements 30 credits JSIS A 221/HSTAS 221 (5 credits) One introductory Asian civilization course (5 credits)* 15 credits of electives taken through the UW, chosen from the approved list* 5 additional credits chosen from: the Southeast Asia history/social science electives list*, or upper-division transfer courses on South Asia, or a Southeast Asian language beyond second-year level. Minimum grade of 2.0 required in each course applied toward the minor. *See department website for list of approved courses. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazilian Studies Program Overview The Minor in Luso-Brazilian Studies offers a combination of Portuguese language classes with elective courses with a focus on the Luso-Brazilian world. The elective classes are offered in Latin American and Caribbean Studies, African Studies, Cultural Studies, Interdisciplinary Studies, Sociology, Anthropology, Film, History, Global Health, and other related areas. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazilian Studies Minor in Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazilian Studies Completion Requirements 25 credits PORT 202, PORT 203, PORT 301 (PORT 299 may substitute for PORT 202 or PORT 203) (15 credits) Two courses from the following: JSIS A 243, JSIS A 410, JSIS A 365/PORT 365, PORT 366, JSIS B 436/POL S 436, HSTLAC 482, JSIS A 355/SOC 355 (5 credits may be cross-listed with the student's major or from another minor/certificate) (10 credits) Minimum 15 credits at the 300-400 level Minimum 20 credits taken at the UW Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The majors offered in the School of International Studies emphasize development of critical thinking and provide a challenging framework for research and writing. Graduates attain competency in foreign language and an understanding of the political, economic, and cultural underpinnings of the global system and specific world regions. This background lays a foundation for advanced study in professional and academic disciplines, and for careers in the evolving global community. Graduates work in a wide range of jobs, depending on their interests and skills, including: Foreign Service officers, international trade specialists, political analysts, human rights associates, research assistants, social studies and language teachers, international student advisers, foreign study coordinators, program officers/managers for international non-profits and NGOs, foreign exchange specialists, international sales representatives/managers, import/export brokers, marketing analysts, associate editors/publicists, international news writers/journalists. Instructional and Research Facilities: More than 1.5 million volumes in the University library system are related to international studies. The library has a large current international and domestic newspaper collection, with an emphasis on Slavic, South, and Southeast Asian papers and a selection of European papers. Specialized facilities include the East Asia Library, with a comprehensive collection of manuscripts, books, and serials on China, Japan, and Korea. The University's library holds an extensive collection of books and serials relating to South Asia. The library participates in the U.S. Library of Congress Public Law 480 program, which supplies current publications from India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; and is a member of the South Asian Microfilm Program of the Center for Research Libraries, providing access to a large collection of microfilm newspapers, journals, and documents on South Asia. Jackson School undergraduates can draw upon an extensive roster of more than 500 UW Study-Abroad programs and exchanges, in 70 countries, to enrich their studies. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The School's Office of Career Services provides resources for students exploring job and internship opportunities. The Jackson School has limited funds available for students who serve as unpaid interns in nonprofit and governmental agencies. The Leslianne Shedd Memorial Internship Fund honors a Jackson School alumna killed while serving with the CIA. The Dorothy Fosdick Internship Fund is sponsored by the Henry M. Jackson Foundation in memory of the senator's foreign policy adviser. The George E. Taylor Internship Endowment supports students engaged in community-based internships. The Fathi-DiLuck Endowment supports unpaid internships with organizations in the greater Seattle area. Department Scholarships: Ivy Hovey Fitch Endowed Scholarship, Neal and Helen Fosseen Endowed Scholarship, David Hughes Endowed Scholarship (tuition); Vincent H. Gowen Scholarship (undergraduate-China); Margaret Mykut Scholarships; Ayako Betty Murakami Scholarship (Japan); I. Mervin and Georgiana Gorasht Scholarship, Arthur A. Jacobovitz Scholarship, Richard M. Willner Memorial Scholarship, and Jewish Studies Advisory Board Scholarship (Jewish Studies); Katherine M. Tyler Endowed Fellowships (Asia); Eugene and Marilyn Domoto Webb Scholarship and Marilyn Domoto Webb Fellowship (Comparative Religion); Margaret Mykut scholarships, Alice Wanamaker scholarships, and Jao scholarships (undergraduate study abroad). See also the funding opportunities described under Internships. Student Organizations/Associations: Jackson School Student Association Graduate Programs Jackson School of International Studies jsisma@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (International Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (International Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (International Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Cross-Cultural Religious Literacy This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate in Cross-Cultural Religious Literacy Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate in Cross-Cultural Religious Literacy Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Korea Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate in Korean Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate in Korean Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Russian, East European And Central Asian Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Russian, East European And Central Asian Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Russian, East European And Central Asian Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In South Asian Studies This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In South Asian Studies Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In South Asian Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Arts In International Studies Master Of Arts In International Studies (Applied Internationl Studies) (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Arts In International Studies (Applied Internationl Studies) (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (China Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (China Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (China Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Comparative Religion) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Comparative Religion) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (Comparative Religion) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Japan Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Japan Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (Japan Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Korea Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Korea Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (Korea Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Middle East Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Middle East Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (Middle East Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Russia, East European and Central Asian Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In Inter Studies (Russia, East European And Central Asian Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In Inter Studies (Russia, East European And Central Asian Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (South Asian Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (South Asian Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (South Asian Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Southeastern Asian Studies) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts In International Studies (Southeast Asian Studies) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts In International Studies (Southeast Asian Studies) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA