Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation This site is archived and is for reference purposes only Event Galleries for 2021-2022 events Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Meet President Gutmann More Meet President Gutmann Scholarship More Scholarship Selected Books Addresses & Articles News Highlights University Announcements Event Galleries Penn Compact 2022 More Penn Compact 2022 Inclusion: Increase Access Innovation: Integrate Knowledge Impact: Engage Locally, Nationally, Globally University Leadership More University Leadership President's Center Provost & Deans Senior Administrators History of the Presidency A Tribute to President Gutmann More A Tribute to President Gutmann Opening doors, transforming lives Seizing the present, building the future A global model The future is wide open Toggle Site Search Resources Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Webmail Penn A - Z Penn Directory Offices & Services Penn Home Search Search Close PennCompact2022 BUILDING ON A DECADE OF PROGRESS As engines of knowledge and new ideas, universities have the unique potential to define the future rather than be defined by it; to pioneer change rather than merely manage it. To do so requires a plan both visionary and pragmatic. The Penn Compact 2022 motivates community members to innovate, be radically inclusive, and positively impact their local, national, and global communities. Penn Compact Tenets Inclusion Our highest institutional priority is to prepare promising students of all races, religions, and backgrounds to become the leaders and innovators of the future. Innovation The drive to innovate compels our students and faculty to work across Penn’s myriad disciplines to create previously unimagined solutions to today’s—and tomorrow’s—most complex problems. Impact Effecting potent positive impact in our neighborhoods, nation, and world are the bricks on which democracy and global citizenship are built, and are the cornerstones of a Penn education. Signature Initiatives Grant-Based Financial Aid Program At Penn, all undergraduate financial aid is awarded on the basis of financial need. Penn does not offer aid based on academic or athletic merit. Penn covers demonstrated financial need with financial aid packages that consist entirely of grant funding and work study, assisting families across a wide range of the economic spectrum. This makes it possible for students from a variety of backgrounds to afford a Penn education. An Innovation Ecosystem The Pennovation Works is anchored by the Pennovation Center, a business incubator and laboratory that aligns and integrates researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs for the commercialization of research discoveries. Intended to marry entrepreneurs with an expert workforce and scientifically advanced facilities, key features of the Pennovation Center are the common creative spaces, including coworking areas, a cafe, and a venue for events and programs. Penn Connects 3.0 Penn Connects 3.0 is the University’s master plan to create an innovative and beautiful urban campus with vibrant living and learning spaces that make a positive impact on the local community. Building on Dr. Gutmann’s original campus plan, which added 5 million square feet of new and renovated space and increased open space by 25 percent, Penn Connects 3.0 reinforces the University’s sustainability objectives as outlined in its Climate and Sustainability Action Plan 3.0. Global Connections As a leading global university, Penn encourages its faculty and students to both go out into the world and welcome the world to them. The University has invested in state-of-the-art facilities to advance this engagement, including the Penn Wharton China Center, located in Beijing, the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy & Global Engagement in Washington, D.C., and Perry World House, a global policy research center at the heart of Penn’s campus. Disclaimer Emergency Services Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000