Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University College of Engineering Research Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search CoE Homepage CoE A-Z Index CoE Directory Signature Areas Advanced Materials and Manufacturing Engineered Medicine Engineering Education Energy Systems Resilient Infrastructures Secure Cyberspace and Autonomy Departments Centers Research Resources Engineering Research Institute (ERI) ERI Services ERI Funding Opportunities Blog ERI Personnel Research Development Support Programs Resources for Investigators Infrastructure for Research Research Highlights Students External Partners Engineering Research Institute Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and Research Information from the Office of the Vice President for Research Institutional and Agency Responses to COVID-19 and Additional Resources The Engineering Research Institute’s primary mission is to provide research-related services to College faculty to increase and diversify their research portfolios. ERI staff focus on engaging with faculty in all Engineering departments to grow research areas of strength, develop compelling responses to funding opportunities, and increase the number of competitive submissions to new agencies and large programs. When needed, ERI provides post-award project management support to ensure smooth execution of projects and research compliance, as well as appropriate engagement with Program Managers and Sponsors to position our faculty for follow-on funding. Engineering Research Institute Services Sponsored Funding Opportunity Exploration www.engineering.iastate.edu/eriopps Discover and disseminate federal and industry funding opportunities directly to faculty through the CoE website and subscription to weekly ERI Funding Opportunities Blog; match faculty research to open solicitations. Research Development Support Programs The College of Engineering is committed to helping our faculty increase and diversify the sources of their research funding. We offer the following research development support programs: 1.) Exploratory Research Program – Applications will be accepted two times a year: March 15 and September 15 for the project start date to coincide with the next semester boundary. Application instructions, including fillable cover page are available by clicking the links. An Excel budget template for these projects is available here. 2.) The Catron Fellowship has been awarded annually since 1987 to students researching practical ways to use solar energy. The late William (BSEcon ’31) and Lenore Catron, formerly of Sunland, California established the grant. Information about the Catron Fellowship is available here. The fellowships are for a total of one year duration, from August to August, for Ph.D. graduate students working in the area of solar energy. Applications are due annually on July 15th. 3.) Pursuit Development Funds – This program is focused on providing the resources needed to write compelling proposals. Opportunities for multi-investigator teams, new research directions, or large proposals are more likely to need the support provided by this program. Application deadline is the first business day of every month. 4.) Faculty Travel Program – This program supports meetings with sponsors, program officers, and collaborators for the purpose of establishing and expanding research funding. Applications are accepted any time, preferably 3 weeks in advance of the intended trip. Travel to a professional/scientific conference is not eligible. 5.) ACRI: Support for Developing Strategic Research Thrusts – There is no formal deadline for this program. Faculty interested in developing a proposal should contact Dr. Arun Somani. 6.) To enhance our research capabilities and improve space utilization, CoE seeks research infrastructure, space reorganization, and equipment proposals. Application instructions for CoE Equipment Funding Proposal Request (PDF). Your proposal must conform to requirements stated in the CFP, and you review your plans with your department chair before developing the proposal. Pre-award Services A summary of pre-award services offered by ERI is available here. For standard projects, submit a platinum sheet to request support at least 10 business days prior to the sponsor’s deadline. Complex projects are defined as including one or more of the following: Large funding level Multiple institutions (> 2) Challenging sponsor Cost Sharing is required For complex projects, the platinum sheet should be submitted at least one month prior to the sponsor’s deadline. Platinum sheets submitted after these deadlines will be evaluated; ERI support may be limited. Proposal review requests should be received a minimum of two weeks prior to the submission deadline. Manuscripts must be provided no later than 5 business days prior to the deadline. This service may be requested via the Platinum sheet. Please contact Lori Jarmon with questions. Post-award Project Management At the request of PIs and the concurrence of Department Chairs / Center Directors, ERI will provide post-award support for complex projects. Projects that may qualify are large, have multiple sub-contracts, and significant reporting requirements. Key Points: Review award terms and conditions for compliance issues Brief and alert PI on any unusual requirements in the grant/award Review and revise (if necessary) initial award budget Evaluate whether costs are allowed to ensure compliance with regulations related to sponsored projects Keep PI informed and updated of regulatory changes/issues Prepare and submit timely financial analysis/reports on each award Monitor cost-sharing during the award Monitor effort reporting Sub recipient monitoring and reporting Plan and perform timely close-out process, including extensions and completion of all final reports Schedule and lead (if necessary) routine project meetings Assist with the preparation and submission of technical reports Interface with Sponsor on the PI’s behalf Teaching Support Programs Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching (CELT): Annually, CELT offers funding through competitive grant programs to support innovative classroom practice in the range of learning environments including, face-to-face, blended, and online. CELT Presenter Grant Program Faculty and staff who received a CELT funded scholarship of a teaching and learning (SoTL) grant are eligible for the CELT Presenter Grant. The CELT Presenter Grant provides eligible faculty and staff with the opportunity to present their SoTL research findings at a teaching and learning higher education conference. Faculty and staff SoTL grant recipients (SoTL Scholars or Miller Faculty Fellowship) are encouraged to present their research at a conference that supports the dissemination of teaching strategies (e.g., The Teaching Professor Conference), Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (e.g., ISSOTL), disciplinary conferences, (e.g., an education track within your disciplinary conference) or are focused on teaching within a specific discipline (e.g., NACTA – North American Colleges and Teachers of Agriculture). The Presenter Grant Program supports delivery of an accepted or invited presentation, poster, or panel. Miller Faculty Fellowship Program The Miller Fellowships provide faculty with opportunities to enhance their scholarly work in the undergraduate academic programs of the university and to develop innovative approaches to enhance student learning. Who is Eligible to Apply? Any faculty member at Iowa State University (tenured, tenure-eligible, term, or a staff member with teaching appointment) may apply for a fellowship. What Can you Propose to Do? Applicants can propose to develop innovative new approaches to the teaching of existing undergraduate courses or to develop entirely new courses that will enrich the undergraduate experience. We expect to award five Miller Faculty Fellowships at a maximum individual award level of $15,000. Awards are competitive. Miller Open Education Mini-Grants The Miller Open Education Mini-Grants program is a new program co-sponsored by the University Library, the Center for Excellence in Learning & Teaching (CELT), and the Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost (SVPP). These grants provide instructors with opportunities to enhance their scholarship of teaching and learning by integrating Open Educational Resources (OER) into their courses. College of Engineering Learning and Teaching grants. This annual call will come out every Spring semester. Trainings and professional development opportunities: Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CELT) offers a number of events and Professional Development Opportunities. More information can be found at: https://www.celt.iastate.edu/events-registration/ Office of the Senior Vice President and Provost offers faculty development for all faculty including new faculty, term faculty, tenure-eligible faculty (Tenure-track and tenured) and academic leaders. More information can be found at: https://www.provost.iastate.edu/faculty-success/development Consider becoming a member of the American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) to leverage trainings available through the society. Other Services Produce the annual College research expenditure report for ASEE and the accompanying dashboard. Provide non-routine research enhancement services such as conducting seminars, workshops, travel and conference/event coordination Facilitate faculty research team building activities ERI Links Engineering Research Institute ERI Funding Opportunities Blog ERI Personnel Research Development Support Programs Resources for Investigators Infrastructure for Research NSF NEW Biosketch and Current & Pending Formats University Resources Office of the Vice President for Research Office of Sponsored Program Administration Sponsored Programs Accounting Office Office of Intellectual Property and Technology Transfer Office of Research Integrity Office of Responsible Research Grants Hub Give Apply Now CoE A-Z Index Website Feedback Form Contact Information Arun Somani Associate Dean for Research arun@iastate.edu Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Snapchat Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...