COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert CSD Academic Office Information The CSD academic office is operating with staggered staff hours and partly remote at this time. You may reach the office via email (preferred) at csd@wichita.edu or may also leave a voicemail at 316-978-3240. Communication Sciences and Disorders Section Menu Department Home About the Department Undergraduate Graduate Financial Support Research Labs Signed Language WSUSSLHA Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic College of Health Professions Home Faculty / Staff Directory Contact Us Our Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic is open to the public and accepting new patients!Learn about our services Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Labs Communication Sciences and Disorders The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders (CSD) at Wichita State University engages students in practical hands-on experiences through our campus clinic and partner facilities. Clinical graduate programs prepare students for careers as speech-language pathologists and audiologists who provide evaluation and treatment of speech, language and hearing disorders in hospital, school and private practice settings and serve clients of every age. Our Ph.D. program is individualized to prepare scholars for careers in research, teaching and advanced clinical practice. WSU offers an exceptional academic and clinical education for CSD students with nationally ranked programs that are highly regarded by employers. If you want a rewarding career helping others, this is the place for you. Contact us via email at: csd@wichita.edu or call 316-978-3240. Learn more about CSD at Wichita State Social Media Links / News CSD Facebook CHP Facebook SLH Clinic Facebook WSU NEWS CSD In the News High-tech simulation manikins revolutionize audiology education The Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders has received a gift to create the Audiology Simulation Lab at Wichita State. The lab contains five state-of-the-art Canadian Audiology simulator for Research and Learning (CARL) manikins and auxiliary equipment — four adult heads and one infant head. Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic and Engineering collaborate to improve child’s communication Students and faculty at the Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic have teamed up with the College of Engineering to help a 9-year-old child communicate more effectively. The group developed and printed 3D objects that represent common items to help the child communicate. SLP Ranked #4 in Best Jobs in Health Care The US News and World Report recently ranked Speech-Language Pathologist as #4 in their annual list of Best Health Care Jobs. It is also ranked #7 in The 100 Best Jobs list. Read more at: https://money.usnews.com/careers/best-jobs/speech-language-pathologist https://money.usnews.com/careers/best-jobs/rankings/the-100-best-jobs About the Professions Bachelor of Arts Master of Arts Doctor of Audiology Doctor of Philosophy Signed Language Student Outcome Data Job Opportunities for Graduates WSUSSLHA Alumni Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©