Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » Intramural Sports Rules » 5-on-5 Basketball Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules 5-on-5 Basketball Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball 5-on-5 Basketball Rules Any intramural policies not mentioned here may be found in the Intramural Handbook. Unless specifically mentioned below, 5-on-5 basketball play is governed by NFHS basketball rules. By participating in Intramural Sports, the participant agrees to abide by all Intramural rules and policies. 1. Assumption of Risk right arrow down arrow You may suffer physical and/or mental injury from participating in Intramural Sports. There are certain risks of injury that are inherent to participation in sports and recreational activities. These types of injuries may be minor or serious and may result from the actions or inactions of themselves or others. By choosing to participate in Intramural Sports, you do so at your own risk. It is understood that most activities require a certain level of fitness and health, and that each person has a different capacity for participating in these activities. Participants of Intramural Sports are highly encouraged to have a physical examination and procure health insurance prior to play. UC Campus Recreation does not provide health insurance. Intramural Supervisors undergo concussion recognition training. In the instance a participant is exhibiting any signs or symptoms of a concussion as a result of a head injury sustained during intramural play, he or she will be removed from the activity. This individual must provide a physician’s note clearing the individual to play by a specific date. This note may be e-mailed to intramural@uc.edu or faxed to 513-556-0601. 2. Sportsmanship right arrow down arrow In order to qualify for playoffs, teams must obtain a 3.0 or higher sportsmanship average during the regular season. Sportmanship Rating Score Player & Team Behavior Penalty 4.0 Always respectful to officials and opposing team. No complaining or arguing. No unsportsmanlike penalties. 3.0 Usually respectful to officials and opposing team. Minimal arguing or complaining about officials. Maximum one (1) unsportsmanlike penalty. 2.0 Moderately disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Moderate arguing or complaints about officials. Multiple unsportsmanlike penalties OR Maximum one (1) ejected player 1.0 Frequently disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Frequent arguing or complaints about officials. Any contact or provocation of officials. Multiple ejected players or one (1) player involved in a fight. 0.0 Player(s) out of control. Excessively disrespectful to officials and/or opposing team. Excessive arguing or complaints about officials.* Multiple players involved in a fight. Destruction or abuse of property. * A team that receives a "0" rating will be suspended from competition until its captain meets with the Assistant Director or Coordinator of Intramural Sports. The team may be removed from competition. 3. Eligibility right arrow down arrow 3.1 To be eligible for intramural sports, each player must possess an active membership to the University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center AND be a current University of Cincinnati student (enrolled in at least one (1) credit hour), faculty, or staff member. 3.2 Participants may participate on one (1) coed and one (1) non-coed team per sport, per season. Substituting for another team in the same league is prohibited. 3.3 Varsity and Club Sport Rules 3.3.1 Competitive club sport players and former varsity athletes may not participate on an intramural B (recreational) league team in the same or a similar sport as their club/varsity sport. 3.3.2 For sports with five (5) or more players on the playing field at one time, a team is limited to two (2) competitive club sport participants (in the same or similar sport) on its’ roster. 3.3.3 For sports with four (4) or less players on the playing field at one time, a team is limited to one (1) competitive club sport participant (in the same or similar sport) on its’ roster. 3.3.4 Current varsity athletes are not allowed to play on an intramural team of the same or a similar sport as their varsity sport. 3.3.5 Former varsity athletes must sit out 365 days from last appearing on a varsity roster to be eligible to play in the same or similar sport as their varsity sport. Teams are allowed one (1) former varsity athlete (in the same or similar sport) per roster. 4. Equipment right arrow down arrow 4.1 Jewelry is prohibited across all intramural sports. This includes, but is not limited to, piercings, necklaces, rings, wrist fitness trackers, watches, and bracelets. 4.2 Medical jewelry is allowed but must be taped down. 4.3 Billed hats are prohibited in all sports except softball. 4.4 Athletic clothing and footwear is required. Prohibited items include, but is not limited to: jeans, cargo pants/shorts, skirts, loafers, open-toed shoes, and boots. Indoor sports require non-marking footwear. For outdoor field sports, detachable or metal cleats are prohibited. 4.5 Any casts, braces, or other protective equipment must be padded and secure. 4.6 Basketball: Mouth guards are highly recommended, but not provided. Jerseys are provided for rent, however teams may bring their ownjerseys if they wish. All jerseys must be numbered with acceptable numbers containing digits 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. For example: jersey numbers 4, 23, and 55 are acceptable but 7, 49, and 91 are unacceptable. 5. Teams, Players, & Rosters right arrow down arrow 5.1 A team may have to 20 players on its’ roster. 5.2 A team plays with five (5) players on the court. Coed teams with five (5) players on the court must have three (3) players of one gender and two (2) players of the other gender on the court at all times. 5.3 A team may being play with a minimum of four (4) players. A fifth player may be added until the start of the second half. Coed teams with four (4) players on the court must have two (2) players of each gender on the court at all times. 5.4 Teams may continue with three (3) players if an injury or ejection occurs. Coed teams with three (3) players on the court must have two (2) players of one gender and one (1) player of the other gender on the court at all times. 5.5 If at any time a team is only able to field two (2) players or less, the team will forfeit. 6. Substitutions right arrow down arrow 6.1 Players wishing to substitute must report to the score table, not obstruct the view of the scorekeeper, and may enter when the official on the court beckons them. 6.2 Entering the playing area prior to being beckoned may result in a technical foul and/or ejection. 7. Game Timing & Timeouts right arrow down arrow 7.1 Game time is the designated start time for each game. Teams have nine (9) minutes after the scheduled start time to be checked in and ready for play. 7.1.1 Should a team arrive 10 or more minutes after the scheduled game time, the game will be declared a forfeit. 7.1.2 Should a team arrive late: 7.1.2.1 The opposing team will start with possession. 7.1.2.2 The opposing team may elect to receive two points for each minute that the team was late. 7.1.2.3 The length of the first half will be shortened by the number of minutes that the team was late. 7.2 Each gamewill consist of two (2) 20-minute halves. 7.3 Except for the last two (2) minutes of the second half, the clock will run continuously except for team timeouts, official timeouts, and injuries. 7.4 In the last two (2) minutes of the second half, the clock will stop for all whistles, team timeouts, official timeouts, and injuries. 7.5 Each team will receive four (4) timeouts per game –two (2) 30-second timeouts and two (2) 60-second timeouts. 7.6 Only the designated coach on the bench or a player in possession of the ball may call a timeout. 8. Overtime right arrow down arrow 8.1 There shall be no overtime during the regular season. 8.2 If a game is tied at the end of regulation during playoffs, a three (3) minute overtime period will be played. The clock will stop for all whistles, team timeouts, official timeouts, and injuries. Each team will be given one (1) timeout during this overtime period. Timeouts donot carry over from the second half. 8.3 If a game is tied at the end of the first overtime, one (1) minute overtimes will be played until a winner is determined. There will be no timeouts during these overtime periods. 9. Scoring right arrow down arrow 9.1 Field goals made inside or on the arc will be worth two (2) points and field goals made outside the arc will be worth three (3) points. 9.2 Each foul shot will be worth one (1) point. 9.3 Mercy Rule: 9.3.1 A game will be considered final if a team leads by 20 or more points any time in the last two (2) minutes of the second half. 9.3.2 A team down by 30 points or more any time in the last five (5) minutes of the second half may elect to end the game without penalty. 10. Fouls & Free Throws right arrow down arrow 10.1 Dunking is permitted in the game, however hanging on the rim unnecessarily during may result in a technical foul and/or ejection. 10.1.1 Dunking or hanging on the rim is PROHIBITED outside of game play (i.e. warm-ups, timeouts, halftime, after the game, etc.). Offenders will receive a technical foul and/or ejection. 10.2 A bonus free throw is the second free throw awarded for a common foul (except a player-control or team-control foul) as follows: 10.2.1 Beginning with a team’s seventh foul in each half and for the eight and ninth foul, the bonus is awarded only if the first free throw is successful. 10.2.2 Beginning with a team’s tenth foul in each half, two free throws are awarded whether or not the first free throw is successful. 10.2.3 Personal and technical fouls will be combined towards a team’s foul total. 10.3 A player will foul out of the game upon committing five (5) fouls. Personal and technical fouls will be combined towards a player’s foul total. 10.4 A team will forfeit the game upon committing three (3) technical fouls for unsportsmanlike conduct. These include (but are not limited to) fighting, destruction of property, taunting, abusive language/behavior towards staff, officials, players, fans, and intentional delay of game.A game may also be ended by an official or supervisor 10.5 Any player receiving two (2) unsportsmanlike technical fouls will be ejected from the game. A player may also be ejected without warning by any official or supervisor. 10.6 All technical fouls will result in the non-offending team receiving two (2) free throws and possession. 10.7 During a free throw for a non-flagrant personal foul, each of the lane spaces adjacent to the end line shall be occupied by an opposing player. 10.8 A teammate of the free thrower is entitled to the next adjacent lane space on each side and to each alternate position along each lane line. 10.9 A maximum of three (3) lane spaces on each side can be occupied. More than one (1) player may not occupy any part of a designatedlane space. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top