Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information Lumps and Bumps in Kids: When to Worry   February 25, 2022 Share this page Share on Facebook Tweet Share on Linkedin Share by email Wakenda Tyler Lumps and bumps can appear anywhere on a child’s body, and as parents know, they do. Most bumps are benign, but some are not. When does a lump, bump, or other protrusion merit a trip to the doctor? “The first thing to ask yourself is: Can I connect the lump to a specific instance?” says Wakenda K. Tyler, MD, chief of orthopedic oncology at Columbia University's Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons, noting children can get bumps any number of ways in an ordinary day. If you can identify the accident or activity source, and there are no broken bones, you’re likely good to treat at home. Tyler recalls a worried mom and her son, who had a bump on his shin for about five days. He was not having any pain, so no X-ray was necessary (to rule out a fracture). When asked about any falls, the child reported he had banged his shin on an open dresser drawer a day before his mom noticed the bump. “We recommended waiting another week to see if the bump resolved,” says Tyler, “and indeed it did. If it had not resolved, the next step would be imaging.” When not to worry   Child feels no pain, or pain is decreasing over one to two weeks. The lump is less than 2 cm, about the size of a quarter, and has not gotten bigger.   No bones are broken.   What to do: Stay home. Ice and rest. When to worry  The lump is more than 2 cm, about the size of a quarter, or has gotten bigger.   Pain has not subsided after two weeks, with ice or rest. Pain is increasing. Child has a fever or has lost weight. Child is waking up at night from the pain.  Child is limping or favoring one side for more than three days without improvement. Child is unusually irritable and/or avoiding activities and sports they love.  What to do: Call your doctor.   Generally, says Tyler, the worrisome symptoms could be a sign of a growing mass of some kind. More often than not, it is a benign tumor that does not require treatment. In rarer cases, lumps can be a sign of cancer. Every year in the United States more than 2,000 children are diagnosed with bone and soft tissue sarcomas. Growing masses may need tests to rule out cancer. Bottom Line Most lumps and bumps in kids are not a big deal. Pay attention to the warning signs. If you have concerns, it’s best to get checked by your pediatrician to be safe. References Wakenda K. Tyler, MD, MPH, is chief of the Division of Orthopedic Oncology and vice chair of equity, diversity, and inclusion in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top