Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu University Testing Center Main Navigation Writing Proficiency Exam Chemistry Placement Exam Math Qualifying Exam Common Entrance, Placement, & Certification Exams Contact Us University Testing Center Welcome At Cal State Fullerton, students and members of the community can take advantage of a wide range of testing programs and related services to support their educational, career and personal goals. The University Testing Center provides information and registration materials, and serves as a site for institutional testing programs that are required for placement in classes. Testing Center staff members are available to provide information regarding the university's testing requirements and assist with: Interpreting university testing policies Providing test registration materials Arranging special accommodations Verifying test scores for the Examination in Writing Proficiency (EWP). The University Testing Center staff members, including room supervisors and proctors who administer the Saturday testing programs, are committed to providing an environment where all examinees have the opportunity to succeed and to perform to the best of their ability regardless of age, ethnicity, culture, academic experience, economic circumstances or disability. This site is maintained by University Testing Center. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact testingcenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.