Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Events Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Schedule a Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Twitter Follow Us YouTube Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Anthropology Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Anthropology Majors Health and Society Major Minors Current and Upcoming Courses Distinction Program Funding and Awards Field School Anthropology Club Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Learn More Graduate School Resources Apply Prospective Graduate Student Letter M.A. Degree in Medical Anthropology Ph.D. in Anthropology Upcoming Courses Language Requirement Financial Support, Fellowships, Grants, and Awards Recent Graduates Redbook Handbook Career Services People Research Research Experts Taos Research Clusters Labs and Collections Archaeology Research Collections About About Contact Us Calendar of Events Lectures Alumni Connection Give ☰ SMU Department of Anthropology Academics Departments Anthropology Faculty Directory Majors/Minors Graduate Programs Alumni Connection Welcome Anthropology is the study of what it means to be human. The discipline is at the crossroads of science and humanities. Our faculty advance intellectual frontiers, both ancient and modern, through groundbreaking interdisciplinary research, innovative teaching, and community outreach, aimed at bringing insight and understanding to issues of global health and development, migration and borderland communities, and human impacts on and responses to climate change. Anthropology has long been one of the strongest programs at SMU. We help students build their cultural competency, critical thinking, and global skill sets to best prepare them for life after graduation. Congratulations 2021 Graduates! Read More Archaeological Research Collection Read More Upcoming Courses Read More Contact the Department of Anthropology Heroy Hall P.O. Box 750336 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0336 214-768-2684 Want to be an anthropology major? News More news Anthropology Why Study Here? Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs People Research About Give Apply Visit Academics Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Minors and Programs Research Centers and Institutes Connect Administrative Directory Department Directory Alumni Make a Gift Dedman College of Humanities & Sciences P.O. Box 750235 | Dallas, Texas | 75275-0233 214-768-2440 © Southern Methodist University Legal Disclosures facebook twitter youtube