Skip to main content More: Admissions Alumni & Support Career Services Current Students Library + See all - Hide Search Main navigation About About Overall info Dean @ Marshall Leadership Leadership Overall info Dean’s Cabinet Board of Councilors Board of Leaders Corporate Advisory Board Marshall Volunteer Leadership Council Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Marshall History Commencement Support Marshall Support Marshall Overall info Office of External Relations Dean’s Report Contact Us Contact Us Overall info Employee Emergency Marshall Online Learning Open Expression Statement Strategic Plan Programs Programs No matter your timetable or goals, Marshall has a program that works for you. Programs Overview Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Our undergraduate programs in business and accounting rank among the nation’s best. Undergraduate Programs Overview A Degree of Difference Academics Business Emphases Career Focus Global Opportunities Student Life Undergraduate Admissions MBA Programs MBA Programs USC Marshall's top-ranked MBA programs attract students from across the globe for a hands-on graduate business education that translates to professional success. MBA Programs Overview Full Time MBA Executive MBA Program Part Time MBA One-Year, Mid-Career IBEAR MBA Online MBA Specialized Masters Programs Specialized Masters Programs Master your destiny at Marshall. Specialized Masters Programs Overview Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Entrepreneurship and Innovation Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Marketing Master of Science in Social Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Global Supply Chain Management Master of Business for Veterans Master of Management Studies Master of Science in Business Administration Master of Food Industry Leadership Accounting Masters Programs Accounting Masters Programs Take your accounting career to the next level. Accounting Masters Programs Overview Master of Accounting Master of Accounting with Emphasis in Data and Analytics Master of Business Taxation Master of Business Taxation for Working Professionals Online Degree Programs Online Degree Programs Marshall offers a 24/7 connection to your future. Online Degree Programs Overview Master of Business Taxation for Working Professionals Master of Science of Global Supply Chain Management USC Marshall Online MBA (OMBA) PhD Program Certificate Programs Certificate Programs Marshall brings you certified success. Certificate Programs Overview Graduate Certificate in Business Analytics Graduate Certificate in Financial Analysis and Valuation Graduate Certificate in Management Studies Graduate Certificate in Marketing Graduate Certificate in Optimization and Supply Chain Management Graduate Certificate in Strategy and Management Consulting Graduate Certificate in Sustainability and Business Graduate Certificate in Technology Commercialization Food Industry Management Program Graduate Certificate in Library and Information Management – Online With Your Shield Executive Education Programs Graduate Programs Experiential Learning Center Departments Departments At Marshall, we offer depth of knowledge and breadth of expertise. Departments Overview Data Sciences and Operations Finance and Business Economics Leventhal School of Accounting Business Communication Management and Organization Marketing Lloyd Greif Center for Entrepreneurial Studies Faculty & Research Faculty & Research USC Marshall faculty are award-winning scholars who publish cutting-edge research. Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Directory Faculty Resources Faculty Positions Recent Publications Research Fair Centers of Excellence Centers of Excellence Centers Overview Brittingham Social Enterprise Lab Center for Effective Organizations The Global Branding Center Center for Global Innovation The Randall R. Kendrick Global Supply Chain Institute Center for Investment Studies Neely Center for Ethical Leadership and Decision Making Ph.D. Students Institute for Outlier Research in Business Research@USCMarshall USC Marshall Seminar Calendar Labs and Institutes Labs and Institutes Overall info Marshall Behavioral Research Lab USC Marshall China Research Group Tommy Talks Critical Thinking Initiative Funding and Managing your Research USC Initiative on Digital Competition News & Events News & Events Across business disciplines, Marshall makes the news. News & Events Overview Events News Blogs Podcasts Business in the News at USC Marshall Webinar Series Second navigation Directory More: Admissions Alumni & Support Career Services Current Students Library Toto Wolff, the most successful team principal in Formula One history, joined Dean Garrett for a wide-ranging conversation on leadership, crisis management, and the 2022 season. . Read More On Friday, May 13 - Marshall and Leventhal graduates celebrated in the first in-person ceremony since 2019. Read the Dean's Report "As we begin the next hundred years at USC Marshall, our focus remains squarely on producing leaders with the skills, mindset, and commitment to turn ideas into outcomes and create a better future." COVID-19: USC | Marshall Bottom line, a USC Marshall School of Business education will be one of the best investments of your life. Click here to look at some numbers 100 YEARS OF HISTORY The oldest accredited business school in Southern California 90K USC Marshall alumni Your professional network and growing 94% Full-time MBAs with jobs upon graduation (hint: We don’t count those who start their own companies!) 85 Entrepreneurship classes taught each year 1.4K USC Marshall graduate and undergraduate students who travel abroad as part of their coursework each year 100+ Countries worldwide in which USC Marshall alumni are changing the shape of business Recent News May 26, 2022 New appointments feature women and professors from under-represented groups USC Marshall’s Faculty Hiring Initiative is advancing diversity goals laid out in 2021 Read More May 24, 2022 Investing in Good All six Social Venture Coaching Competition finalists receive funding in 2022 Read More May 18, 2022 Class of 2022 Spotlights Five new Marshall graduates share the most meaningful moments in their USC journeys Read More May 13, 2022 USC Marshall Commencement 2022 Marshall and Leventhal graduates celebrate in the first on-campus commencement ceremony since 2019 Read More Upcoming Events More 03 Jun More Offsite: USC Marshall Alumni OC: Networking Lunch - Irvine Orange County, CA 11:45 am — 01:15 pm More 10 Jun More Online: USC Marshall Alumni OC: Virtual Networking Lunch Online 11:45 am — 01:00 pm Join the Conversation USC Marshall A new report from World Bank and S&P Global Market Intelligence ranks So Cal ports last in efficiency, @TheNickVyas… USC Marshall 3 days ago Maisie Jones 3 days ago B USC Marshall Professor @AdlaiWertman founded @USC_BSEL which serves as the hub for social e USC Marshall 5 days ago USC Marshall Anthony Sottile, a recent #graduate, shares the life changing experiences he values during his time at Marshall and… USC Marshall 6 days ago USC Marshall @alec_levenson, Senior Research Scientist at @CEOusc in an interview w/ USC Marshall 6 days ago USC Marshall The Class of 2022 shared with us what comes next for them and what they learned during their time at Marshall. USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @Marghe_PAGANI:Discussing today a paper on the impact of Artificial Intelligence on Human Creativity at the second annual Artifici… h USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:Beautiful view of #dtla from the ⁦ USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall Finance professor Lawrence Harris urges consumers to use caution if using new financial apps, many of which aren’t… twitt USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @PresidentFolt:I had a great time talking with @USCMarshall Professor P USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @westcoastctip:Join the Lloyd Greif Center for Entrepreneurial Studies on May 19th! USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @USCLondonOffice:We were delighted to welcome @garrett_geoff and USC Marshall 1 week ago Julia Castaneda 1 week ago B USC Marshall RT @socofsaleswomen:Fun fact: Our two Co-Founders Jessica Wiederhorn and Cindy Lien Truong graduated this weekend from USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall RT @IAMFMII:I promised my Mom I would change our family trajectory and build a better life for us. USC Marshall 1 week ago USC Marshall Congrats to the class of 2022! 🥳 pic.twitter.com/iuNzgAzDkF USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall @kaluwi delivers words of wisdom to graduating students in his very stylish lime green Nikes. USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @BrandonZGunning:Let’s get the show going @garrett_geoff USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Trinity describes this day as the first blank page in this next life chapter for graduating Marshall students. USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Trinity Moore, the student speaker for the Class of 2022 addresses fellow students and speaks on her “unmatched” M… twit USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @USC:The joyous culmination of so much. USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Dean @garrett_geoff congratulates the graduates, “The world needs you more than ever. USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:Backstage before ⁦@USCMarshall⁩ ⁦ USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:Full house for ⁦@USCMarshall⁩ USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:What a sight - gorgeous LA day; wonderful ⁦@USC⁩ commencement; i USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Parents and students are making their way into the Galen Center where in just a few moments the ceremony will begin. USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @USC:TODAY IS THE DAY! Congrats to all Trojans walking the stage at today's commencement ceremonies! USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall It’s officially time for USC Marshall’s 2022 commencement ceremony! USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Congrats to the Class of 2022 Marshall graduates! 🥳✌️ pic.twitter.com/1tOy1NUVZq USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Congrats to the Class of 2022 🥳✌️ Watch the live stream of the Marshall and Leventhal commencement ceremonies ⤵️… twitte USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @USC:A beautiful day for our Class of 2022! USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @USCAlumni:Our USC Half Century Trojans, #USCAlumni for over USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @USC:Congrats, Trojans! USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:Commencement about to start at ⁦@USC⁩ for the USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall Toto Wolff is the most successful team principal in grand prix history, leading Mercedes to the double world champi… twit USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall RT @garrett_geoff:My first in person ⁦@USCMarshall⁩ graduation - 11 wonder USC Marshall 2 weeks ago USC Marshall "It takes a village to raise a professor.” Marshall PhD candidate Maurice Murphy will officially become “Dr.” Mur… twit USC Marshall 2 weeks ago Kara Whitesell 2 weeks ago B 2 weeks ago B 2 weeks ago B USC Marshall School of Business: 3670 Trousdale Pkwy, Los Angeles, CA 90089, United States Map Full Directory Footer navigation About Alumni Association For Journalists Marshall in the News Support Marshall USC IT Help Subscribe to Marshall Monthly MyMarshall Intranet Notice of Non-discrimination Visit Us On Social Media Twitter Profile Facebook Profile LinkedIn Profile Instagram Profile We use cookies and similar technologies to understand our visitors experiences. By continuing to use this website, you agree to this condition of use. For further information please see the privacy policy (link on the right). University of Southern California Marshall School of Business | Copyright 2001 - 2022 Footer Privacy Policy