Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Site Policies Accreditation Texas A&M University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges to award degrees at the bachelors’, masters’, doctoral and professional levels. Contact the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097 or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Texas A&M University. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Agricultural Systems Management curriculum is recognized by the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers (ASABE). Agricultural Science is accredited by the State Board of Educator Certification and the Texas Education Agency. Biological and Agricultural Engineering is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). The undergraduate program in Biochemistry is accredited by the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (ASBMB). Didactic Program in Dietetics is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (ACEND). The Texas A&M Dietetic Internship Program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (ACEND). Forestry curriculum is accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF). Food Science and Technology curriculum is approved by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT). Forensics and Investigative Sciences program is accredited by the Forensic Science Education Programs Accreditation Commission (FEPAC). Rangeland Ecology and Management curriculum is accredited by the Society for Range Management (SRM). College of Architecture Architecture is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB). Construction Science curriculum is accredited by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE). Landscape Architecture curriculum is accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB). The Master’s curricular in Urban and Regional Planning is accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB). Mays Business School The baccalaureate and master’s curricula in Mays Business School are accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). College of Dentistry Dentistry degree program is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA). College of Education and Human Development Programs in professional education at Texas A&M University are approved and fully accredited by the State Board of Educator Certification and the Texas Education Agency. Counseling Psychology and School Psychology are accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA). Athletic Training is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CaATe). College of Engineering Undergraduate programs in Aerospace, Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Industrial, Mechanical, Nuclear, Ocean, Petroleum, and Radiological Health Engineering are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Undergraduate programs in Electronic Systems Engineering Technology, Manufacturing and Mechanical Engineering Technology, Manufacturing Engineering Technology, and Telecommunications Engineering Technology are accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET. The undergraduate program in Computer Science Program is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET. Bush School of Government and Public Service The Master of Public Service and Administration degree in the Bush School of Government and Public Service is accredited by the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA) The School of Law The School of Law is accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA). College of Liberal Arts Clinical Psychology is accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA). College of Medicine Medical Education degree program is accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). Post Graduate Training for Physicians in Institution, Family Medicine, Sports Medicine, and Psychiatry is accredited by the American Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). College of Nursing The baccalaureate and master’s degree programs in Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacology The PharmD curriculum in the Irma Lerma Rangel College of Pharmacy is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE). School of Public Health Public Health degree program is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). The Master of Health Administration is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME). College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Veterinary Medicine degree program is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA). Texas A&M University at Galveston The undergraduate programs in Offshore and Coastal Systems Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. The undergraduate program in Marine Engineering Technology is accredited by the Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission of ABET. Texas A&M University at Qatar Undergraduate programs in Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical, and Petroleum are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top