Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Students > Senior Runs Marathon for Campus School Channels Close Home Chronicle Art & Culture Athletics & Recreation Campus & Community Humanities Faith & Religion Science, Tech & Health Nation, World & Society Economics BC Events Let there be light Veterans Remembrance Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights 2020 Pops Off the Heights wins CASE gold award Pops hits a high note Archives BC News Archive Agora Portal Search News Archive A marathon effort BC senior Sarah Pilgrim runs the Boston Marathon to raise funds for the Campus School Campus & Community / Students - Published on April 15, 2018 Sarah Pilgrim ’18, a pre-med student majoring in biochemistry with a minor in inclusive education, will run in the Boston Marathon on April 16 to raise funds for the Campus School at Boston College. Located in Campion Hall, the Campus School provides a personalized approach to special education for children ages 3–21 with multiple disabilities. As the co-president of the Campus School Volunteers, Pilgrim is passionate about the school and its students. “The students are the most hard-working individuals that I know and inspiring in everything that they do,” said Pilgrim, a native of Naperville, Ill. With them in mind, she said, “running a marathon didn’t seem like such a hard feat.” Play WATCH: Sarah Pilgrim on running for the Campus School. Video by Julia Hopkins '19 & John Walsh, University Communications Pilgrim’s love of running began in middle school, where she participated in track and cross country. “I’ve always felt comfort and solace in running on my own and a sense of belonging when running in groups," she said. "I’m a huge proponent of running for yourself and not a time or place.” She has been training for the marathon since learning of her entry in late January, not long after completing a half-marathon in late November. Throughout her preparation, she has been supported by fellow runners at BC who communicate through a group message, sharing advice and inspiration. “Ever since I decided to go to school at BC, I wanted to run the Boston Marathon," said Pilgrim. "I didn’t know if it would be possible as a student, as I was approaching my final year here, but when the opportunity presented itself to not only run in Boston but for the Campus School that has come to mean so much to me, I couldn’t turn it down. “It wasn’t hard to be inspired by the great magnitude of runners in Boston, my fellow classmates at BC, and – most importantly – the students at the Campus School, to get out there and run.” To support Pilgrim’s marathon effort, visit her Campus School fundraiser website. –Christine Balquist | University Communications Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College