CookieSettings Are you OK with cookies? This website uses cookies. For more information, review our Privacy & Legal Notice . Questions? Please email privacy@gatech.edu. Accept Close Choose which cookies we use Analytics cookies Off On We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it based on user needs. We do not allow Google Analytics to use or share the data about how you use this site. See our analytics cookies Analytics cookies Name Purpose Expires _ga These help us count how many people visit on www.gtf.gatech.edu by tracking if you’ve visited before 2 years _gid These help us count how many people visit on www.gtf.gatech.edu by tracking if you’ve visited before 24 hours _gat These help us to manage how we collect analytics when we have lots of visitors on the site at one time 10 minutes Essential cookies Always on These cookies will always need to be on because they make our site work. See our functional cookies All users Name Purpose Expires wordpress_test_cookie This is used to test whether the browser accepts cookies When you close your browser PHPSESSID This is used to link your device to the information sent to the server from your browser. It is typically used to avoid you having to retype information when moving from one page to another. When you close your browser ccfw_wp_plugin.banner.hidden Lets us know you have chosen which cookies are used so we can stop the cookie banner appearing when you return to the site. 1 year ccfw_wp_plugin.ga.accept Lets us know you have accepted Google Analytics cookies so we can stop them loading when you return to the site. 1 year Logged in users Name Purpose Expires wordpress_[hash] This authenticates you when you log in to the admin area When you close your browser wordpress_logged_in This shows the site that you’re logged in and who you are so you can access the functions you need When you close your browser wordpress_sec If you are logged in as a site admin, this stores your authentication details. When you close your browser wp-settings-{time}-[UID] The number on the end [UID] is your individual user ID from the users database. 1 year Third-party cookies We have no control over cookies set by third parties. You can turn them off, but not through us. In addition, if you share a link to a page, the service you share it on (for example, Facebook) may set a cookie. See third party cookies YouTube YouTube videos play in privacy-enhanced mode. This mode may set third-party cookies on your computer when you click on the YouTube video player. These cookies will not be personally identifiable. Read the YouTube Privacy Policy Vimeo Vimeo videos set third-party cookies to enable the video to play and collect analytics data. These cookies do not track individuals. Read the Vimeo Cookie Policy Twitter Twitter widgets may add cookies to help analyse usage and remember your session if you are also logged in to your Twitter account. Read the Twitter Privacy Policy Save cookie preferences Skip to Content Search Georgia Tech Foundation Website Access mobile menu About Board of Trustees Work With Us Stories Our Impact Resources Financial Statements Annual Reports Governance Data Privacy Policy Contact Search Give to Tech COVID-19 UPDATE The Georgia Tech Foundation staff, in accordance with CDC mitigation strategies and state and local ordinances, are working a staggered work schedule or teleworking until further notice. Our full staff is still working to support you during this time. The physical office for the Georgia Tech Foundation, located at 760 Spring Street NW, Suite 400, Atlanta, GA 30308, is open with staggered staff schedules and is accessible for drop-offs or in-person mail delivery Monday- Friday. If you need immediate assistance, please email info@gtf.gatech.edu Ways to give back: The Division of Student Life, the Alumni Association, and the Office of Development are partnering to collect and distribute emergency funding to support students in need. GT Development Giving Website GT Alumni Website #SwarmStrenGTh For the latest updates on the innovative ways the Georgia Tech community is drawing on its expertise to aid in the fight against pandemic, please visit Responding to COVID-19. For the latest updates on the campus response, please visit health.gatech.edu/coronavirus. Give to Tech » What's New » Coda: Rising Innovation Read more Led by Penny and Roe Stamps – Many Tech Faithful Support Named Scholarships Read more Scholarship for Children of Military and First Responders Established Read more Honorary Alumni Honored Read more Continuing the Conversation – Rosa Parks Statue on GT Campus Read more John Portman Remembered Read more QUARTERLY STORY Coda: Rising Innovation Tech Square is abuzz, and not just with the promise of tomorrow’s technical innovators. There’s a new beacon along the Atlanta skyline, and without question, the crown jewel in Midtown’s emerging high-tech corridor is the 21-story Coda building. Read More » View All Stories » GTF by the Numbers: The Impact of Your Donations Your generous donations to the Georgia Tech Foundation enrich lives at Georgia Tech, enabling us to invest in students, faculty, programs, and facilities. It is the mission of the Georgia Tech Foundation to support the academic excellence of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Read More » 4,115 Students received $29,748,371 from student support funds managed by GTF. STUDENTS 235 The Georgia Tech Foundation is the funding source for 235 Chairs or Professorships. FACULTY $127M of donated funds have been applied towards 14 capital facility projects. FACILITIES 4,573 GTF manages funds for 4,573 active programs. PROGRAMS Previous Slide Next Slide WHO WE ARE About Georgia Tech Foundation Learn More WHY WE DO IT Our Impact at Georgia Tech Learn More GTF RESOURCES Financial Statements & Reports Learn More GIVE TO TECH BOARD MEMBER PORTAL Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. 760 Spring Street, Suite 400 Atlanta, GA 30308 404-894-5072 info@gtf.gatech.edu © Georgia Institute of Technology Georgia Tech Links Georgia Tech Links Georgia Tech Homepage Campus Map Directory Offices Institute Employment Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Legal Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Close