Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law About Prelaw Diversity Ranking Memphis Law Ranked in TOP 20 for African American Students by preLaw Magazine The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law has been ranked the 19th best law school nationally for African American students in the latest issue of preLaw magazine. Memphis Law was also included among the top schools on the magazine's annual "Diversity Honor Roll" for 2022. “Memphis Law offers one of the oldest and most successful pre-admission programs for diverse applicants in the nation,” said Dean Katharine Schaffzin. “We consistently enroll 1L classes with an extremely high percentage of diverse students, often 30% or more of the class. Memphis Law has actively sought to improve the climate within the law school, while growing the number of student support resources and pipeline programs available to prepare potential diverse law school applicants." Memphis Law’s diversity efforts are wide-ranging and impactful. PreLaw Magazine examined several of the law school's access and pipelining initiatives in their ranking. The annual Diversity & Pre-Law Week is one of the law school’s most comprehensive diversity & inclusion recruitment events and devotes programming to highlight diverse student experiences and organizations while providing valuable information about the law school admissions process. This year’s event featured American Civil Liberties Union President Deborah Archer as the keynote speaker. The law school also proudly offers the Tennessee Institute for Pre-Law (TIP) program, which is a unique admissions-by-performance program for Tennessee and border county residents that show potential for law school academic success and bring diversity to the entering class. Another successful diversity initiative is the Memphis Professional Development Program (MPDP), which supports diverse and first-generation Memphis Law students by providing professional development opportunities that maximize potential in law school and beyond. Partnering with the Law School Admissions Council (LSAC), Memphis Law also offers our successful pipeline program in the Prelaw Undergrad Scholars (PLUS) Program for currently enrolled college freshmen and sophomores from diverse or underrepresented backgrounds. This summer program offers a first-hand introduction to the legal field and allows students to learn if a legal career is right for them, lets them network with practicing attorneys, develop confidence and skills needed to succeed in law school and the application process, learn about legal brief writing, appellate advocacy, and have the opportunity to argue a legal brief in a moot court competition. “I anticipate our ranking by preLaw Magazine will continue to improve as we grow our investment in staff, programs and scholarships supporting diverse students at Memphis Law,” said Dean Schaffzin. Other recent Diversity & Inclusion-related accomplishments for Memphis Law include being included in the 2021 Best Law Schools for African Americans rankings by preLaw Magazine; being ranked in the Top 25 for law degrees awarded to African Americans; a past recipient of the Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Award; and past rankings as a Best Bargain Law School for Black Law Students and a Top 5 Best Regional Law School for Black Students from Lawyers of Color Magazine. Read more in preLaw here. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.