Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Undergraduate Core Curriculum Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Core Curriculum Through the Boston College Core Curriculum, undergraduates acquire a common intellectual foundation. They experience an intensive grounding in the defining works of the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences, introducing them to the forces that have shaped world history and culture. This focus broadens students’ intellectual horizons while shaping their characters and helping them learn how to discern well—preparing them for meaningful lives and rewarding careers. The Core’s approach—which includes classroom learning, labs, reflection opportunities, and experiences that extend beyond the classroom—operates at the nexus of knowledge, beliefs, and actions. It encourages students to integrate what they learn into their everyday lives, priming them to become engaged, effective global citizens. The Boston College Core Curriculum guides students on journeys of interdisciplinary inquiry to discover how to think about the world. Students explore new ways of knowing and being, helping them discern who they want to be, how they want to live—and why. Students completing the Boston College Core Curriculum will: Demonstrate the critical, mathematical, informational, analytic, expressive, and creative skills that are essential tools of the educated person well-prepared for a meaningful life and vocation. Understand the major ideas and methods of inquiry of the scholarly disciplines that comprise the university and be able to use those methods of inquiry as beginning practitioners to address complex contemporary problems. Be able to identify and articulate the strengths and limitations of the disciplines and the relationship of the disciplines to one another, and demonstrate an understanding of the breadth and diversity of human knowledge as well as its openness to integration in more comprehensive wholes. Be conversant with and able to discuss intelligently enduring questions and issues that are fundamental to human inquiry and that have shaped the traditions from which the university has emerged. Demonstrate the ability to apply more than one disciplinary perspective to the same enduring question or complex contemporary problem. Be familiar with the scholarly exploration of religious faith and understand how faith and reason are related in the search for truth. Demonstrate the ability to examine their values and experiences and integrate what they learn with the principles that guide their lives. Be prepared and disposed to use their talents and education as engaged global citizens and responsible leaders in service of the common good. Course Information & Schedule Open Positions For Students Core Requirements and courses Learn more Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Explore Complex Problems & Enduring Questions courses, open only to first year students. Learn more Frequently Asked Questions Student FAQ Does a course I've taken count for core credit? BC Courses during the academic year Non-BC Courses Study Abroad Summer Courses Courses at Woods College of Advancing Studies: No substitution Form needed For other courses, please contact the department Cultural Diversity Substitution Form Information on Advanced Placement and the Core Transfer of Credits Questions? Contact core@bc.edu Pod Leadership Program POD Leaders are juniors or seniors interested in being academic and social mentors for first-year students. POD Leaders attend course lectures and run a weekly discussion for 15 first-year students in the course. Learn More BC Voices Students and faculty discuss Boston College’s innovative interdisciplinary courses for freshmen. Learn More Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College