Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Crews School of Accountancy Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Programs Offered Bachelor of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting PhD in Accounting Graduate Certificate in Taxation Take Action Networking & Career Development Financial Assistance Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Crews School of Accountancy Programs PhD in Accounting PhD in Accounting Coordinator: Dr. Steve Lin | School of Accountancy (SOA) PhD Handbook The PhD is a research degree and is not a direct continuation of masters' level studies; that is, candidates learn to extend the frontiers of knowledge through original investigation and publication of findings. University faculty members also communicate knowledge through teaching and are expected to perform service to their institution, profession, and community. The relative weights of these assignments vary across institutions. Apply Now Specifically, the program intends to: provide candidates with an advanced level of knowledge in accounting and non-accounting topics as well as an emphasis in a chosen accounting specialization; prepare candidates to conduct independent research; enable candidates to communicate their research findings effectively; aid candidates in developing interpersonal and technical skills in teaching. The Accounting concentration emphasizes empirical research. This program is eclectic in nature with the premise that a candidate should possess: broad knowledge of past and current theoretical and methodological accounting issues; in-depth knowledge of a supporting area; and proficiency in statistics, economics, and quantitative methods of analysis. These skills will allow a candidate to conduct significant research and contribute to the advancement of knowledge in accounting. The PhD program is a learning process in which a candidate gains an understanding of and the ability to do scholarly research. This process is holistic as it involves clearly linked interactions among faculty and students in courses, in workshops, in teaching, and in individual research projects. The PhD faculty have earned a strong national reputation. Research by current faculty members scheduled to teach in the program has appeared in leading journals, including The Accounting Review; Journal of Accounting Research; Journal of Accounting and Economics; Contemporary Accounting Research; Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting; Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory; Accounting, Organizations & Society; Journal of Taxation; The Journal of Accounting Education; and Issues in Accounting Education. Choosing to enter a PhD program typically signals a substantial career change, and requires one's full professional attention. Accordingly, part-time students will not be accepted in the Accounting program. In order to become engaged in the research and teaching environment, students who are admitted normally will qualify for a graduate assistantship. Doctoral Program of Study For the PhD program in Accounting, 72 credit hours of coursework beyond a Bachelor's degree (63 credit hours beyond a Master's degree) must be completed including the following: Research Methods Core Courses (12 credits) ECON6810 – Quantitative Economics Analysis ECON8125 – Applied Statistics ECON8810 – Econometrics I Any seminar in methodology in Economics, Finance, BIT, Management, Mathematics, Computer Science, Sociology, etc. per advisor approval. For example: ECON8120 – Advanced Quantitative Economic Analysis MGMT 8921 – Sem in Management Research Methods MATH7647 – Nonparametric Statistics MATH8657 – Multivariate Statistical Methods Accounting Research Core (21 credits minimum) ACCT 8610 – Seminar Auditing Research ACCT 8621 – Agency and Fin Econ Theory Seminar ACCT 8710 – Accounting Research Seminar/Adv Capital Market ACCT 8720 – Acct Research Judgment/Decision ACCT 8731 – Seminar Management Accounting (renamed as Accounting Research Methodology from August 2021) ACCT 8740 – Seminar in Introduction to Accounting Research ACCT 8000 – Independent Research* Supporting area electives (12 credit minimum): any seminars in Economics, Finance, BIT, Management, Computer Science, Sociology, etc. per advisor approval). For example, FIR 8820 Theory/Practice Financial Management (required) FIR 7724 Micro-structure theory FIR 8710 Seminar in Investment Theory ECON 8310 Advanced Microeconomics I Dissertation Research (6 credits minimum; 18 credits maximum) BA 9000 Dissertation Apply Now For more information on our PhD in Accounting degree, contact our PhD advisor: Dr. Steve Lin 901.678.4785 swlin@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/23/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.