Skip to Main Content Brown University Comparative Literature Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture Search Comparative Literature Comparative Literature Comparative Literature Comparative literature is the study of cultural expression across linguistic boundaries. At Brown, the Department of Comparative Literature is distinct in its conviction that literary research and instruction must be international in character, and its undergraduate and graduate programs are considered among the finest in the country. Undergraduate students study a generous range of literary works – from Western cultures, both ancient and modern, to Chinese, Japanese, and Arabic – to develop a critical understanding of how cultures differ from one another. Undergraduate Program In the spirit of Brown's Open Curriculum, a concentration in Comparative Literature affords great academic freedom. Visit Page Open details for Undergraduate Program Graduate Program The graduate program in Comparative Literature at Brown offers a vigorous and comprehensive exploration of literature and culture. Visit Page Open details for Graduate Program Faculty Visit Page Open details for Faculty Recent News Check out the latest news in CompLit@Brown. You can find more stories on the News & Events page. Elizabeth Gray (PhD 2019), Appointed Assistant Professor at Penn State May 26, 2022 Read Article Open details for Elizabeth Gray (PhD 2019), Appointed Assistant Professor at Penn State ‘The Nordic Podcast’ Interviews Prof. Arnold Weinstein, About 2010 Book on Nordic Literature and Art May 24, 2022 Read Article Open details for ‘The Nordic Podcast’ Interviews Prof. Arnold Weinstein, About 2010 Book on Nordic Literature and Art Comp Lit 2022 Commencement Diploma Ceremony to be Held in Person April 27, 2022 For the first time since Spring of 2019, the Comparative Literature Department will hold its Commencement Diploma Ceremony in-person for the class of 2022. Read Article Open details for Comp Lit 2022 Commencement Diploma Ceremony to be Held in Person 2022 Comp Lit Honors Thesis Forum April 25, 2022 Comp Lit senior concentrators may choose to do an honors thesis. Most students require two semesters to plan and complete an Honors Thesis, which is usually between 50 and 100 pages long. Read Article Open details for 2022 Comp Lit Honors Thesis Forum Spring 2022 “Research Matters” Event Includes Presentation by Comp Lit PhD Candidate, Baoli Yang April 20, 2022 Comparative Literature PhD student, Baoli Yang, will deliver a presentation at the Brown Grad School's "Research Matters" event. Baoli's research primarily focuses on medieval Sinoscript literature and its modern repercussions, manuscript culture, Chinese poetics, empire studies, and Silk Road studies. Read Article Open details for Spring 2022 “Research Matters” Event Includes Presentation by Comp Lit PhD Candidate, Baoli Yang Studying Literature: A BDH Letter from Prof. Arnold Weinstein April 15, 2022 In the April 8th issue of the Brown Daily Herald, Comp Lit professor, Arnold Weinstein, had a letter published entitled, “The Case for Studying Literature at Brown”. Read Article Open details for Studying Literature: A BDH Letter from Prof. Arnold Weinstein VR Workshop Conducted by Prof. Jeffrey Neidermaier Brings Japanese Heian Period to Present Day April 8, 2022 Much like today, the elite society of Japan's Heian era (794–1185 CE) was saturated with dimly glowing screens. In their case, the screens were standing folding screens (byōbu) sumptuously decorated with painted illustrations and calligraphed poetry. Read Article Open details for VR Workshop Conducted by Prof. Jeffrey Neidermaier Brings Japanese Heian Period to Present Day Ben Connor (class of 2022) Awarded Fulbright Scholarship to France March 23, 2022 Comparative Literature graduating senior, Benjamin Connor, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to France for 2022-2023. Read Article Open details for Ben Connor (class of 2022) Awarded Fulbright Scholarship to France Elias Muhanna awarded the 2022 John Nicholas Brown Prize January 28, 2022 Read Article Open details for Elias Muhanna awarded the 2022 John Nicholas Brown Prize Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us About Us Contact Office Hours Faculty Meet our Faculty By Language By Period Undergraduate Program About the Undergraduate Program Info for Prospective Concentrators Honors Program Career Forum Department Undergraduate Group Graduate Program About the Graduate Program Current Students Program/Handbooks Reading Lists Translation Studies Certificate Courses Current Courses Previous Courses News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events The Andrea Rosenthal Memorial Lecture The Reinhard Kuhn Memorial Lecture This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Comparative Literature Open details for Comparative Literature Bookmark this Page