skip to: page content | links on this page | site navigation | footer (site information) The REGISTRY Home Program Description Subscribing Institutions Subscription Levels Candidate Stats FAQs About Us Contact Us ACCOUNT LOGIN Select Account Type Candidate Institution Institution (Limited Access) UserName : Password : >> Need Password Help? NO ACCOUNT? REGISTER NOW! New Institution » New Candidate » Welcome to The REGISTRY Over 1,700 diverse candidates Learn More » A Four-Year Public University located in Ames, Iowa Learn More » A program designed for diversity Learn More » Colleges and Universities from around the Nation Learn More » 1 2 3 4 5 Established in 1985, with over 2,000 open faculty positions posted last year and more than 1,700 diverse candidates, The REGISTRY is the premier national database of diverse & strategic faculty sponsored by a major university. The REGISTRY is committed to connecting the most diverse and qualified pool of candidates to colleges and universities around the country. The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty (The REGISTRY) connects institutions of higher education with diverse faculty candidates. Most recently, Texas Tech University, our host institution, was awarded Insight into Diversity’s Higher Education Excellence in Diversity (HEED) Top Colleges for Diversity and was named a “Champion of Diversity.” Learn more about The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty and our commitment to connecting women and minorities with tenure-track faculty positions in institutions of higher education. Unlimited job postings Unlimited résumé & database access Diverse faculty candidates from across the nation "Featured Institution" spotlight on The REGISTRY website Personal customer service Learn More » Free account Create your own profile Upload your résumé/CV Receive New Job Alerts See open faculty positions from across the nation Learn More » RESOURCES pages for Subscribing Institutions and Candidates containing links to helpful webpages and relevant articles Subscription good for a full year from the subscription date Additional passwords to share for limited access Automatic and manual job closing Access to closed searches for audit purposes Expanded list of disciplines Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn The National Registry of Diverse & Strategic Faculty Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Texas Tech University 233 Administration Building PO Box 45024, Mailstop 5024 Lubbock, TX 79409-5024 806-742-2369 phone | 806.742.2364 fax http://www.depts.ttu.edu/diversity | Webmaster © 2022 Texas Tech University. All Rights Reserved.