Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People Contact Give About Mission Message from the Director Our History People Contact Resources Library and Archives MAPA: Digital Atlas of Ukraine Russia's War on Ukraine Other Resources Publications Programs Harvard Ukrainian Summer Institute Temerty Contemporary Ukraine Program Seminars and Lectures Fellowships HURI Research Fellowships Jacyk Distinguished Fellowships Mihaychuk Research Fellowships Funding for Harvard Students Fellows News Events Site Search Search Statements on Russia's War Against Ukraine Russia's War on Ukraine Learn more What You Can Do Lists of places to donate and ways to help Support Ukrainian media and read factual information Take part in local action Initiatives at Harvard / Universities Resources for Ukrainians Resources for At-Risk People in Ukraine Displaced Scholars Data Preservation War Related Information Voices from Ukraine News Roundup HURI Resources Upcoming Events 2022 Jul 01 HUSI Public Event Series 1:15pm to 2:30pm 2022 Jul 08 HUSI Public Event Series 1:15pm to 2:30pm 1 of 3 »SEE ALL EVENTS External Events with HURI Experts 2022 Jun 06 Russia’s War in Ukraine: The Human Cost 7:00pm to 8:00pm 2022 Jun 15 Russia’s War in Ukraine: What Everyone Should Know 7:00pm to 8:00pm SEE ALL EVENTS Recent News TCUP Brief 3: Russia's War Crimes in Ukraine May 9, 2022 In the third TCUP Brief, Emily Channell-Justice examines reports of war crimes committed during Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and assault on Ukrainian cities. ... Read more about TCUP Brief 3: Russia's War Crimes in Ukraine Remembering Tamara Nary (1947-2022) April 26, 2022 It is with sadness that HURI has learned of the passing of Tamara Nary, longtime HURI Programs Administrator whose hospitality and warmth will be remembered by all who visited HURI during her tenure.... Read more about Remembering Tamara Nary (1947-2022) New TCUP Brief: The Roots of Russia's Assault on Ukraine April 21, 2022 In the second TCUP Brief, Emily Channell-Justice looks back at Paul D'Anieri's 2019 publication, Ukraine and Russia: From Civilized Divorce to Uncivil War, which traces the development of Ukraine, Russia, and their relationship since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991.... Read more about New TCUP Brief: The Roots of Russia's Assault on Ukraine SEE ALL NEWS Fellowships Early/ Mid - Career Scholars The Mihaychuk and HURI Research Fellowships support scholars at the beginning and middle of their academic careers. Senior Scholars The Petro Jacyk Distinguished Fellowship in Ukrainian Studies is offered biennially to advanced scholars. Harvard Students Harvard undergraduates and graduate students studying Ukraine may apply for research funding to support their work. Programs Harvard Ukrainian Summer Institute Run jointly with Harvard Summer School, our summer program offers seven intensive weeks of accredited study on Ukraine. Temerty Contemporary Ukraine Program Bringing together scholars and policy makers, TCUP fosters new conversations on contemporary Ukraine. Seminars and Memorial Lectures Open to the public, our weekly seminar series, lectures, and special events feature scholars from around the world. Publications NEW RELEASE In Isolation by Stanislav Aseyev and Mondegreen by Volodymyr Rafeyenko are now available in English translation. Learn more Books Published by HURI HURI's publications program is conducted at the high standard of scholarship and editing expected of Harvard. Our books are distributed by Harvard University Press and reviewed internationally. Visit the HURI Books website Harvard Ukrainian Studies Journal Harvard Ukrainian Studies (HUS) serves as an international forum for new scholarship in Ukrainian studies. All submissions undergo a rigorous double-blind peer review. Visit the HUS website Resources Find tools, books, and archival materials to assist with your research projects. Library With rare books, scholarly works, and extensive archives, Harvard’s libraries contain the largest Ukrainian collection outside Eastern Europe. MAPA The interactive Digital Atlas of Ukraine offers researchers, students, and teachers data and visualization tools to explore historical and contemporary Ukraine. List of Teaching Resources Built to assist with remote coursework during the COVID-19 pandemic, this list of online resources may be useful to those studying and teaching Ukraine. More about resources Sign up for our newsletter and receive information about upcoming events Subscribe Ukrainian Research Institute at Harvard University 34 Kirkland Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-4053 huri@fas.harvard.edu About Mission Message from the Director History of the Institute People Contact Resources MAPA: Digital Atlas of Ukraine Other Resources Publications Programs Harvard Ukrainian Summer Institute Temerty Contemporary Ukraine Program Seminars and Memorial Lectures Fellowships HURI Research Fellowships Jacyk Distinguished Fellowships Mihaychuk Research Fellowships Funding for Harvard Students Fellows News Events c9558a9985fdcc72c630fe0aee321103 9bce46280da9d482f3e951869407ff9c Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement