Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC startup helps police departments prevent, solve crime May 16, 2022 Software technology from a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup that focuses on records management and data analytics is helping law enforcement agencies more efficiently manage and share data to help solve crime. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC startup helps police departments prevent, solve crime May 16, 2022 Software technology from a University of Cincinnati Venture Lab-backed startup that focuses on records management and data analytics is helping law enforcement agencies more efficiently manage and share data to help solve crime. University of Cincinnati names graduate school dean May 10, 2022 Rose Marie Ward will serve as vice provost and dean of the Graduate School The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. Integrative health graduate certificate program approved April 25, 2022 Graduate certificate program in integrative health approved UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. Earth Day is every day for UC sustainability stewards April 21, 2022 With national Earth Day celebrated on April 22, events across all four campuses are bringing the awareness of UC's green energy initiatives and the improved built environment to light. While Earth Day was created in 1970, today a growing group of sustainability stewards all across UC continue to carry out the original Earth Day mission: from awareness to action. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. Chicago Tribune: CTA and police increased security April 15, 2022 Policing and crime prevention expert John Eck speaks to the Chicago Tribune about new strategies to protect rail passengers. WVXU: Women veterans of color feel out of step in higher ed April 5, 2022 Finding your place in higher ed is more difficult for women of color veterans Young, gifted and Black April 4, 2022 A Seat at the Table content series looks to explore the experiences and identities of diverse student populations at UC while shedding light on support, resources and opportunities available at the university. U.S. News & World Report grad school rankings spotlight UC... March 29, 2022 The 2023 edition of the U.S. News & World Report “Best Graduate School” rankings released March 29 shows several programs at the University of Cincinnati moved up significantly. There’s a better way to teach online security to older adults March 28, 2022 There’s a better way to teach older adults, and people in general, about online safety, a University of Cincinnati assistant professor wrote in The Conversation. Women of color student veterans experience higher education... March 22, 2022 Higher ed can find ways to bring women of color who are veterans into the college fold. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top