You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations Toggle navigation It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabled. Please turn on JavaScript and try again. Sign In Create Profile Programs & Services Spotlight Apply for the ACE Learner Success Lab Join an inclusive learning community that assists participating institutions in developing a comprehensive strategy for learner success. Applications are now open for Cohort 3, launching Sept. 2022. Learn More Professional Learning & Communities ACE Fellows Program Council of Fellows ACE Learning Circles ACE Women's Network Institutional Transformation Internationalization Laboratory Learner Success Laboratory Virtual Exchange/COIL Transformation Lab Learning Evaluations For Employers & Training Providers For Colleges & Universities For Students For Faculty The ACE National Guide The ACE Military Guide Annual Meeting Awards Sponsorship Opportunities Research & Insights Spotlight The 2022 American College President Survey is open College and university presidents: Help us create an up-to-date profile of the college presidency and the challenges and opportunities you face as a leader. Learn More Diversity & Inclusion Race and Ethnicity in Higher Education Campus Climate and Inclusion Minority Serving Institutions Women's Leadership Equity-Minded Leadership Student Support & Success Campus Mental Health & Well-Being Effective Practices for Transfer Students Post-Traditional Learners Persistence and Completion Effective Teaching Internationalization & Global Engagement Comprehensive Internationalization Global Partnerships International Students Mapping Internationalization on US Campuses Senior Leaders & Teams Pulse Point Surveys American College President Study Data-Enabled Leadership Policy & Advocacy Spotlight FEDERAL DOLLARS, CREATIVE LEADERS HELP TWO-YEAR COLLEGES POST-COVID In the latest dotEdu episode, Grand Rapids Community College President Bill Pink describes using relief funds and other initiatives to help students continue their postsecondary journey. Listen Budget and Appropriations A Brief Guide to the Federal Budget and Appropriations Process Campus Safety, Sexual Misconduct, and Title IX Resources on Title IX and Campus Sexual Assault Regulations COVID-19 Financial Aid Higher Education Act and Department of Education Renewing the Higher Education Act Immigration and International Students DACA and Dreamers Labor and Employment Law and the Courts Diversity in Admissions Science and Technology Tax and Finance Other Issues Veterans Education and the GI Bill Health Care Contact Government Relations 202-939-9355 Contact Public Affairs 202-939-9365 HENA@acenet.edu Government Relations Staff Advocacy Library Membership & Advancement Spotlight Milwaukee-area Institutions Amplify Student Success Two ACE members are collaborating to close equity gaps and increase degree attainment in Wisconsin through the M³ program. Read More Joining ACE Why Join ACE? Benefits of Membership Member Spotlights Membership Services Purchase the Mailing List Pay Dues Member Directory Support ACE Why Give to ACE? Donate Now Corporate Engagement Affiliate Member Insights Foundation Support Annual Meeting Annual Meeting Opportunities Contact Membership 202-939-9340 membership@acenet.edu Contact Advancement 202-939-9498 advancement@acenet.edu JOIN ACE News Room Publications Events Blog PODCAST About Us Donate Rollup Image The ACE Military Guide American Council on Education  Programs & Services  The ACE Military Guide Top Recent Event Type Descriptions Form-Document Download Forms Marketing Interest Areas Master Exit Popup ACE Testimonials Programs & ServicesCurrently selected Site Contents The ACE Military Guide About the ACE Military Guide Section 1 Content The ACE Military Guide is the sole source of information for all military courses and occupations evaluated by ACE from 1954 to present. In April 2021, ACE launched a modernized and improved version of the Military Guide, which includes these new features: A streamlined format for course and occupation summaries A public Joint Services Transcript (JST) upload feature for students A dedicated application to support colleges and universities in making credit award decisions Simplified and user-friendly navigation and design The ACE Military Guide retains these hallmarks: Information for all military courses and occupations evaluated by ACE Multiple ways to search for courses and occupations—by service, date, ACE ID or military course number, and course or occupation title Evaluations conducted by college and university faculty members who are actively teaching in the areas they review Section 1 Content Left Section 1 Content Right What's Your Role? Section 2 Content A postsecondary institution that wants to make collaborative and informed credit award decisions A learner who hopes to apply military experience toward a degree A military training provider who advises students and leadership on training programs evaluated for potential academic credit Whatever your role, the ACE Military Guide is for you. Follow the path below that best meets your needs. Section 2 Content Left Section 2 Content Right Untitled College or University Sign up for a free ACE Military Guide Institution Account to start mapping ACE credit recommendations for military training and experiences to your course catalog. Sign Up Military or Veteran Student Apply ACE credit recommendations for your military training and experiences to get the college degree you want. Learn More Military Training Provider Explore the results of ACE military course and occupation reviews and use the new tools and data to plan for future reviews and set priorities. Learn More Learn More Section 3 Content Section 3 Content Left Section 3 Content Right ACE Military Guide FAQ Find answers to frequently asked questions about the Military Guide. Read More For Colleges and Universities Learn how to interpret ACE credit recommendations and award credit for prior learning. Read More For Students Find out how ACE college credit recommendations from military service, workforce training programs, apprenticeships, standardized exams, or other types of experiential learning can help you earn a degree faster. Read More For Employers and Training Providers Learn how ACE’s Learning Evaluations can help your organization receive college credit recommendations for military and workforce training programs. Read More For Faculty ACE faculty evaluators review military training and occupations, as well as training and exams, for a variety of organizations and corporations. Learn more about how faculty evaluators contribute to the ACE review process. Read More Start Your Search The ACE Military Guide lists credit recommendations and detailed summaries for courses and occupations offered by all branches of the military. Start your credit recommendation search now. Read More Section 4 Content Section 4 Content Left Section 4 Content Right Section 5 Content Section 5 Content Left Section 5 Content Right Section 6 Content Section 6 Content Left Section 6 Content Right Page Content How to Use the Course Search Use this reference video to help you use the Military Guide to access ACE credit recommendations for military training. Click on the YouTube logo in the player to watch the video in full-screen mode. HTML Form Web Part ‭[2]‬ ACE's Mission ACE is a membership organization that mobilizes the higher education community to shape effective public policy and foster innovative, high-quality practice. American Council on Education One Dupont Circle NW Washington, DC 20036 202-939-9300 Washington Higher Education secretariat ACE convenes higher education organizations through the Washington Higher Education Secretariat (WHES). Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Visit ACE Donate Careers © American Council on Education Sign up for Higher Ed News Be the first to learn about industry news, our advocacy work, and our programs and services helping institutions better serve students, faculty, staff, and communities. 14 500 460