Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Visit Us We can’t wait to see you! Home Undergraduate Visit Us Visit UM and Miami Herbert Undergraduate Business To schedule a campus visit, please register with the Office of Admission. If you are interested in adding a virtual information session at Miami Herbert Business School, please express your interest to the Office of Admission, and the Admissions staff will let us know the date you are planning to visit. Information sessions at Miami Herbert are generally held Monday through Friday at 2 p.m. EST. Once Admissions has advised us of your intended visit date, we will send you a confirmation of your scheduled Undergraduate Business information session. Should you need to contact our office about the visit, we can be reached at undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu. Schedule Your Visit Today! Virtual Campus Tours Prospective students and families can also connect with UM virtually. Virtual Visit To communicate with us directly: Undergraduate Business Education Office 104 Merrick Building Coral Gables, FL 33124-2010 Telephone: 305-284-4641 Toll-Free: 800-368-3795 Fax: 305-284-5024 Email: undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu Our Virtual Reception Zoom Room is open Mondays - Fridays between 9:30am and 4:30pm for you to log In and ask questions live and via the chat function. Visit The Virtual Zoom Room Directions and Parking Directions to University of Miami Coral Gables Campus Driving from the North From I-95 Take I-95 South. The highway feeds into U.S. 1; continue south on U.S. 1 about five miles. Make a right at Stanford Drive, crossing Ponce de Leon Blvd. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. From I-75/826 Take I-75 to 826 (Palmetto Expressway) south to Miller Drive exit. Make a left onto Miller Road (SW 56th Street) and drive to end of road. Make a right onto San Amaro Drive to end. Turn left onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard. Make a left at third light onto Stanford Drive. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. From Florida Turnpike Take Florida Turnpike south to Bird Road (SW 40th Street) and exit east. Continue on Bird Road to LeJeune Road (42nd Avenue), turn right. Take a right onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard, then right onto Stanford Drive. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. Driving from the South From US-1 Take US 1 North through South Miami and make a left turn onto Stanford Drive (Book Horizons will be on the right). From 826 Take 826 (Palmetto Expressway) West/North, to exit Miller Drive (SW 56th Street). Make a left turn onto Miller Road (SW 56th Street) and go east to the end of the road. Make a right turn onto San Amaro Drive. At the light at Ponce de Leon Boulevard, make a left turn and another left turn onto Stanford Drive at the light. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. Driving from Miami International Airport Exit airport onto LeJeune Road. Proceed south for approximately five miles (through downtown Coral Gables). Make a right turn onto Ponce de Leon Boulevard. At Stanford Drive (just after Granada Boulevard), make a right turn into the University of Miami. Stop at the Information Booth for visitor parking information. Parking For University of Miami visitors, either a valid UM parking pass is required between 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, or a paid meter is necessary. Parking is available at: Municipal parking meters - Please note that you will be ticketed if time expires. Pavia Garage - Ask the information booth representative for directions to the Pavia Garage. You will need to purchase a parking pass from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. To familiarize yourself with all the parking facilities on campus, please refer to the Coral Gables Campus map. Directions to Miami Herbert Undergraduate Business Education Office Miami Herbert Business School is located on the north side of the cul-de-sac known as Stanford [Drive] Circle. As you approach the Stanford Circle, proceed down the pathway parallel to the canal. Walk to the center of the Miami Herbert Business School complex of buildings and continue down the path along the canal, beyond the elevators, to a large bricked courtyard with tall palms (Cesarano Circle). To your left, the Merrick Building has a breezeway running through its middle on the first floor. Proceed to the Merrick Building; Suite 104 is on the left side in the breezeway, across from the Center for Judaic Studies. Rideshare Directions Cabs and rideshares from Miami International Airport (i.e., Lyft, Uber, Super Shuttle) are available with prices ranging from approximately $15 to $25. Address to use: Merrick Building, Room 104 5202 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 You will be dropped off at the back of the Miami Herbert Business School complex in a large, bricked courtyard with tall palms (Cesarano Circle). Straight ahead is the Storer Auditorium. To the right is the Merrick Building, which has a breezeway running through its middle on the first floor. Proceed to the Merrick Building; Suite 104 is on the left side in the breezeway, across from the Center for Judaic Studies. Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback