Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Financial Aid Types of Aid Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Financial Aid Working toward, and ultimately completing your graduate degree is an investment in yourself. Deciding where and what to study can be exhilarating and exciting. It can also be confusing and stressful, especially when you consider the costs associated with earning an advanced degree. We believe your time and energy should be spent focusing on your studies instead of your finances. The SMU Graduate Financial Aid Office was created to provide graduate students with a reliable resource for information on issues unique to graduate programs. Announcements, Dates & Deadlines 2022-2023 Academic Year (Fall Term 2022 – Summer Term 2023): Scholarships for graduate-level programs are determined by academic departments, typically through the admissions process, and then submitted to the Graduate Financial Aid Office to be included in your total financial aid offer. The Graduate Financial Aid Office does not have scholarship or grant funding available. Questions regarding scholarships for graduate students should be directed to the academic department. If your scholarship does not appear as part of your total financial aid offer, please contact your academic department for information. The 2022-2023 FAFSA is available for use. Go to www.studentaid.gov to complete and submit the 2022-2023 application for federal and state financial aid programs. SMU strongly encourages using the Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) to complete your FAFSA. The FAFSA DRT will automatically pull 2020 tax information directly from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) which reduces errors, shortens processing wait times, and minimize the chances of being selected for verification. Financial Aid awarding cycle for the 2022-2023 academic year is scheduled as follows: New incoming graduate student awards are scheduled to begin in late April and will continue on a rolling basis. Returning/Continuing graduate student awards will not begin until mid to late June after grades from the prior SPRING term have been evaluated and posted. Award notifications will be sent to your SMU email address. Students who utilize credit-based loan funding such as the Federal GradPLUS, Texas College Access Loan (CAL), or a private consumer-based education loan must submit a new loan application specifically for the 2022-2023 academic year. 2021-2022 Academic Year (Fall Term 2021 – Summer Term 2022): The 2021-2022 FAFSA will remain available to students attending Fall 2021 – Summer 2022. Go to https://studentaid.gov to complete and submit your 2021-2022 application for federal and state financial aid programs. SMU strongly encourages using the Data Retrieval Tool (DRT) to complete your FAFSA. The FAFSA DRT will automatically pull 2019 tax information directly from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) which reduces errors, shortens processing wait times, and minimize the chances of being selected for verification. Financial Aid awarding cycle for the 2021-2022 academic year is ongoing. Enrollment Requirements: Federal aid for any given term requires part-time enrollment (typically 4.5 or more credit hours). For enrollment of less than 4.5 hours, students may use one of the private lenders listed in the Types of Financial Aid link at the top of the page. Students who are withdrawing from the University or dropping a class should contact their Financial Aid advisor for additional information on how the change in enrollment will impact current financial aid awards. Graduate Financial Aid Office Contact Information Graduate Financial Aid Office Graduate Advising Check-In and Service Desk Blanton Student Services Building Suite 119 GradFinAid@SMU.edu 214-768-3417Office Main 214-768-3878 Office Fax Graduate Financial Aid Advisors Ashley Griffin-Ruiz Assistant Director agriffinruiz@smu.edu 214-768-2371 Simmons School of Educ. and Human Dev. (Counseling and Dispute Resolution only) Research & Graduate Studies, Master of Data Science(Online) Meadows School of the Arts Shaun Walker Sr. Financial Aid Advisor marshaunw@smu.edu 214-768-3348 Dedman College of Humanities/Sciences Dedman School of Law Perkins School of Theology, Simmons School of Educ. and Human Dev. (Education and Human Dev Programs only) Scott McCown Financial Aid Advisor gmccown@smu.edu 214-768-6027 Cox School of Business Lyle School of Engineering SMU Guildhall Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer / May Terms Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share