HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Counts Facility Hours Clemson Campus Recreation Policies and Procedures For a downloadable version of all Campus Recreation Policies and Procedures . General Department of Campus Recreation Inquires For general information pertaining to facility operations, contact the Fike Recreation Welcome Center Desk at 864-656-3453 during hours of operation or e-mail welcomecenter@clemson.edu. Please visit our individual facility web pages for specific facility amenities and our program pages for offerings. Our Contact Us web page linked from the department home page provides a comprehensive list of staff contact information. Department of Campus Recreation Conduct All participants must conduct themselves properly and respect staff directives while using Campus Recreation facilities and while participating in programs, on or off campus. Participants in all Campus Recreation activities should display high standards of sportsmanship and should cooperate fully with the Campus Recreation staff to ensure safe and successful operations. All participants must follow the Department of Campus Recreation policies and procedures, obey all Clemson University policies, and follow all local, state and federal laws. Personal Training and Gain Personal training or other activities for personal gain is prohibited in Campus Recreation facilities. All personal training services must be conducted through a Campus Recreation contracted personal trainer. Accident Procedures Participants that utilize the Department of Campus Recreation facilities do so at their own risk and are responsible for their own welfare and safety. Participants injured while utilizing the Department of Campus Recreation facilities must notify Campus Recreation staff immediately. Campus Recreation staff will attend to these situations and act as a first responder. Campus Safety with EMS/CUPD will be called for vital emergencies. Please report all hazardous conditions or concerns to the Campus Recreation staff immediately. Please visit the Clemson University Emergency Management web page for emergency planning information. Lost or Stolen Items The Department of Campus Recreation is not responsible for any lost or stolen items. Participants may contact the Fike Recreation Welcome Center Desk during operating hours or e-mail welcomecenter@clemson.edu to verify if items have been located. Items will not be kept for more than two weeks. Participants who experience a theft of property should notify Campus Recreation staff immediately and contact CUPD to complete a police report. Day-use lockers that are available on a first come first served basis within Swann and Douthit Fitness Centers. When using a day locker at Swann Fitness Center, the participant needs to bring their own lock. If you do not have your own lock, combination locks are available for purchase at the Fike Welcome Center Desk. All locks and personal belongings must be removed from day use lockers by closing that day. Photography, Video and Research Any photo, video or research requests must be pre-approved by Campus Recreation Staff. Please submit requests at least 2 weeks before the desired date of action. Click on the following links and contact the Director of External Relations, Kelly Ator ( lator@clemson.edu) with any questions. Campus Recreation Photography and Video Access Request Form Campus Recreation Research Access Request Form CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster