Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Humanities and Cultural Studies (BA) Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Philosophy In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Bachelor of Arts degree in Humanities and Cultural Studies enables students to receive solid foundations in the interdisciplinary study of cultures and meanings. Students study how human cultures have produced meaning in the past and continue to do so, reflect critically on these productions, and learn relevant perspectives and meaningful interpretations that contribute to responsible engagement with the many cultural expressions we encounter today. Students conduct pertinent research in the Humanities--including the study of languages, literature, history, jurisprudence, philosophy, comparative religion, ethics, and the arts while developing their own skills of critical evaluation and constructive engagement. Upon graduation, students are open to entering the job market, pursuing advanced education, or studying/teaching abroad with solid skill sets in an increasingly culturally diverse and politically complex world. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Co-op or internship credit cannot be used in this major without prior approval by the chair. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course. Students should consult with a departmental advisor. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Philosophy Department. Courses designated in General Education Program and Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Braille Teacher Flight Simulator Teacher Interdisciplinary Professor Military Science Teacher Project Management Professor Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Humanities and Cultural Studies (BA) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Bachelor of Arts degree in Humanities and Cultural Studies enables students to receive solid foundations in the interdisciplinary study of cultures and meanings. Students study how human cultures have produced meaning in the past and continue to do so, reflect critically on these productions, and learn relevant perspectives and meaningful interpretations that contribute to responsible engagement with the many cultural expressions we encounter today. Students conduct pertinent research in the Humanities--including the study of languages, literature, history, jurisprudence, philosophy, comparative religion, ethics, and the arts while developing their own skills of critical evaluation and constructive engagement. Upon graduation, students are open to entering the job market, pursuing advanced education, or studying/teaching abroad with solid skill sets in an increasingly culturally diverse and politically complex world. Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog. Co-op or internship credit cannot be used in this major without prior approval by the chair. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course. Students should consult with a departmental advisor. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 18 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF Philosophy Department. Courses designated in General Education Program and Common Program Prerequisites are usually completed in the first 60 hours. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: HUM2020 - Encountering the Humanities (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: PHI2010 - Introduction to Philosophy (3) REL2300 - World Religions (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: HUM2210 - Studies in Culture: Ancient to 17th Century (3) HUM2230 - Studies in Culture: 17th Century to Present (3) GEP Courses: HUM 2020, PHI 2010, REL 2300, HUM 2210 and HUM 2230 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 30 Total Credits No Rules Core Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: HUM3800 - Research Methods in Humanities (3) Theories and Methods 9 Total Credits Complete at least 3 of the following: HUM3805 - Critical Theory in the Humanities (3) HUM3806 - Critical Race Theory (3) HUM3830 - Introduction to Digital Humanities (3) HUM4330 - Performance Theory (3) HUM4823 - Queer Theory in the Humanities (3) HUM4826 - Postcolonial Theory (3) HUM3326 - Theories of Sex and Gender in Humanities (3) Cultural Traditions 9 Total Credits Complete at least 3 of the following: HUM3320 - Contemporary Multicultural Studies (3) HUM3401 - Asian Humanities (3) HUM3402 - East Asian Folklore and Popular Culture (3) HUM3423 - African Humanities (3) HUM3460 - Latin American Humanities (3) HUM3467 - Latinx Cultural Expressions (3) HUM4459 - American Cultural Studies in Humanities (3) Topics in Cultural Studies 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following Section A Complete the following: HUM4931 - Key Figures in the Humanities & Cultural Studies (3) Section B Complete at least 2 of the following: HUM4381 - Race and Technology (3) HUM4934 - Key Concepts in Humanities & Cultural Studies (3) HUM3307 - Memory and Testimony (3) HUM4394 - Place and Space (3) Restricted Electives 3 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 3 credits from the following types of courses: Any upper division HUM course not being used to satisfy any of the above categories can be used here or a related course with approval of Humanities and Cultural Studies adviser. A list of approved restricted elective courses is found in the myKnight audit Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: HUM4933 - Senior Research Seminar (3) Grand Total Credits: 45 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida