Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Social Work About Programs Apply Now Students Faculty & Staff Research Community Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate About the Bachelor of Arts in Social Work HandbookSchool Social Work Licensure ProgramDCS Tuition Assistance & Certification Programs Prospective Social Work Majors Brochure Program Requirements Application to Declare SWRK Major Current Students Degree Planning SheetCourse SequenceSemester SchedulesAcademic AdvisingHumanities Requirement Field Field HandbookField AgenciesField FormsField Powerpoint Financial Aid & Scholarships UofM Undergraduate Catalog Access UofM Campus Appointment Calendar Virtual Career Center Take Action Learn more about Social Work Explore the School of Urban Affairs and Public Policy Support Social Work Education Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Social Work Undergraduate Apply to the Undergraduate Program How to Apply for the Social Work Program Note: Students wanting to change their major to Social Work must apply to the BA Social Work program. Students must take the required courses before applying: SWRK 2010, SWRK 2911, and SWRK 2011* with a grade of C- or higher. Students can be enrolled in either SWRK 2911 and/or SWRK 2011 upon application. *Students in Catalog Term (CT) included in or prior to Fall 2017 are not required to take SWRK 2011, but they must adhere to their Catalog Term's requirements for the major. See more about finding Catalog Term here. What's needed to apply: U-number Access that here: https://www.memphis.edu/bf/myulookup.php PDF copy of unofficial University of Memphis transcript Find how to access that here: https://www.memphis.edu/registrar/students/selfserv/transcript-un.php Screenshots pasted into a Word Document will NOT be accepted. Please "Save As – PDF". If you have transfer credit from another college/university that is not currently on your unofficial UofM transcript, there is another upload slot to upload that transcript. Personal Goals Statement (completed as an assignment in SWRK 2011). Students in Catalog Term 2017 and before CT Fall 2017 will need to write the Personal Goals Statement by themselves before submitting their BA application using the following guide: The Personal Goals Statement should be approximately three (3) pages long, typed, double-spaced, utilizing citations and references if/when needed within the essay, and providing the following information: Your work and volunteer experience The important facets of your identity and the people and experiences that have made important contributions to your identity Your personal strengths that you believe will assist you in becoming an effective social worker The limitations that will challenge you as you seek to become an effective social worker and how you will overcome those limitations The values that are important to you and how they complement the values of the social work profession Your short term (5-year) and your long term (more than 10 years) professional career goals Additional writing sample. Literature review or research-based paper preferred; can be from any college-level class. There is a spot under the upload slot to describe your writing sample. Please be sure to include the course name, assignment name/document title, and semester + year written. Ex. SWRK 2011 – Literature Review – Fall 2018. Finding your Catalog Term. Go to https://myuofm.memphis.edu/ and log in. Then, go to the Student tab. From the Student Tab, go to Banner Self Service (looks like folders). Select the Student folder. Then select Student Records. Under Student Records, select View Student Information. From the next screen, select the term that comes up (mine shows Spring Term 2019). Click Submit. From the next screen, you will see your General Student Record. This will show you what Catalog you are on. Application process: Apply online Students enrolled in SWRK 2011 that have already taken or are currently taking SWRK 2911 and SWRK 2011 concurrently are encouraged to apply immediately upon completion of the Personal Goals Statement. Students that fall in the category of not being required to take SWRK 2011, apply while enrolled in SWRK 2911 (but will need to write the Personal Goals Statement on their own). Access the online application here: https://memphis.co1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_eCWseMJgKg9kP6l Completed applications are passed out to BA faculty members for review during a faculty meeting (typically a month after application is completed, depending on time of year) Application is reviewed by at least 1 BA faculty member, and then by the BA program director If more information is needed, or there is a concern with your application, you may be called to the BA program director's office for a meeting Upon final decision, BA program director will email with notification and next steps Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/27/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.