Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Budgets and Financial Planning Welcome to the Office of Budgets and Financial Planning The Office of Budgets and Financial Planning is a proactive and integral partner in the implementation of Clemson's strategic plan by serving as a one-stop location for the highest quality, value-added business and financial planning, projections and decision support related to efficient resource allocation and utilization. We strive to collaborate and cooperate with all departments within the University to establish best practices and to promote and secure Clemson University’s financial resources. Our Mission The Budgets and Financial Planning Office supports the strategic missions of Clemson University by identifying, managing, projecting and analyzing financial resources. We make resource allocation recommendations based on an open budget process. We inform, support and advise executive management and University decision makers employing sound budget and financial principles. We work with academic and support units to guide them through the budget process and provide financial planning to further the academic, research, outreach and community service missions of Clemson University. We strive to collaborate and cooperate with all departments within the University to establish best practices and to promote and secure Clemson University’s financial resources. Our Vision The Office of Budgets and Financial Planning will be a proactive and integral partner in the implementation of Clemson's strategic plan by serving as a one-stop location for the highest quality, value-added business and financial planning, projections and decision support related to efficient resource allocation and utilization. Announcements Workday Adaptive Planning Soft Launch – 2/21/22 Workday Adaptive Planning is now live for FY23 budget development activities. For additional tools and resources, please go to the Knowledge Center. FY22 Vending Funds Have Been Awarded – 8/12/21 The FY22 vending funds process is not complete. Budget Centers have been appropriated funds based on the discussions with of the vending committee. We thank everyone who submitted a request and encourage you to submit requests for FY23 at the appropriate time regardless of FY22 award status. Additional details on permissible use of funds can be found on the OurClemson website. FY22 Budget Amendment Cash Transfer and Mismatched Transfers Reconciliations – 6/30/21 Effective immediately in FY22, two budget amendment reconciliations (cash transfers and mismatched transfers) will now be the responsibility of the budget centers. This is an effort to provide budget centers additional tools and knowledge to assist in managing their budgets. To assist in this transition, we have created a training video and step-by-step quick reference guide for each process. The quick reference guides and training videos can be found on the Resources tab of the Budget Office website. FY22 Vending Funds Request Form Now Active – 6/15/21 The FY22 Vending Funds Request Form is now active. Budget Centers can submit their vending fund requests through the request form. Additional details on permissible use of funds and guidance on the submission process can be found on the OurClemson website. Student Fee College Re-distribution Journal Template – 12/17/20 The Budget Office created a Student Fee College Re-distribution Journal Template to help colleges streamline their student fee re-distribution process. This template can be used for central allocated revenue including ODE, ETAP, Traditional Masters and Summer School revenue college re-distribution. To use this template, budget center should have central allocated student fee budgeted at departments level so college re-distribution only requires actual revenue debit and credit between the holding department and receiving departments depending on budget center’s internal sharing agreement during the year. Budget center can modify template highlighted chart strings and post college actual revenue re-distribution journals on their own. The Student Fee College Re-distribution Journal Template can be downloaded by clicking here. Budget Amendments – 11/18/20 Effective immediately, the Budget Office will be restricting budget amendments that are recorded for funds 10 to 18. Budget amendments that transfer budget authority between and within budget centers (i.e., net zero impact) are permissible. Budget amendments that increase net expense must go through a monthly approval process. This approval review will be conducted on a monthly basis by both the Office of the Provost and the Budget Office. To request a budget amendment that increases net expenses, visit the Budget Maintenance section of the Budget Office’s Policy and Procedure website. Please submit the completed budget amendment template using this submission form. If approved, budget amendments will be recorded by the Budget Office. Issues identified will be raised by the Budget Office to the respective Budget Centers for retroactive remediation. Departmental Budgeting – 11/4/20 For FY22 and beyond, all Budget Centers will be required to budget any applicable sources (i.e., revenues and spending authority) and offsetting expenses at the departmental level. The Budget Office will be providing more guidance around departmental budgeting expectations as the FY22 budget development process approaches. Restricted Funding – 11/4/20 The Budget Office will continue to partner with Development to hold restricted funding discussions beginning in February. The purpose of these discussions is to identify additional restricted funding opportunities that may be available based on the purpose of the funds. It is expected that any restricted funding opportunities identified will be budgeted in each Budget Center’s FY22 All Funds Template. Home Budget Documents Policy Manual Resources Contact Us Related Links Accounting for Related Organizations Accounting Services Accounts Receivable Budget Office Office of Strategy & Analytics Cash and Treasury Services Controller's Office Human Resources Land and Capital Asset Stewardship Lean Office Payroll Procurement Services Shared Services Student Financial Services University Facilities Adaptive Planning Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram