Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Maguire Center Events Events 21st Annual Bonhoeffer Lectures in Public Ethics: Everyday Ethics for Exceptional Times J. Erik Jonsson Ethics Award Delta Gamma Lectureship in Values and Ethics Ethics & Compliance Certificate Public Scholar Lecture Conference of the Professions Past Events Student Engagement Student Engagement The Ethics Essay Prize Public Service Fellowships Teaching and Research Teaching and Research Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grant Program Resources Resources COVID-19 SMU Ethics Toolbox Papers Sound Ethics Research Newsletter Newsroom Newsroom From the Director's Desk Ethics Blog About Us About Us Leadership Cary M. Maguire Ethics Center Advisory Board Faculty Advisory Committee Contact Give ☰ Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Office of the Provost Cary M. Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility Teaching and Research Teaching and Research The Maguire Center for Ethics and Public Responsibility seeks to encourage teaching in the area of ethics. The field of ethics is a traditional subdivision of philosophy and religious studies, but is an important part of a broad range of disciplines and professions. SMU’s Ethics Toolbox: A Course Module The Maguire Center’s Faculty Advisory Committee consists of selected senior faculty members from SMU and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. The committee provides invaluable assistance to the Center's director in setting priorities and carrying out the Maguire Center programs. From the center's earliest years, we have showcased the university's most exciting scholars in our Public Scholar lecture series. Many of the Public Scholar lectures have been published (in slightly revised form) as Occasional Papers of the Center or as episodes of the Ethics Center’s podcast Sound Ethics. Between 2013 and 2018, the Ethics Center hosted the Faculty Incentive Grant Program, a funding opportunity for SMU faculty to enhance academic quality and reputation of the University, improve teaching and learning, and strengthen scholarly research and creative achievement. Teaching and Research Maguire Teaching Fellowship Public Scholars Faculty Incentive Grants Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share