Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller News & Events Home » News & Events » News & Events May 31, 2022 A Life of Determination and Generosity: Meet Roberta Scheller, Honorary Alumna ‘13Read more May 25, 2022 After Social Distancing, Scheller MBA Students’ First In-Person Case Competition Is Even SweeterRead more 2022 2021 2020 Archives May 31, 2022 A Life of Determination and Generosity: Meet Roberta Scheller, Honorary Alumna ‘13 From Roberta Scheller’s early years, she has shown a drive to make a difference in everything she does and works to support education and community health and well-being. As a daughter, sister, wife, mother, grandmother, designer, graduate, and friend, Roberta’s legacy of determination, devotion, and generosity has touched and inspired countless lives. Learn more about her lifetime of achievements. Read more May 25, 2022 After Social Distancing, Scheller MBA Students’ First In-Person Case Competition Is Even Sweeter As social distancing restrictions began to ease in early 2022, students again had opportunities to participate in case competitions to try their academic knowledge against real-world scenarios. Scheller College MBA students jumped at the chance to participate in the 2022 Race and Case Competition at the University of Denver Daniels College of Business and Breckenridge Ski Resort, where their skill on the slopes was part of the scoring. Read more May 25, 2022 From the Great Resignation to a Great Reimagination: Why Three Professionals Went Back to School for an MBA The Great Resignation led professionals to seek new career opportunities. Paroma Chakravarty, Benson Hu, and Ford Lindsay enrolled in the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA program ready for a career change. Read more May 24, 2022 Meet the Georgia Tech Scheller 2022 Executive MBA Student Council The Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA (EMBA) program has announced the members of its 2022 EMBA Student Council. Student Council members serve their fellow classmates and influence the direction of the program for future generations. Read more May 20, 2022 Culture, Community, and Business Abroad: Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBAs Travel to Portugal and Spain Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA students travelled to Portugal and Spain for their International Residency, where they learned more about local cultures and companies, unique business challenges of the region, and themselves. Read more May 19, 2022 The Intersection Podcast: Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA: Is it Right For You? In this episode of the Intersection Podcast, host Leo Haigh talks with Executive MBA student Kate Macchio and Trent Thurman, Associate Dean of the Executive MBA program, about all things Executive MBA. Read more May 18, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Launches New Online Business Analytics Graduate Certificate To meet the ever-growing demand for professionals with expertise at the intersection of data, business, and technology, the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is launching a new 100% online Business Analytics Graduate Certificate. Read more May 17, 2022 #SchellerAbroad: Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Hone Cross-Cultural Consulting Skills in Portugal Three Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time and Evening MBA students look back on their international practicum trip to Portugal. Read more May 17, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Revises Curriculum, Adds Electives The Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA program is making changes to its curriculum. Elective opportunities will be available in areas such as cybersecurity, fintech, product management, tech strategy, and more. There will also be an increased focus on leadership and strategy within the curriculum. Read more May 16, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA Gains STEM Designation The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Full-time and Evening MBA programs reach an educational milestone as they receive STEM designation. Read more May 13, 2022 Katie Badura Named a Poets&Quants 2022 Best 40-Under-40 MBA Professor Katie Badura, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior, has been named a 2022 Best 40 under 40 Professor by Poets&Quants. Read more May 13, 2022 Lizhen Xu Named a Poets&Quants 2022 Best 40-Under-40 MBA Professor Lizhen Xu, Associate Professor of Information Technology, has been named a 2022 Best 40 under 40 Professor by Poets&Quants. Read more May 12, 2022 Meet the Founders of Scheller: Peter Chung’s Restaurant Brings Seoul Food to Atlanta In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Month, learn about Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business undergraduate alum and entrepreneur Peter Chung, co-founder of the Mukja Korean Fried Chicken restaurant, and how he’s bringing awareness of Korean food and culture to Atlanta. Read more May 05, 2022 Francesca Sally Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest MBA Full-time MBA graduate Francesca Sally has been named a 2022 Best & Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants. Read more May 05, 2022 The Intersection Podcast: The Second Year of a Scheller MBA, Debriefed MBA student host, Leo Haigh, discusses ways to make the most of your time at Scheller with MBA graduating students Francesca Sally and Suzy Livingston. Read more May 04, 2022 Nammu Kumar Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest MBA Full-time MBA graduate Nammu Kumar has been named a 2022 Best & Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants. Read more April 28, 2022 Georgia Leaders Discuss the Business of Climate Solutions Georgia Tech President Ángel Cabrera and Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian discuss how businesses can make positive changes to address urgent issues such as climate change. The conversation, “The Business of Climate Solutions, Local to Global,” was moderated by SaportaReport editor Maria Saporta and CNN national correspondent Nick Valencia. Read more April 27, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Lorenz Wilke As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Lorenz Wilke. Read more April 25, 2022 #SchellerAbroad: Scheller MBA Students Travel to Dubai for Sustainability-Focused Practicum The Georgia Tech Scheller MBA International Practicum is a semester-long elective designed to give students on-the-ground international consulting experience, and a greater ability to define, analyze, and solve international business problems. Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time and Evening MBA students reflect on their culminating trip in Dubai. Read more April 25, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Translating Text Into Data Using Natural Language Processing in Analytics, Featuring Robbie Moon In this Lunchtime Live session, Professor Robbie Moon discusses some of the basic strategies of NLP including both traditional approaches and more recent advances in machine learning. Read more April 22, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Abigail Dees As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Abigail Dees. Read more April 20, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Andre Aponte As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Andre Aponte. Read more April 15, 2022 How to Navigate the Academic Job Search Experience: Advice From Graduating Scheller Ph.D. Students Graduating Ph.D. students from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business share their best advice for managing applications, interviews, job talks, and more during the academic job search process. Read more April 15, 2022 TI:GER Ph.D. Student Sets Up Oxford Immune Algorithmics (OIA) for $7M Raise Through the Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Amir Hejri contributes to biotech start-up OIA’s success, working with the company to achieve business objectives and accelerate growth as he finishes his dissertation. Read more April 14, 2022 #SchellerAbroad: Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Work with Clients in the Nordics The Georgia Tech Scheller MBA International Practicum is a semester-long elective designed to give students on-the-ground international consulting experience, and a greater ability to define, analyze, and solve international business problems. Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA students reflect on their culminating trip experience in the Nordics. Read more April 14, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Jolie Fouts As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Jolie Fouts. Read more April 12, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Conor Walsh As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Conor Walsh. Read more April 12, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Celebrates 14th Annual Honors Day The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recognizes its outstanding students, faculty, and staff at the 14th annual Honors Day Awards ceremony. Read more April 12, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: How to Analyze an Emerging Technology, Featuring Professor Eric Overby In this Lunchtime Live session, Professor Eric Overby presents a structured method for analyzing an emerging technology including its potential impact, the challenges faced, and how those challenges might be overcome. Read more April 12, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: The Effectiveness of Innovation Crowdsourcing, Featuring Professor Marius Florin Niculescu In this Lunchtime Live session, Professor Marius Florin Niculescu discusses approaches to innovation crowdsourcing and the role digital platforms play in the crowdsourcing process. Read more April 11, 2022 Scheller Explores the Metaverse: Addressing Fundamental Human Rights in a Virtual World The metaverse is expected to change the ways we play, work, and interact, but are we ready to address the human rights abuses that may lie ahead in a VR world? Read more April 11, 2022 Why Should M.S. and Ph.D. Students Consider an MBA Dual Degree? Learn about three reasons why Georgia Tech M.S. and Ph.D. students should consider an MBA dual degree through the Scheller College of Business. Read more April 08, 2022 2022 Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Returns to Campus The annual Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller returned to campus this March, with students, alumni, faculty and members of the Atlanta business community learning first-hand how some of the nation’s top organizations are re-imagining marketing. Guest presenters included marketing leaders from Inspire Brands, The Home Depot, and the Atlanta Braves. Read more April 08, 2022 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Nikita Dani As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Nikita Dani. Read more April 07, 2022 The Intersection Podcast: Building a Community of Female Founders and Leaders MBA student, Leo Haigh, joins with the last two presidents of the MBA Women in Business club, Nammu Kumar and Amanda Grupp, to reflect on their experiences building a community of inspirational female business leaders at Georgia Tech. Read more April 06, 2022 The Creative Destruction Lab at Georgia Tech Scheller Hosts Commerce Stream Session for Founders, Mentors, and MBAs For the first time in two years, CDL-Atlanta hosted founders, mentors, and Georgia Tech Scheller MBA students in person in a Super Session for start-up companies participating in the Commerce Stream. Read more April 04, 2022 Scheller Explores the Metaverse: One Company’s Plan to Rule the Virtual World In the quest to rule the metaverse, Meta, Facebook’s parent company, is trying to take the lead. Eric Overby, Catherine & Edwin Wahlen Professor of Information Technology, discusses their plans so far. Read more March 31, 2022 How Can a DIY Paradigm Help Nonprofits Maximize Impact? The paper sheds light on participatory design in action. Beneficiaries can be empowered to be executors of their own dreams by being given partially complete templates. Read more March 29, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top 10 in Business Analytics, Information Systems, and Operations The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA ranks top 10 in business analytics, information systems, and operations, according to the U.S. News & World Report 2023 Best Business School ranking. Read more March 29, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Servant Leadership: From the Football Field to the Board Room and Beyond, Featuring Dr. Kofi Smith In this Lunchtime Live session, Dr. Kofi Smith, Georgia Tech B.S. Industrial and Systems Engineering and Executive MBA alum, discusses how adopting a servant leadership approach took him from the Georgia Tech football field to the board room and on to becoming an entrepreneur running a multimillion-dollar business. Read more March 28, 2022 Aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln: Denning T&M and School of Aerospace Engineering Representatives Become Distinguished Visitors of the Navy John Stanford of the Denning T&M program and faculty from the School of Aerospace Engineering get the experience of a lifetime boarding the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln. Read more March 28, 2022 Benjamin Barnett Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest Business Major Undergraduate Benjamin Barnett is selected as P&Q’s 2022 Best & Brightest Business Majors for Undergraduates. Read more March 28, 2022 Kara Pomerantz Named Poets&Quants 2022 Best & Brightest Business Major Undergraduate Kara Pomerantz is selected as P&Q’s 2022 Best & Brightest Business Majors for Undergraduates. Read more March 21, 2022 How Social Media is Changing the Way Citizens and Companies React to War Social media has created new ways to inform global citizens of ongoing wars and conflicts. Tim Halloran from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and Amy Bruckman from the College of Computing explore what this means for individuals, companies, and society. Read more March 17, 2022 Creative Destruction Lab Launches New Global Space Stream at Georgia Tech Scheller The launch of the global Space stream of the Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business unlocks a new world of possibilities for founders and students. Read more March 17, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Frank Rothaermel Receives Theory-to-Practice Strategy Award From Vienna Strategy Summit Frank Rothaermel, professor of strategy and innovation, is the recipient of the 2022 Theory-to-Practice Strategy Award from the Vienna Strategy Summit. Read more March 16, 2022 "A Rising Tide Lifts All Ships”: How Georgia Tech’s Women in Business Clubs Empower Students In honor of Women’s History Month, Scheller shares the stories of two of Georgia Tech women’s-focused clubs: Society of Women in Business for undergraduates and Women in Business for MBA students. Read more March 14, 2022 Alumna Profile: For Unwanna Etuk, Sustainability is a (Literal) Journey Marching band enthusiasts, rejoice! Unwanna Etuk (pronounced oo-WAH-nuh, EH-tʊk) (BS INTA ’19), partnership coordinator and research analyst at The Ray, credits band with kicking off her sustainability journey. In this latest installment in our series of profiles on sustainability leaders among Georgia Tech alumni, discover how Unwanna translated the leadership skills acquired as a drum major into an early career in sustainability-focused roles. Read more March 08, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Conversation with Chanel Frazier The Dean’s Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Speaker Series hosted BlackRock’s Chanel Frazier in a discussion around empowerment and leadership. Read more March 07, 2022 A Journey at the Intersection of Business, Technology, and Leadership: An Interview With Dean Maryam Alavi In honor of Women’s History Month, Georgia Tech Scheller MBA student Nammu Kumar interviewed Dean Maryam Alavi to learn about her journey as a leader in business and technology and the lessons she has learned along the way. Read more March 01, 2022 Nine Scheller Faculty Selected for Excellence in Teaching Award Nine Scheller faculty were awarded the Georgia Tech Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching award. Read more February 28, 2022 2022 René A. Simon Fellowship Awarded to Francesca Sally, First Black Graduate Business Council President Georgia Tech Scheller MBA student Francesca Sally has been awarded the René A. Simon Fellowship, which was created to support students who serve in their communities. Francesca is the first Black president of the Graduate Business Council (GBC) in the history of the College. Read more February 22, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Charles Spencer’s NSF-Funded Technology Teaches STEM Using DJ Equipment In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. Evening MBA alum and entrepreneur Charles Spencer founded his education technology company ThinkLive! to help students engage with STEM education using DJ equipment. Read more February 15, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Entrepreneur Kristen Daniel’s Latest Venture Brings Music Samples to Game Night In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. MBA alum and strategist Kristen Daniel shares her story of launching Heard It All Before, a new music samples game experience. Read more February 15, 2022 The Intersection Podcast: Black Tech Matters: The Future of Tech Talent in Atlanta In this episode of the Intersection Podcast, host and MBA student Leo Haigh talks with Scheller alumni Desmond Dickerson and Jonathan King about Atlanta’s past and present Black tech scene. Read more February 14, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Career Services Rank No. 2 in the World for a Consecutive Year The Financial Times has ranked the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business No. 2 in the world for MBA career services for the second year in a row. Read more February 10, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Connor Ford’s Journey as a Young Tech Entrepreneur Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Undergraduate alumni Connor Ford talks his journey as the founder of Spirit and one of the first employees at Infinite Giving. Read more February 10, 2022 Scheller-brate Love: From Ringing the Bell to Engagement Rings, Meet the Engaged Couples of Scheller In honor of Valentine’s Day, we caught up with three of Scheller’s engaged couples to learn about how they met and what it’s been like to go through the Scheller experience together. Read more February 10, 2022 The Financial and Economic Ramifications of the Ukraine-Russia Conflict Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty experts John McIntyre and Diane Alleva Cáceres provide insights into the Ukraine-Russia conflict and the economic and financial decisions facing affected countries. Read more February 07, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Conversation with Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Pioneer Nzinga Shaw Dean Alavi hosts Nzinga Shaw, as she discusses lessons learned from her experience creating diversity, equity, and inclusive programs within organizations. Read more February 02, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Entrepreneur Kathryn Smith Drives Progress for Black- and Women-Owned Businesses In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. MBA alum Kathryn Smith shares her entrepreneurial journey launching two companies, Walton Birch LLC and Black Lady Business School. Read more February 01, 2022 Meet the Black Founders of Scheller: Aboubacar Barrie and His Fashion Brand Forenaire In honor of Black History Month, the Georgia Tech Scheller College is celebrating our Black student and alumni entrepreneurs. We sat down with undergraduate Aboubacar Barrie to learn about his fashion brand Forenaire and experience as a young entrepreneur. Read more January 28, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: The Global Politics of Technology, Featuring Diane Alleva Cáceres In this Lunchtime Live session, Dr. Diane Alleva Cáceres will discuss the science, technology, and innovation strategies that countries are pursuing and why they are important to support long-term economic growth. Read more January 26, 2022 Highlights from the Fall 2021 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”) launched the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series in 2016 to develop and strengthen the network of sustainability-minded students, faculty, staff, practitioners, and community members. Hosting the series is just one way in which the Center serves as a connector and catalyst across diverse stakeholders in an effort to create more sustainable communities. Through informative talks, lively Q&As, and illuminating interviews, the series opens the lines of communication between current and future changemakers. Read more January 25, 2022 The Implications of Relative vs. Absolute Rating Systems on Workforce Performance In a recently published paper, Scheller faculty Morvarid Rahmani and Ph.D. student Chris Green studied the effectiveness of two different types of performance ranking systems. Read more January 24, 2022 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and Equifax Create Partnership to Advance Inclusive Fintech Innovation Dr. Sudheer Chava’s Financial Services Innovation Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, is partnering with Equifax to develop new ways to reach underserved, underbanked, and credit-rebuilding consumers. Read more January 13, 2022 Celebrating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Reflections From the Georgia Tech Scheller Community Members of the Georgia Tech Scheller community reflect on what Martin Luther King Jr. Day means to them. Read more January 04, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Millennials at 40: The Financial Realities That Gen Y Faces Today, Featuring Kevin Mahoney In this Lunchtime Live session, Kevin Mahoney, CFP®, founder & CEO of Illumint, and Georgia Tech MBA and MSCRP '11, will discuss the most prominent personal financial considerations that millennials face today. Read more January 04, 2022 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Serving on a Non-Profit Board: What You Need to Know, Featuring Dori Pap In this Scheller Lunchtime Live session, Dori Pap, Managing Director of the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, covers the basics of boards and board service, including requirements, responsibilities, types of boards, how to get started, and more. Read more December 22, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks No. 2 in U.S. For Classroom Experience The Princeton Review ranks the Georgia Tech Scheller MBA No. 2 in the U.S. for classroom experience and No. 7 for consulting. Read more December 21, 2021 Moving Forward, Together: Executive MBA Alumnae Sisters Liz Fettes and Christine Bartle Reflect on their Shared Scheller Bond Sisters Liz Fettes and Christine Bartle reflect on their paths to Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA program. Read more December 21, 2021 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2021-22 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2021-22 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. The Fellows and Ambassadors will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more December 20, 2021 The Intersection Podcast: The First Semester of a Scheller MBA, Debriefed First-year MBA student, Leo Haugh, speaks with his classmates, Paroma Chakravarty and Thomas Landzart, about their first core semester in the Scheller full-time MBA program. Read more December 15, 2021 Top 10 Most Popular Scheller Stories of 2021 A look back: Scheller reveals the top 10 most read articles of 2021. Read more December 10, 2021 Alumnus Profile: Meet “Serial Starter” Dave Williams In this latest installment in our series of profiles on sustainability leaders among Georgia Tech alumni, David Eady, the Center’s industry engagement manager senior, speaks with Williams, who also serves as a member of the Center’s Advisory Board. Williams shares his career trajectory, the benefits of a broad education in management, and his unexpected but fulfilling turn towards civic leadership. Read more December 10, 2021 Impacting Global Business: Catriona O’Grady and the Executive MBA Capstone Project Executive MBA student Catriona O’Grady shares why her capstone project with Panasonic Automotive was her favorite part of her MBA experience. Read more December 10, 2021 Jean Marie Richardson: Building a Legacy Entrepreneur Jean Marie Richardson, MGT 2002, discusses how she is giving back to Scheller by providing merit-based scholarships and through the Dean's Innovation Fund, as well as providing scholarships for women's athletics Read more December 09, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Lauren Chitwood As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Lauren Chitwood. Read more December 09, 2021 The Causes of and Cure for Inflation in the American Economy Alex Hsu, Georgia Tech Scheller associate professor of finance, explains the causes and effects of inflation and how to fix it. Read more December 08, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Elizabeth Glass As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Elizabeth Glass. Read more December 07, 2021 Five Critical Questions About Supply Chain Three Georgia Tech Scheller faculty weigh in on what’s causing the supply chain crisis, how it’s impacting the country, and what we can expect in the coming year. Read more December 03, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Lyle Hoge As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Lyle Hoge. Read more December 03, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Four Things I’ve Learned as a Leader at Chick-fil-A, Featuring Scheller MBA Alumna Amy Rich In this Lunchtime Live session, Chick-fil-A Area Director of the Southeast Region, Field Operations, and MBA class of 2012 alumna Amy Rich discusses four leadership lessons she has learned in her 16-year career at Chick-fil-A. Read more December 02, 2021 The Intersection Podcast: TI:GER: Technology Innovation and Commercialization with Jonathan Giuliano and Kyle Winkler MBA host Leo Haigh talks with Jonathan Giuliano, director of TI:GER and academic lead of CDL-Atlanta, and second-year MBA student Kyle Winkler about the Scheller MBA TI:GER program. Read more December 01, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Alan Yadav As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Alan Yadav. Read more November 30, 2021 Dubai Diaries: Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Students Reflect on Their International Residency in the Middle East Three Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA students reflect on their international residency trip to Dubai. Read more November 29, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Applying a DIY Paradigm in Any Organization, Featuring Karthik Ramachandran In this Lunchtime Live session, Professor Ramachandran will discuss ways an organization can achieve a positive impact for its customers in the face of financial or other constraints by providing unfinished products and services. Read more November 24, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Inika Jain As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Inika Jain. Read more November 22, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Matt Pacifico As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Matt Pacifico. Read more November 22, 2021 Sizing Up Atlanta’s Efforts to Reduce Waste: Beril Toktay Weighs in on WABE News for National Recycling Day Beril Toktay, professor of operations management and director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, was recently interviewed by WABE News about recycling infrastructure issues and solutions in the U.S. Read more November 19, 2021 Russell and Stella Ivie: Supporting Scholarship for Northeast Georgia Students Russell and Stella Ivie have established a Tech Promise Scholarship to provide further opportunities to students from Northeast Georgia who otherwise might have not been able to attend Georgia Tech due to financial hardship. Read more November 17, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Alex Dunaway As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Alex Dunaway. Read more November 16, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Roya Register As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program. Meet Roya Register. Read more November 16, 2021 How to Navigate the Journal Peer Review Process: Guidance From Scheller Faculty for Ph.D. Students Scheller faculty Dong Liu, Morvarid Rahmani, and Adithya Pattabhiramaiah share advice for Ph.D. students about the peer review process. Read more November 15, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Launches 2021 – 2026 Strategic Plan The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business launches its 2021 – 2026 Strategic Plan, charting a path to future growth and impact at the intersection of business and technology. Read more November 15, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top Five in Sustainability Education Eight Years in a Row The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business ranks No. 4 in the U.S. and No. 19 in the world for sustainability education, according to the 19th annual Better World MBA ranking by Corporate Knights. Read more November 11, 2021 From Georgia Tech Scheller Student to CEO: Meet Tech Industry Founders Aaron Enten, Daniel Frye, and Jean Marie Richardson Three Georgia Tech alumni discuss their journeys from the classrooms of the Scheller College of Business to success as tech industry entrepreneurs. Read more November 10, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Kali Beyah, Global Chief Talent Officer of Huge, Inc. In the latest Dean Maryam Alavi’s Speaker Series session, Kali Beyah, Global Chief Talent Officer of Huge, Inc., talks about three ways individuals can increase awareness and impact of diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives in their work environment. Read more November 10, 2021 Going the Extra Mile: Carlos Arango Combines Military Experience With an Executive MBA to Advance His Career Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA student Carlos Arango shares how his military background impacts his approach to the degree and how he landed his new job thanks to the opportunities the program provides. Read more November 10, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Pushing the Needle: Corporate Vaccination Mandates in the Age of Covid, Featuring Lucien Dhooge In this Lunchtime Live session, Professor Dhooge looks at the positive and negatives associated with vaccination mandates for private companies as well as employees, and offers strategies for companies adopting mandates. Read more November 09, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Hosts Launch Event to Inaugurate Drawdown Georgia Business Compact On October 21, 2021, the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact officially launched with a virtual panel discussion hosted by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”). Read more November 09, 2021 Translating Military Experience into a Business Future: The Story of the Scheller Veterans Club Learn about the founding of the Scheller Veterans Club, a student-led MBA organization for military members and the future plans current president Jarrod Snell has for its future. Read more November 05, 2021 Bob Torras: Creating Scholarship Opportunities for Coastal Georgia High school students from coastal Georgia who want to study business at Georgia Tech now have a scholarship opportunity, thanks to the generosity of Robert M. Torras Sr., IE 1955. Read more November 04, 2021 Georgia Tech Alumni Association Honors Scheller Alumna Jacquelyn Renée Schneider With Outstanding Young Alumni Award The Georgia Tech Alumni Association chooses Scheller alumnae Jacquelyn Renee Schneider as “Outstanding Young Alumni” as part of the 2021 Gold & White Honors program. Read more November 01, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Lizhen Xu and Dezhi Yin Win Sandra A. Slaughter Early Career Award at INFORMS Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business associate professor Linzhen Zu and Ph.D. alumnus Dezhi Yin have won the Sandy Slaughter Early Career Award from INFORMS. Read more November 01, 2021 Leaving Her Footprint: Aparna Sharma Reflects on Her Executive MBA Experience Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA student Aparna Sharma shares the lessons she has learned from her EMBA journey, her experience on the international residency trip to Dubai, and how the program has shaped her as a professional. Read more October 28, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Hosts 2021 Journal of Investment Management Conference This year’s Conference of the Journal of Investment Management (JOIM), held and co-sponsored by the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, addressed the effect climate change continues to have on the investment industry. Read more October 27, 2021 Facilitating Student Growth through Community Impact Ravi Subramanian, professor of operations management, partnered with Garry Harris, president of the Center for Sustainable Communities (CSC), for class projects in Business Decisions for Sustainability and Shared Value. Students had the opportunity to provide recommendations for a revitalization project that aims to foster community, increase prosperity, and promote health and well-being in a Virginia community. Read more October 27, 2021 Student Projects Unlock Sustainability Value HDDC, an organization dedicated to developing, renovating, and restoring affordable residential and commercial property within Atlanta's Old Fourth Ward, was so impressed with recommendations from an undergraduate team in the Sustainable Business Consulting Practicum that it signed on for a second project with an MBA team. Both projects focused on the Center's social performance & human rights core theme to help support equitable civil rights movement. Read more October 27, 2021 Students Develop Recommendations for E-bike Rideshare Program in Clarkston A team of two Graduate Sustainability Fellows (Sol Haroon and Victoria Skinner) and an Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassador (Mark Leggiero) partnered with a Georgia Tech Vertically Integrated Project (VIP) to examine the transportation gap in Clarkston. Read more October 22, 2021 Ron Beerman: Supporting Tech by Creating Opportunities Ronald J. Beerman, IE 1973, and Carol T. Beerman explain why they believe strongly in the value of higher education and why they are giving back to Georgia Tech in the form of four endowments, all of which support faculty and graduate students in the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering (ISyE) and the Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business. Read more October 21, 2021 The Financial Times Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Among Top 100 Programs in the World The Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA program ranks among top 100 programs in the world, according to The Financial Times. Read more October 20, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Alavi Hosts Craig Menear, Chairman and CEO of The Home Depot Dean Maryam Alavi hosted a virtual conversation with Craig Menear, Chairman and CEO of The Home Depot, to discuss customer service, digital expansion, and lessons learned while leading a top Fortune 500 company. Read more October 20, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBAs Travel to the United Arab Emirates Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA students recently traveled to Dubai for their international residency. Read more October 18, 2021 Beril Toktay Receives Sustainability Champion Award from the Global Electronics Council On October 7, 2021, the Global Electronics Council (GEC) honored Beril Toktay, Brady Family Chair in Management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, with a Sustainability Champion Award for her work through the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”), where she is faculty director. Read more October 18, 2021 Coming Home: From Scheller and Back Again with Dave Deiters, Executive Director of the Jones MBA Career Center For one Scheller alum, Dave Deiters, homecoming meant returning to the College as the executive director of the Jones MBA Career Center after graduating 39 years ago. Read more October 18, 2021 Marcell Sandoval, Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Alum, Named Forbes 1000 Entrepreneur Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alum Marcelo Sandoval has turned his dream of starting a clean technology company into a reality with his company, ProsumerGrid. Read more October 15, 2021 How to Create a Thriving Workplace: Insights from Georgia Tech First Lady Dr. Beth Cabrera Beth Cabrera provides advice on creating a thriving workplace and shares evidence-based approaches for improving employee well-being in a recent guest lecture to Scheller MBA students. Read more October 15, 2021 On The Rise: Class of 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Grads See Very Strong Employment Outcomes High employment levels achieved by Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBAs at top firms is a remarkable feat, demonstrating both the resilience of Scheller students and the constant, expert support of the Jones MBA Career Center. Read more October 13, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Launch Latin American Club The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA is launching a Latin American Club, with an inaugural event on Friday, October 15 featuring a student and alumni panel. Read more October 11, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business launches the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is launching the Drawdown Georgia Business Compact, an inclusive and collaborative initiative focused on galvanizing climate action in Georgia. Read more October 11, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: The Rise of Social Commerce: What it Means for Consumers and E-tailers Featuring Michael Buchanan In this Lunchtime Live session, Michael Buchanan provides a brief history of social interactions and consumer trends on key social media platforms. Read more October 11, 2021 The Intersection Podcast: MBA Journeys Into Consulting with Dave Deiters and Grace Stewart cle Title This Intersection Podcast episode explores consulting with Dave Deiters, industry expert and executive director of the Jones MBA Career Center, and Grace Stewart, current Scheller MBA student. Read more October 08, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA Alum Jacquelyn Renée Schneider: Putting Her Money Where Her Heart Is Scheller College of Business Evening MBA alum Jacquelyn Renée Schneider makes a generous life insurance commitment for the Dean’s MBA Fellowship Program. Read more October 08, 2021 Study Finds Use of Anger in Online Reviews Not Helpful, but Influential for e-Tailers Purchase Decisions Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty Han Zhang and Samuel Bond and colleague Dezhi Yin, Muma College of Business, University of South Florida, discover that “unhelpful” online reviews can be surprisingly influential, and that angry reviews should not be taken lightly. Read more October 07, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Increases in Diversity: Fall 2021 Incoming Class Profiles The Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs saw an increase in diversity for the Fall 2021 incoming class, with an increase in women, underrepresented minorities, and veterans represented in the classroom. Read more September 29, 2021 Family, Travel, and Coffee: Meet Boarding Pass Coffee Founder and Executive MBA Alum Murilo Farias Santos While in the Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA program, alumnus Murilo Farias Santos founded Boarding Pass Coffee, combining his love for travel, family, and coffee into a thriving business. Read more September 29, 2021 Making the Business Case for Sustainability: Students Pitch Carbon- and Cost-Saving Measures in the 2021 Carbon Reduction Challenge In Georgia Tech’s 2021 Carbon Reduction Challenge, organized by the Global Change Program and the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Scheller College of Business, students stepped up to propose ways to reduce carbon emissions and costs at major organizations. Read more September 24, 2021 Scheller College of Business Advisory Board Welcomes Seven New Members The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business welcomes seven new members to its Advisory Board. Read more September 24, 2021 “Take, Make, Waste” No More: How Katherine Huded (MBA ’20) Is Realizing Her Vision for a Circular Economy Our alumna profile spotlights Katherine Huded, director of Circular Ventures at The Recycling Partnership. Katherine shares how she made the transition from communications maven to circular economy expert and offers advice for those looking to get “a seat at the table” when companies are setting their sustainability strategy. Read more September 22, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Team Wins Second Place at the National Black MBA Association Graduate Case Competition Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA students Angel Daniels, Kerem Eroglu, Marshall Johnson, and Felicia Lamonthe placed second at the National Black MBA Association Graduate Case Competition. Read more September 21, 2021 Seven Scheller Community Members Receive 2021 “Faces of Inclusive Excellence” Recognition Georgia Tech recognizes seven Scheller College of Business community members as champions of diversity, equity, and inclusivity across campus. Read more September 17, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top 10 Among Public Institutions in Bloomberg Businessweek Rankings The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA ranks top 10 in the U.S. among public institutions, according to recent Bloomberg Businessweek rankings. Read more September 15, 2021 Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Conversation with Shan Cooper, Executive Director of the Atlanta Committee for Progress Shan Cooper, executive director for the Atlanta Committee for Progress, talks about her experiences in helping Atlanta progress in diversity, equity, and inclusion. Read more September 13, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Undergraduate Program Ranks Top 20 in the U.S., Top 10 Among Public Universities The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Undergraduate program ranks among the top 20 in U.S. in U.S. News & World Report’s recent rankings. Read more September 13, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Product Placebo - Using the Placebo Effect to Improve Consumer Experience Featuring Aaron Hackett In this Lunchtime Live session, Product Placebo - Using the Placebo Effect to Improve Consumer Experience, Aaron will discuss how the placebo effect can improve the consumer experience and how to resolve the perception of a product using common marketing cues we all value. Read more September 08, 2021 Three Scheller College of Business Graduates of the Inclusive Leaders Academy Reflect on Their Experience Three Scheller College of Business staff members recently graduated from the Inclusive Leaders Academy, a professional leadership and legacy development program for managers at Georgia Tech. Read more September 01, 2021 Scheller Lunchtime Live: Work, Racial Equity, and Wellness Featuring Tiffany Johnson In this Scheller Lunchtime Live session, Dr. Tiffany Johnson discusses the connection between diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace and how to foster well-being, especially among those that have historically been held at disparity. Read more August 26, 2021 14 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Awarded Forté MBA Fellowship for Women The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has awarded the Forté MBA Fellowship to 14 of the best and brightest women in the Full-time MBA program. These fellowships provide resources for students while they pursue internships, post-MBA employment, and career goals. Read more August 19, 2021 Midtown Atlanta’s Tech Square: 20 Years of Impact at the Intersection of Business, Technology, and Innovation Georgia Tech celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Tech Square groundbreaking including its rich history and the future of innovation and collaboration. Read more August 12, 2021 Annie Y. Lai Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Executive MBA Scheller College graduate Annie Y. Lai is one of Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest for Executive MBA. Read more August 12, 2021 William Todd Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Executive MBA Scheller College graduate William Todd is one of Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest for Executive MBA. Read more August 09, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Recognized Again as a Top Tech Industry Feeder The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business came in No. 4 on the Poets&Quants list of top tech industry feeders. Read more August 03, 2021 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business contributes “beyond carbon” perspectives to National Academy publication Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business contributes “beyond carbon” perspectives to National Academy publication Read more July 16, 2021 A Nurturing Ground for Startups and Founders: Creative Destruction Lab at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Meet the Creative Destruction Lab, a nurturing ground for startups and founders at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more July 14, 2021 Fortune Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller Top 25 in the U.S. in Best MBA Programs Ranking The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business ranks top 25 in Fortune’s first ever Best MBA Programs ranking. Read more July 06, 2021 Sachin Suresh Pai Selected as a Poets&Quants 2021 MBA to Watch Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA alumnus Sachin Suresh Pai has been named a Poets&Quants 2021 MBA to Watch. Read more July 01, 2021 Abby Brenller Named a Poets&Quants 2021 MBA to Watch Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA alumna Abby Brenller has been selected by Poets&Quants as a 2021 MBA to Watch. Read more June 30, 2021 Telling the Story Behind Data: Executive MBA Alumnus Cornelius Cook Joins S&P Global Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA alum Cornelius Cook is using the lessons he learned during his MBA to lead at his new job with S&P Global. Read more June 23, 2021 How Do Local Resources Drive Innovation in Emerging Technologies? Using statistical analysis and historical investigation, the study examines advances in the early days of the aviation industry to better understand how technology adoption in a geographical region drives local innovation. Read more June 22, 2021 Scheller College of Business Faculty Receive MSOM Society Recognition for Sustainability Research On June 8, 2021, Scheller College of Business faculty Morvarid Rahmani, Karthik Ramachandran, and Beril Toktay, and their former PhD student collaborators Priyank Arora and Can Zhang, were recognized for their sustainability-related research at the 2021 Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Virtual Conference. Read more June 22, 2021 Scheller Pride: The Origins and Hopes of Georgia Tech Scheller’s LGBTQIA+ Club Learn about the origins of Scheller Pride, a student-led club created by MBA alum Alex Ortiz, and the plans current president Angel Daniels has for its future. Read more June 16, 2021 The Business of Space: Georgia Tech MBA Alum Luke Walker and the Mars Perseverance Mission Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alumnus Luke Walker talks about being a flight systems engineer on NASA’s Mars Perseverance mission and how he uses the business lessons he learned in his current position. Read more June 15, 2021 Blooming in a New Direction: Executive MBA Alum Lauren Oyster’s Journey From CFP to Plant and Flower Delivery Founder Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA alumna Lauren Oyster utilized the lessons she learned in the program to launch her new company Bloomly. Read more June 11, 2021 Highlights from the Spring 2021 Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business launched the Business, Environment, and Society Speaker Series in 2016 to develop and strengthen the network of sustainability-minded students, faculty, staff, practitioners, and community members. Hosting the series is just one way in which the Center serves as a connector and catalyst across diverse stakeholders in an effort to create more sustainable communities. Through informative talks, lively Q&As, and illuminating interviews, the series opens the lines of communication between current and future changemakers. Read more June 04, 2021 Poets&Quants: Meet Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Class Of 2022 Poets&Quants talked with 12 of Georgia Tech Scheller's Full-time MBA students about why they chose Scheller and how the first year of the program went for them. Read more June 03, 2021 From L.A. to Boise: How Migration Has Changed During the Covid-19 Pandemic A recent study finds Americans are moving during the pandemic at a growing rate because of lifestyle changes, remote working conditions, and job opportunities. Read more June 02, 2021 James Reid, Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Alum, is Connecting the Dots as the First Black CIO of JPMorgan Chase & Co. James Reid, a Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA alumnus, was named the first Black CIO at JPMorgan Chase & Co. He is leading the new employee experience and corporate technology organization. Read more June 01, 2021 Poets&Quants: 10 Reasons to Consider the Scheller MBA In Poets&Quant’s Meet Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Class of 2022 feature, the publication included a list of 10 reasons to consider a Georgia Tech Scheller MBA. Read more June 01, 2021 ‘Dreams Like This Are Possible at Georgia Tech’: Meet Executive MBA Alum and Entrepreneur Rebekah Vepraskas Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA alumna and counseling professional Rebekah Vepraskas discusses the motivation, challenges, and rewards of going back to school for an MBA and her entrepreneurial work helping CEOs and athletes achieve peak performance. Read more May 25, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA Kevin Chan Wins Second Place in Global Capsim Challenge Kevin Chan, Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA student, placed second in the Capsim Challenge, an international business simulation competition with participants from 22 countries and six continents. Read more May 25, 2021 The Secret Ingredients in Netflix’s Success Story Professor Ajay Kohli of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business publishes a paper on Netflix and its journey of success from a small start-up turned giant in the content production and streaming industry. Read more May 24, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Sudheer Chava Appointed to New Federal Reserve Bank Committee on Payments Inclusion Professor Sudheer Chava of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is a part of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta’s newly formed Special Committee on Payments Inclusion. Read more May 19, 2021 How to Identify and Change Bias in AI Development and Application Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Deven Desai explores how to combat language bias in AI development in his article for the MIT Sloan Management Review. Read more May 17, 2021 'Why Now?': Ben McCormack's Scheller Executive MBA Bound Story Incoming Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA student Ben McCormack recently wrote a blog post detailing his decision on why he decided to go back to business school. Read more May 12, 2021 Amanda Grupp Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest MBA Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA graduate Amanda Grupp has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest MBA. Read more May 12, 2021 Marcus Harmon Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest MBA Georgia Tech Scheller Full-time MBA graduate Marcus Harmon has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest MBA. Read more May 12, 2021 Scheller Faculty Ideas Featuring Deven Desai: Why We Need to Build a Virus Early Warning System Georgia Tech Scheller faculty member Deven Desai suggests a Virus Early Warning System (EWS) may be what is needed to prevent large-scale pandemics in the future, according to his op-ed in The Hill. Read more May 10, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces “Finance and Accounting for Non-Financial Managers” Executive Education Course The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is offering a new “Finance and Accounting for Non-Financial Managers” course starting in September. Read more May 07, 2021 Five Lessons From Four Years at Scheller: Reflections From Ally Nastasi Ally Nastasi reflects on her four years as a Scheller undergraduate student. Read more May 06, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Anna Katherine Cates As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Anna Katherine Cates. Read more May 06, 2021 Why I Give Back to Scheller: Reconnecting with MBA Alumna Jasmine Howard Class of 2020 MBA alumna Jasmine Howard shares her story around transitioning from MBA to full-time employee during the Covid-19 pandemic, how she remains connected to the Scheller community, and the importance of giving back. Read more May 05, 2021 A Day in the Life of Executive MBA Student Mary Arfeli Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA student Mary Arfeli walks us through a typical class weekend and discusses the challenges and rewards of earning her degree during a pandemic. Read more May 05, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Sam Gill As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Sam Gill. Read more May 04, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Brett Broughton As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Brett Broughton. Read more April 29, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Ally Nastasi As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Ally Nastasi. Read more April 29, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Avielle Krug As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Avielle Krug. Read more April 28, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Discussion with Paul Brown, CEO of Inspire Brands Dean Maryam Alavi hosted a virtual conversation with Paul Brown, CEO of Inspire Brands, discussing his personal career journey and how technology will impact the future of business. Read more April 27, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Executive Education Welcomes Trent Thurman as Associate Dean Trent Thurman has had a robust career in higher education and joins the Scheller College of Business as the new associate dean of Executive Education on May 1. Read more April 23, 2021 Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business: Scheller MBA Clubs Discuss Allyship The Blacks in Business, Net Impact, and Women in Business MBA clubs at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business cohosted an event on allyship where groups discussed submitted student experiences. Read more April 22, 2021 12th Annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition Drives Discovery and Solutions with Social Impact The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business announces the 12th annual Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition winners for 2021. Read more April 21, 2021 Borrowing on Online Lending Platforms May Increase Consumer Bankruptcies Online lending platforms may have negative financial consequences for some consumers, according to research from Georgia Tech Scheller faculty Sudheer Chava and Eric Overby. Read more April 21, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Grant Lin As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Grant Lin. Read more April 21, 2021 Creating the Sustainable Business Leaders of Tomorrow: Meet the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is determined to make a difference in corporate sustainability through curriculum, partnerships, and outreach. Read more April 20, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Erica Barker As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Erica Barker. Read more April 19, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Natalie Mack As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Natalie Mack. Read more April 15, 2021 A Day in the Life of a First-Year MBA: Luis Trejo From in-person and virtual class to interview prep, career workshops to case write-ups – Come along for a day in the life of first-year MBA student Luis Trejo. Read more April 14, 2021 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Irene Dong As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Irene Dong. Read more April 12, 2021 What Makes a Leader Effective? It’s About Power Motive, New Research Finds Scheller College faculty Terry Blum publishes paper on the different types of power motives and how it shapes leaders. Read more April 09, 2021 13th Annual Honors Day Award Recipients The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business virtually commemorates its 13th annual Honor’s Day, celebrating students, faculty, and staff for their outstanding achievements and benefactors for their continued generosity. Read more April 02, 2021 Eyes of the Future: Georgia Tech Scheller Alumna LaVonda Brown Makes Roads Safer with New Tech Startup Georgia Tech Evening MBA alumna Dr. LaVonda Brown launches $100,000 crowdfunding campaign for her tech startup EyeGage, a mobile application designed to make roads safer. Read more April 01, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Students Beautify Atlanta During Scheller Day of Service Georgia Tech Scheller MBA students spent the first day of spring giving their time to the Frazer Center, the BeltLine, and Truly Living Well for the Scheller Day of Service. Read more March 31, 2021 Jake DiBenedetto Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Business Major Georgia Tech Scheller Undergraduate Jake DiBenedetto has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest Business Major. Read more March 31, 2021 The Impact of the Scheller MBA Annual Fund: Meet Katherine Crosby and Akshay Verma The Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Annual Fund enables MBA students like Katherine Crosby and Akshay Verma to make an impact in ways that would otherwise not be possible. Read more March 30, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranks Top 10 in the U.S. for Business Analytics, Information Systems, Operations, and Supply Chain The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business ranks top 10 in business analytics, information systems, operations, and supply chain MBA specialties, according to U.S. News & World Report Best Business Schools rankings. Read more March 29, 2021 Devika Dutt Named Poets&Quants 2021 Best & Brightest Business Major Georgia Tech Scheller Undergraduate Devika Dutt has been selected as a 2021 Poets&Quants Best & Brightest Business Major. Read more March 25, 2021 Breaking Barriers: Meet the First Women of Scheller Learn about the first woman dean, PhD graduate, and GBC president of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and how they broke barriers to pave the way for current students. Read more March 22, 2021 Choose to Challenge: Three Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Alumnae and Their Leadership Journeys Three Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alumnae who have risen the ranks in the traditionally male-dominated industries share their perspective on the lessons they’ve learned. Read more March 20, 2021 Georgia Tech MBA Marketing Club Hosts Annual Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted its annual Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller, bringing together marketers for a virtual discussion about innovation in turbulent times. Read more March 19, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces “Financial Modeling in Excel” Executive Education Course The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business offers new course “Financial Modeling in Excel” starting in June. Read more March 17, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Pro Bono Consulting Practicum Expands Social Impact As a part of Georgia Tech Scheller’s pro bono consulting practicum, MBA students have the opportunity to do impactful work with mission-driven organizations, like Project Greer Street. Read more March 16, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Community Gathers Virtually for Third Annual International Women’s Day Brunch In celebration of International Women’s Day, women and allies in the Georgia Tech Scheller MBA community gathered for a virtual event about board engagement. Read more March 12, 2021 When Do Public Supplier Lists Improve Profits and Sustainability Goals? This study showed that under certain conditions, a firm’s commitment to publishing a list of approved suppliers motivates suppliers to work towards eliminating safety, environmental, or other responsibility violations. Read more March 10, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Wins Third Place in Goodyear Design Innovation Case Competition A team of four MBA students from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business have placed third in the Goodyear Design Innovation Case Competition. Read more March 09, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces “The Art of Negotiation in a Face-to-Face and Virtual World” Executive Education Course The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business offers a new course in “The Art of Negotiation in a Face-to-Face and Virtual World” starting in May. Read more March 08, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Discussion on Women and Leadership with Carol Tomé, CEO of UPS In honor of Women’s History Month, Dean Maryam Alavi of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted a discussion with Carol Tomé, CEO of UPS, on leadership and people empowerment. Read more March 08, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s Evening MBA Program Enrolls Largest Ever Number of Women in an Academic Year The Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA program has made history by enrolling the largest number of women ever in a single academic year. Read more March 08, 2021 How a Passion for Problem Solving Put Two Women on the Path to Business Analytics Success: An Interview with Rachel Wiseley and June Sloan, Two Top Business Analytics Scheller Graduates Rachel Wiseley and June Sloan discuss the choices that led to Scheller, Slalom, and business analytics succcess. Read more March 04, 2021 The Unintended Labor Scheduling Implications of Minimum Wage: Research from Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu pioneers research suggesting that an increase in minimum wage may have labor scheduling implications that negatively affect workers. Read more March 02, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller’s CIBER Hosts First C-Suite Series Talk Featuring Christian Fischer, President and CEO of Georgia-Pacific Georgia Tech Scheller’s Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER) kicks off its C-Suite Series with a talk featuring Christian Fischer, president and CEO of Georgia-Pacific. Read more February 26, 2021 The René A. Simon Fellowship: Georgia Tech Scheller Alumnus Funds Support for MBA Students Who Serve Georgia Tech Scheller MBA alumnus René A. Simon has created a fellowship to support MBA students who exemplify service excellence, particularly those who participate in the Scheller Blacks in Business Club. Read more February 25, 2021 ISyE's Morgan Knowlton Receives Top Academic Honor from the University System of Georgia Industrial Engineering student, Morgan Knowlton, a Scheller College student in the Denning Technology & Management Program receives top academic honor from the University System of Georgia. Read more February 23, 2021 Six Things to Consider When Choosing an Undergrad Business School: Reflections From Ally Nastasi Ally Nastasi shares her advice to high school students about how to find the business school that is right for them. Read more February 18, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Grad Rachel Langston: One of Only Three Women to be Buzz, the Georgia Tech Mascot Georgia Tech Scheller graduate Rachel Langston (BSBA ’20) talks about what it was like to be Buzz, Georgia Tech’s official mascot, for over two years – one of only three women who have fulfilled the role. Read more February 15, 2021 Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Annual Georgia Tech Scheller Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Panel The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business brought together D&I leaders from Delta Air Lines, The Home Depot, and UPS for its annual Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Panel. Read more February 10, 2021 Scheller-brate Love: Meet the Georgia Tech Scheller Couples Who Navigated Their MBAs…Together Four Georgia Tech Scheller MBA couples talk about what it’s like going through the same MBA program as their spouse and what they enjoyed most about the experience. Read more February 09, 2021 Amazon’s Transition from Jeff Bezos to Andy Jassy: Three Perspectives from Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Narayanan Jayaraman Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Narayanan Jayaraman weighs in on the transition in leadership at Amazon, presenting three different research lenses from which to examine the change. Read more February 08, 2021 GameStop, the Little Guy, and Wall Street: Georgia Tech Scheller Faculty Weigh In On What’s Really Going On Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Faculty Jonathan Clarke and Robbie Moon discuss GameStop and what it means for the future of Wall Street, hedge funds, short sellers, and the average person. Read more February 08, 2021 The Financial Times Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Career Services No. 2 in the World Georgia Tech Scheller ranks No. 2 in the world for Full-time MBA career services, according to the Financial Times 2021 Global MBA Ranking. Read more February 03, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Named Top 10 Undergraduate Business School to Watch by Poets&Quants The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has been named one of Poets&Quants’ Top 10 Undergraduate Business School to Watch in 2021. Scheller receives kudos for producing the “happiest graduates,” with alumni giving their alma mater the highest composite score in a survey given to Class of 2018 alumni from 93 U.S. business schools. Read more February 01, 2021 Community, Empowerment, and a Safe Space: The Story of Georgia Tech Scheller’s Blacks in Business Club Learn about the beginnings of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Blacks in Business club and the impact it’s had in cultivating community and important conversations over the last five years. Read more January 25, 2021 From Atlanta to Shanghai: How Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Alum Michael Liss Built a Career Abroad Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA (EMBA) alumnus Michael Liss always wanted to live and work internationally and through the experience he gained in the EMBA program, he was able to achieve his goal and currently lives in Shanghai, China. Read more January 13, 2021 Honoring Martin Luther King Jr. Day: Perspectives From the Georgia Tech Scheller Community Georgia Tech Scheller students, faculty, staff, and alumni share what Martin Luther King Jr. Day means to them, the traditions they observe, and how they plan on celebrating this year. Read more January 12, 2021 Georgia Tech Scheller Breaks Into Top 10 in the U.S. in 2021 Poets&Quants Undergraduate Business Schools Ranking The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Undergraduate program jumped up four spots, from No. 14 to No. 10, in the 2021 Poets&Quants’ Best Undergraduate Business Schools ranking. Read more January 06, 2021 Georgia Tech Launches New Female Founders Program Learn about Georgia Tech’s new Female Founders Program, and the role Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA student Amanda Grupp played in launching it. Read more December 18, 2020 Forging a Career at the Intersection of Sustainability and Energy: A Conversation with Microsoft’s Mark Jacobson (MBA ’18) Michael Oxman speaks with Mark Jacobson (MBA ’18), an energy project manager for Microsoft’s data center and energy sustainability team. Mark shares his career trajectory, thoughts on the intersection of sustainability and the energy sector, and advice for students looking to incorporate their passion for sustainability into their careers. Read more December 18, 2020 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2020-21 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2020-21 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. This year, 25 graduate and 14 undergraduate students will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more December 17, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA Students Give Back to Latino Community Through Pro Bono Consulting with Atlanta’s LaAmistad Learn how Georgia Tech Scheller Evening MBA students give back through their pro bono consulting practicum with LaAmistad, a non-profit organization helping the Latino community in Atlanta. Read more December 17, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces Online Lean Six Sigma Certification Programs The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business will begin offering online Lean Six Sigma certification programs beginning in Spring 2021 for individuals and organizations interested in streamlining operations, decreasing waste, and increasing employee engagement. Read more December 15, 2020 Scheller Faculty Ideas Featuring Peter Swire: Geopolitical Implications of the European Court’s Schrems II Decision Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Peter Swire provides an overview of the ongoing legal challenges of cross-border data exchanges between the U.S and EU, including the implications for business and cybersecurity entities. Read more December 15, 2020 Takeaways From the First Semester of My MBA During Covid-19: Reflections From Luis Trejo Georgia Tech Scheller first-year Full-time MBA student Luis Trejo reflects on the lessons he learned during his first semester of his MBA. Read more December 10, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Jennifer Sei As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Jennifer Sei. Read more December 08, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Peter Swire Testifies Before Congress on the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Ruling and the Future of Transatlantic Data Flow Scheller professor Peter Swire is asked to testify in front of the Senate Committee on Science, Commerce, and Transportation on the recent ruling on Privacy Shield and the future of U.S.-EU Data exchange. Read more December 08, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Ranked Top 25 in the U.S. by Poets&Quants The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA program is ranked top 10 among public institutions and top 25 overall in the U.S by Poets&Quants. Read more December 08, 2020 How Scheller Undergrad Peyton O’Malley Secured Not One, But Two Internships Using LinkedIn Scheller undergraduate student Peyton O’Malley harnessed the power of grit and resilience coupled with LinkedIn to help secure not one, but two summer internships. Read more December 07, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Kirtan Parekh As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Kirtan Parekh. Read more December 03, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Louis Hou As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Louis Hou. Read more December 01, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Jenny Choi As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Jenny Choi. Read more November 30, 2020 Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts Conversation on Racial Justice with Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion’s Pearl Alexander Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi hosts a conversation with Pearl Alexander, executive director of Diversity, Inclusion, and Engagement at Georgia Tech. Read more November 24, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Jonathan Jones As part of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller, and what they plan to do after the Fall 2020 commencement. Read more November 23, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Ronnie Ludwin As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Ronnie Ludwin. Read more November 20, 2020 Georgia Tech Pledges Progress and Service for All in New 10-Year Strategic Plan The Georgia Institute of Technology publishes a new 10-year Strategic Plan with Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi participating in the one-year planning and development phase as co-chair of the Strategic Planning Task Force. Read more November 19, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Sarah Boger As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Sarah Boger. Read more November 18, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Kicks Off Commerce Stream at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business CDL-Atlanta, in partnership with the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, launched the first session of its Commerce stream, bringing together a community of experienced mentors and scientists to help founders of massively scalable science-and tech-based companies move from the lab to the market. Read more November 18, 2020 Scheller Faculty Ideas Featuring Deven Desai: Beyond the ‘American Summer’ - 8 Steps to Deliver on the American Promise Scheller faculty member Deven Desai provides eight steps to show that democracy is alive while the U.S. participates in the “American revolution” of societal change. Read more November 17, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Rachel Luckcuck As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Rachel Luckcuck. Read more November 17, 2020 The Benefits of a Lean Six Sigma Certification for Individuals and Companies Read how a Lean Six Sigma certification can build up your resume as a leader and expert and position you to lead teams focused on advancing a company’s success. Read more November 16, 2020 How Algorithm-Driven Scheduling Can Hurt Profitability: Research from Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu Findings from Research Conducted by Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu Finds Changing Employee Schedules Affects Revenue and Employee Performance at Work and Home Read more November 13, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Barrett Kulik As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Barrett Kulik. Read more November 11, 2020 Countdown to Commencement: Meet Undergraduate Avery Silva As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate program to learn about them. Meet Avery Silva. Read more November 10, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College Ranks Top Five in Sustainability Education Six Years in a Row Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Ranks No. 4 in the 2020 Better World MBA Ranking by Corporate Knights. Read more November 09, 2020 Increasing the Success of Virtual Queues: Research from Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Qiuping Yu publishes research on virtual queues, showing when providing wait time estimates, it pays to under-promise and over-deliver. Read more November 09, 2020 From the U.S. Army to the Georgia Tech MBA Classroom: Meet Marcus Harmon and Jarrod Snell, Veterans Dedicated to Building the Scheller Community U.S. Army veterans Marcus Harmon and Jarrod Snell talk about their military experiences, the paths they took to Georgia Tech Scheller, and the community they’ve nurtured in the MBA program. Read more November 05, 2020 Creating and Sustaining D&I Programs in Organizations: Three Pieces of Advice from Lori George Billingsley, Coca-Cola’s Chief D&I Officer Georgia Tech Scheller’s Dean Maryam Alavi speaks with Lori George Billingsley about Coca-Cola’s diversity and inclusion initiatives and how individuals and companies can follow their lead. Read more November 02, 2020 Make an Impact: Key Action Items From the Scheller Impact Speaker Series on Race, Social Justice, and Diversity & Inclusion The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact hosted their Impact Speaker Series centered on anti-racism, social justice, diversity, equity, and inclusion. Read the calls to action provided from these panel discussions. Read more November 02, 2020 Tiktok: Georgia Tech Scheller Faculty Weigh in on Data Privacy, Commercialization, and Politicization of 2020’s Most Downloaded App Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business professors Tim Halloran and Deven Desai weigh in on TikTok and its future as a social media app and data collector. Read more October 27, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Forms Diversity & Inclusion Council The Georgia Tech Scheller College Diversity & Inclusion Council has been created to foster organizational change and create equal access to opportunities for educational and professional growth and advancement. Read more October 21, 2020 Three Reasons Georgia Tech Scheller Is Ranked No. 1 in Business Analytics U.S. News & World Report ranks Scheller’s undergraduate and graduate business analytics programs No. 1 among public universities and No. 3 overall in the nation. Here are three reasons why. Read more October 15, 2020 From Bobby Dodd Stadium to the Scheller MBA Classroom: Georgia Tech Football Players Reflect on their MBA Journeys In the spirit of Georgia Tech Homecoming, we talked to a few former Georgia Tech football players who are a part of Scheller’s MBA programs about their MBA journeys. Read more October 14, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi Hosts a Conversation with Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta Air Lines Dean Maryam Alavi speaks with Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta, about the company’s plan for the future, air travel in a post-Covid world, and racial equity. Read more October 13, 2020 Scheller College of Business Advisory Board Welcomes Seven New Members Seven new corporate leaders join Scheller’s Advisory Board Read more October 13, 2020 What is Civic Innovation? Four Strategies for Contributing to a More Equitable Society Civic innovation. It’s a concept that is gaining increased relevance as our society recognizes the fact that all citizens can and should be empowered to be problem solvers. Civic innovation elevates community-driven ideas and solutions to address inequality and build trust in the public sector. And it’s a mindset each of us can engage in. Read more October 12, 2020 Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Hosts Conversation on Criminal Justice Reform, Racial Disparities, and Bipartisanship The Scheller College of Business Institute for Leadership and Social Impact hosted a discussion on Georgia’s new criminal justice reform bill, racial disparities in the criminal justice system, and how bipartisanship can make a difference in the Read more October 09, 2020 Sailing to Success: Meet Eric Frey, a Poets&Quants First-Generation MBA Eric Frey is a second-year Scheller Full-time MBA student, Double Jacket, and Poets&Quants First Generation MBA. Read more October 06, 2020 Questions to Ask Yourself When Considering an MBA: Reflections by Luis Trejo First-year Full-time MBA student Luis Trejo offers insight into what questions he reflected on at the beginning of his MBA journey. Read more October 02, 2020 A Problem Solver, Storyteller, and Netflix Actor: Meet Grace Stewart, a Poets&Quants First-Generation MBA Grace Stewart, a Georgia Tech Scheller first-year Full-time MBA student, is a first-generation college student with experience in storytelling and entertainment. She has been profiled by Poets&Quants as a part of their First-Generation MBA series. Read more September 30, 2020 Meet Anik Khan: Scheller Alum and FinTech Entrepreneur Meet Anik Khan. From a young entrepreneur to a successful Scheller graduate and fintech founder, Anik talks about his journey in the lastest episode of the Intersection podcast. Read more September 29, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller’s MBA Programs Make Tremendous Strides in Diversity of Fall 2020 Cohorts Georgia Tech Scheller’s incoming MBA students bring expertise and experience that spans a variety of industry, educational, and cultural backgrounds. Read more September 24, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller Professor Tiffany Johnson’s New MBA Class on Work, Equity, and Wellness Associate Professor Tiffany Johnson is a new Georgia Tech Diversity & Inclusion Fellow - one of three at Scheller accepted into the program. She will undertake a project examining equity and diversity in organizations with the mind-body connection of the individual as part of a course she’ll teach in Summer 2021 for MBA students titled “Work, Equity, and Wellness.” Read more September 24, 2020 King & Spalding Joins Georgia Tech Scheller Business Analytics Center’s Executive Council King & Spalding, an international law firm founded in Atlanta, announced today that it is joining the Executive Council of the Business Analytics Center (BAC) at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. They join other global industry leaders including The Coca-Cola Company, The Home Depot, AT&T, NCR, UPS, and thyssenkrupp Elevator. Read more September 23, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller MBA Joshua Burr Explores Tools for Men to ‘Lean In’ for Workplace Gender Equity Full-time MBA student, Joshua Burr is a new Georgia Tech Diversity & Inclusion Fellow - one of three at Scheller accepted into the program. He wants to create a way for people, in particular men, to understand and recognize issues facing women in the workplace. Read more September 22, 2020 2020 – 2021 Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellow: Scheller Undergraduate Hannah Sherrill Explores Expanding Women’s Roles in Team Building Scheller undergrad student Hannah Sherrill named a Georgia Tech 2020-2021 Diversity & Inclusion Fellow. Over the course of a year, she'll be studying team building environments to help women's organizations across the campus. Read more September 21, 2020 Three Scheller Community Members Chosen as Institute Diversity and Inclusion Fellows Institute Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (IDEI) and the ADVANCE program at Georgia Tech have announced the 2021 - 2021 Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Program Fellows and three members of the Scheller College of Business community have been chosen out of 150 applicants. Read more September 18, 2020 The First Month of my MBA During Covid-19: Reflections from Luis Trejo First-year Full-time MBA student, Luis Trejo, reflects on beginning his MBA experience during the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more September 17, 2020 “Ask the question: ‘Who’s missing?’”: A Conversation with Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum, an award-winning educational leader, best-selling author, and noted expert on the psychology of racism recently talked with Dean Maryam Alavi of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business on the themes of prejudice, racism, discrimination, and racial bias. Read more September 16, 2020 Scheller College of Business to Host 2020 Journal of Investment Management (JOIM) Conference Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business will host the 2020 Journal of Investment Management (JOIM) Conference on October 5 to 7. Scheller College professor of Finance Sudheer Chava will be one of the presenters. Read more September 15, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Introduces GMAT/GRE Test-Optional Policy for Fall 2021 Admissions The Full-time MBA program at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business will pilot a GMAT/GRE test optional admission process for Fall 2021 enrollment. Read more September 14, 2020 Scheller College of Business Breaks into the Top 20 U.S. News & World Report Undergraduate Programs U.S. News and World Report recently released its 2021 Best Colleges rankings and the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business undergraduate program has broken into the top 20 in the U.S., jumping three spots from the previous year to No. 19 in the nation. Read more September 04, 2020 Scheller Faculty Ideas Featuring David Sluss: Becoming a More Patient Leader David Sluss, Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recently published an article in the Harvard Business Review titled “Becoming a More Patient Leader.” Read about his strategies. Read more September 01, 2020 Virtual MBA Open House: October 6-8 Gain an insider's perspective on Georgia Tech Scheller's Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs at our Virtual Open House from October 6 to 8. Read more August 31, 2020 From Music to Management: Meet Darius Broughton of Scheller’s Executive MBA Program While Darius Broughton’s life story began with music, he is currently a project manager on some of the largest construction projects in his hometown city of Atlanta. Read more August 31, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller Professor Peter Swire Named to National Academies Study on Future of Encryption The National Academies of Science and Engineering has named Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Peter Swire to a new study committee on “The Future of Encryption." Read more August 27, 2020 Scheller College of Business Dean’s Office and Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Partner to Host Fall 2020 Conversations on Race, Equity, and Inclusion Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi and the Diversity & Inclusion Speaker Series is partnering with the Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (ILSI) to host an impressive line-up of speakers who will center their discussion around race, social justice, equity, and inclusion. The series runs from September to November and is open to the public. Read more August 26, 2020 How to Build and Maintain Your Resilience Through Difficult Times: Four Strategies from Dr. Beth Cabrera Dr. Beth Cabrera, First Lady of Georgia Tech spoke to Scheller MBA students and offers four strategies for building resilience to help get through difficult times. Read more August 26, 2020 Scheller College of Business Recognized for Big Climb in Poets&Quants MBA Rankings Over Past 10 Years Of the 30 schools that have improved their Poets&Quants best MBA school rankings position by at least 10 places over the past decade, Scheller College is one of only two schools that has broken into the top 30. Read more August 18, 2020 Back to Business: Meet Three Incoming Scheller Full-time MBA Students Meet three of the Scheller Full-time MBA program’s incoming students with global experience and backgrounds in construction, consulting, and aerospace. Read more August 13, 2020 The Resilience of Scheller Graduates in a Covid-19 Job Market Despite the volatile career landscape during the Covid-19 pandemic, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business undergraduate and MBA graduates have displayed a high level of resilience in the job market. Read more August 12, 2020 From Allies to Change Agents: Scheller MBA Alumnae Answer Four Key Questions in the Fight for Sustainable Racial Equity The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) recently held a panel discussion around the role individuals and communities have in the fight for racial equity and social justice. The conversation centered around ways individuals can elevate their levels of engagement—in conversation, in protest, and in advocacy. Read more August 06, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Recognized as a Top Consulting Industry Feeder Poets&Quants just published a list of the top 35 schools in the U.S. and Europe for percentage of consulting industry hires. The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA program came in at 16th overall and 3rd among public institutions, with 31% of grads going into the industry at a median base salary of $140,000. Read more August 06, 2020 Learning and Leading: Meet Cornelius Cook, Poet&Quants 2020 Best & Brightest EMBA Cornelius Cook’s eagerness to learn and share his own knowledge has landed him on Poets & Quants 2020 Best & Brightest EMBA list. Read more August 05, 2020 Creating Tech Solutions to Fight Covid-19: The Real-World Impact of Scheller College’s CDL-Atlanta and TI:GER Global Technology Innovation Practicum At the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, practicums are a vital way for students to gain in-depth knowledge and insights into real-world issues. Scheller College’s TI:GER (Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results) program offers a Global Technology Innovation Practicum that is uniquely positioned to provide students with hands-on experience in tech innovation and strategy to help solve the most pressing problems companies face. Read more August 04, 2020 Career Search and Strategy During Covid-19: Five Tips from Scheller MBA Alumni Four Scheller College of Business MBA alumni share advice on career search strategies, industry outlooks and perspectives, and the current economic downturn during Covid-19 at a recent Lifelong Learning Speakers series event. Read more July 31, 2020 Creating Value for the Greater Good: Meet Jesse Breidinger, Poet&Quants 2020 Best & Brightest EMBA Jesse Breidinger’s determination to make the world a better place has landed her on the Poets & Quants 2020 Best & Brightest EMBAs list. Read more July 28, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller MBA Recognized as a Top Tech Industry Feeder Scheller College of Business came in at 12th overall on Poets&Quants list of Top Tech Industry Feeders. Read more July 28, 2020 Scheller Faculty Ideas Featuring Deven Desai: Why We Need a G.I. Bill for the Covid Era Scheller College of Business professor Deven Desai and co-writer Christos A. Makridis recently wrote an op-ed piece in The Hill on why creating a "G.I. Bill" for Covid-19 is a good idea. Read more July 23, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Cheng He, PhD Student in Marketing As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our doctoral program to learn about their backgrounds. Meet Cheng He. Read more July 22, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Launches Newest Stream: CDL Commerce CDL-Atlanta, a nonprofit organization based at Georgia Tech that delivers an objectives-based program for science- and technology-based companies, announces a new program focused on innovative technologies with the potential to disrupt online and offline retail. Read more July 17, 2020 Eight Scheller Community Members Honored in 2020 Georgia Tech Alumni Association 40 Under 40 Eight members of the Scheller College of Business community made the list of 40 distinguished honorees in the Georgia Tech Alumni Association’s inaugural "40 under 40" list. Read more July 17, 2020 Kate Groce: Denning Technology & Management Program Class of 2021 Student of the Year Kate Groce, a rising fourth-year student in Literature, Media, and Communication, has been named Class of 2021 Student of the Year by the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program in the Scheller College of Business. Read more July 16, 2020 Georgia Tech Ranks in Top 10 for Supply Chain Management Programs According to New Gartner Research Gartner just published its rankings of the top 25 supply chain management programs in the U.S. for 2020 and Georgia Tech’s MBA and undergraduate programs ranked in the top 10 with the MBA program placing no. 3 and the undergraduate program placing no. 10 out of 67 universities in the U.S. and Canada. Read more July 16, 2020 Tracking the Effects of Covid-19 on Georgia’s Economy: New Public Access Data Portal Created by Georgia Tech Scheller Students and Faculty Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business students and collaborators create new website to track Georgia's economy in the midst of Covid-19. Read more July 10, 2020 Right-to-Work Laws Establish Lower Wages and Union Bargaining Power in Latest Study by Scheller College of Business Faculty Three Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty publish paper on Right-to-Work laws and collective bargaining agreements in the Journal of Financial Economics. Read more July 08, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Nikhil Paradkar, PhD Student in Finance As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our doctoral program to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and their advice for individuals interested in an academic career. Meet Nikhil Paradkar. Read more July 07, 2020 WSB-TV Interviews Professor Timothy Halloran on Impact of Facebook Ad Pulls by Large Companies In an interview with WSB-TV, Dr. Timothy Halloran, senior lecturer of Marketing at Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business discussed the impact of corporate ads pulled from Facebook on companies, consumers, and the social media giant. Read more July 06, 2020 Five Ways Higher Education Institutions Can Fight the Effects of Racial Inequality Learn how higher ed can fight the impacts of racial inequality from Dr. Tiffany Hughes-Troutman, licensed psychologist and Director of CARE at Georgia Tech. Read more July 01, 2020 From MD/MBA to CREATE-X: Candice Blacknall and Chima Odinkemere Give Back Through Innovation MD/MBA students Candice Blacknall and Chima Odinkemere have been accepted into Georgia Tech’s CREATE-X program to work on their educational tech company GABA. Read more June 29, 2020 Leading During Covid-19: Four Tips from Scheller Executive MBA Alumni Alumni of the Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program share their thoughts, experiences, and advice on leading during the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more June 25, 2020 Why Should Georgia Tech PhD Students Get Involved with TI:GER? Are you a PhD candidate working on a research project with commercialization potential? Learn how Scheller College of Business' TI:GER program can turn your innovative technology research into economic results. Read more June 22, 2020 MBA Alumni Panel Addresses Integrating Personal Values in Professional Lives A panel of Scheller College of Business alumni hosted by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business revealed how employees can be true advocates for sustainability and allies to social justice causes in their professional lives. Read more June 18, 2020 Construction, Healthcare, Beverage, and More: The Diverse Industries of Scheller’s Incoming Evening MBA Class What kind of industry experience does this year’s incoming Scheller Evening MBA class have? Meet four students who will join the program this fall. Read more June 16, 2020 An Adventurer by Heart, Executive MBA Graduate Jonathan Colbert’s Newest Journey is to Silicon Valley An adventurer by heart, Executive MBA recent graduate Jonathan Colbert is heading west to Silicon Valley for a new chapter in his career. Read more June 15, 2020 Blais Hickey, Poets&Quants 2020 MBA to Watch, Continues her Mission for Sustainability at Nike An advocate for healthy lifestyles, responsible business practices, and collaborative problem-solving, Scheller Full-time MBA alumna Blais Hickey has also been named a 2020 MBA to Watch by Poets&Quants. Read more June 11, 2020 Entertainment, Finance, Theology, and the Military: Learn About the Unique Backgrounds of Scheller’s Incoming Full-time MBA Class What do a film society programming manager, a financial services rep, an MA candidate in culture/theology, and an Army captain have in common? All four will be starting their life-changing journey through the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA program this August. Read more June 03, 2020 Resources for Antiracism in Business, Leadership, and the Community The Scheller College of Business community has created a list of articles, books, videos, podcasts, and other resources in the fight against racism and discrimination. Learn how you can help. Read more May 29, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab Kicks Off Global Program to Address Global Crisis The Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) kicked off its new RECOVERY program yesterday which was conceived, designed, built, and launched in eight weeks to accelerate the world’s recovery from the COVID-19 crisis through information-based solutions. Read more May 28, 2020 Passion, Drive, and a Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion: Meet Nona Black, Poet’s & Quants 2020 MBA to Watch Nona Black (MBA 2020), a design-minded innovator whose dream is to spoil all the dogs in the world, worked right down the street from the Scheller College of Business for a year and a half before applying to the Full-time MBA program. Now, two years later, Black has graduated from Scheller with her Full-time MBA, will be joining Capgemini Invent as a Senior Consultant, and has been named a 2020 MBA to Watch by Poets & Quants. Read more May 21, 2020 Scheller Doctoral Student Chris Green Promoted to Lieutenant Colonel Scheller College of Business doctoral student Chris Green recently received a promotion from Major to Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army. The ceremony took place at Scheller College in front of faculty, staff, students and family members - a first for the College. Read more May 20, 2020 International travelers, tech gamechangers, and a Yellow Jackets quarterback: Meet the Scheller Executive MBA Class of 2021 Who exactly is an Executive MBA? Meet four of the Georgia Tech Executive MBA (EMBA) program’s incoming students, whose expertise spans the globe in a vast variety of industries and backgrounds. These four students will be starting their transformational 17-month EMBA experience at the Scheller College of Business this August. Read more May 19, 2020 How are Equity Valuations Affected by the COVID-19 Crisis Dr. Alex Hsu, professor of Finance has published a working paper on the impact of COVID-19 on equity valuations. Read more May 19, 2020 The Role of an EMBA During a Merger, Career Shift, and Covid-19: Perspectives from Alum Jon Michael Thomas Jon Michael Thomas’ EMBA degree has helped him through many work changes, including a merger, career shift, and response to Covid-19. Read more May 15, 2020 ‘Do the Right Thing’: Clorox VP and Scheller Alum Rick McDonald on the Fight Against COVID-19 The Clorox Company is one of the most important creators and suppliers of products to help combat COVID-19. Scheller alumni and VP of Global Operations Rick McDonald talks about the ways the company is doing more during the pandemic. Read more May 13, 2020 Four Scheller College of Business Faculty Receive Award for Excellence in Teaching Four Scheller College of Business Faculty Receive 2020 Georgia Institute of Technology Award for Excellence in Teaching. Read more May 11, 2020 Christian & Christian’s Journey from EMBA Classmates to Business Partners Some people believe in coincidences. Some people believe that everything happens for a reason. For Christian Hyatt and Christian White, 2016 Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) alums, they believe in serendipity. Read more May 06, 2020 Working on the Frontlines of a Pandemic While Attending Scheller: A Profile of Austin Lopeman Workers in the war against COVID-19 are tenacious, steadfast and resilient. Austin Lopeman, Georgia Tech Army ROTC Cadet, a veteran of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), and third-year Scheller undergraduate student is one of those behind-the-scenes workers. Read more May 05, 2020 New Practicum Pairs Georgia Tech Programs to Accelerate COVID-19 Solutions In the first educational offering of its kind, a new course titled Global Technology Innovation Practicum will build on the fundamentals of the TI:GER® (Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results) program while narrowing its focus to innovating for the COVID-19 crisis. Read more May 04, 2020 Jasmine Howard Selected as a 2020 Best & Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants Jasmine Howard (MBA 2020) was selected as one of Poets & Quants' “2020 Best & Brightest MBAs”. Read more May 01, 2020 Michael Oxman and Beril Toktay Contribute to Georgia’s First-Ever Framework for Carbon Reduction An article published on April 22 by the Ivan Allen College for Liberal Arts highlights the contributions of Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business leadership in a collaborative effort to find solutions to reduce Georgia’s carbon emissions by 2030. Read more April 30, 2020 Diana Nichols Recognized as a 2020 Best & Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants Diana Nichols (MBA 2020) was selected as one of Poets & Quants' “2020 Best & Brightest MBAs”. Nichols, who is originally from Chicago, received her B.S. in Economics from Florida A&M University (FAMU) and her M.S. in Economics from Georgia Tech. Read more April 29, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College Alumni Jacquie Smyth (MBA ’18) Takes a Green Path to Learning about Corporate Sustainability Jacquie Smyth, (MBA ’18) details her metamorphosis from a home recycler to a Scheller College Evening MBA student to becoming a City of Atlanta Sustainability Ambassador in the Office of Resilience’s Sustainability Ambassador program. Read more April 29, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Celebrates its 12th Annual Honors Day Awards Scheller College of Business’s 12th annual Honors Day was virtually commemorated this month in celebration of the accomplishments of Scheller College’s students, faculty, and staff, as well as the acknowledgment of the generous support of Scheller’s benefactors. Read more April 29, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Tyler Harper, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2020 Commencement. Read more April 28, 2020 CDL Recovery: Applications Now Open The Scheller College of Business has joined the Creative Destruction Lab’s global network to launch a program that addresses public health and economic recovery challenges that are emerging in the current crisis. Applications are now being accepted from all types of innovative teams. Read more April 28, 2020 Eric Overby, Associate Professor of Information Technology Management Promoted to Catherine & Edwin Wahlen Professorship Eric Overby, Information Technology Management associate professor, has been appointed to the Catherine & Edwin Wahlen Professorship. He joined Scheller College in 2007. Read more April 28, 2020 James “Robbie” Moon, assistant professor of Accounting Promoted to Hubert L. Harris Early Career Professorship James “Robbie” Moon, Accounting assistant professor, has been appointed to the Hubert L. Harris Early Career Professorship. Read more April 28, 2020 Marco Ceccagnoli, Professor of Strategy and Innovation Promoted to Brady Family in Management Professorship Marco Ceccagnoli, professor of Strategy & Innovation and area coordinator of Strategy and Innovation has been appointed to the Brady Family in Management Professorship. Read more April 27, 2020 A View from the Field: MBA Student Jasmine Howard Writes about Getting A Head Start in Year One In the April 22nd article “MBA Field Notes: Getting An Early Start On Your First Year” in Poet’s and Quants magazine, Scheller College of Business second-year MBA student Jasmine Howard advises the incoming MBA class of 2022 to get a head start on their first year prior to fall classes beginning. Read more April 27, 2020 Scheller College Professor David Sluss in Harvard Business Review: Crucial Steps a New Leader Should Take in Gaining Respect from Employees Whether you’ve been promoted from within the workplace or are coming into a new organization, your direct reports will have questions about your leadership capabilities. Associate professor of Organizational Behavior, David Sluss offers several steps new leaders can take to establish a relationship with employees. Read more April 27, 2020 Scheller MBA Students Ring the Bell Virtually for Nike Internships Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business tradition calls for ringing the bell when students accept an employment offer of any kind. Read more April 27, 2020 Spread Encouragement with Letters of Love As the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded, third-year undergraduate Claudia Onley created Letters of Love, which delivers letters of support and encouragement to frontline workers and submissions are welcomed. Read more April 23, 2020 2020 Ideas to Serve Competition Focuses on Communities in Atlanta and Around the World The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (ILSI) is thrilled to announce the results of the 2020 Ideas to Serve Competition (I2S). Read more April 21, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles Julia Snell, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we are interviewing a few soon-to-be graduates from our Evening MBA program, including Julia Snell. Read more April 20, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Braddon Calloway Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Braddon Calloway. Read more April 17, 2020 How Do Social Liberalization Policies Impact Innovation? The study explores the impact of two social liberalization policies (legalization of samesex civil unions and medical marijuana) and one anti-liberalization policy (passage of abortion restrictions) on innovation in the United States. The results of the study show that liberalization policies increase state-level patenting, while the anti-liberalization policy reduces patenting Read more April 16, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles Subhash Shanmugasundaram, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we are interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Subhash Shanmugasundaram. Read more April 16, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles Taylor Levy Evening MBA As a part of Scheller's Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Taylor Levy. Read more April 16, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Viha Desai, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Viha Desai. Read more April 16, 2020 New Website Highlights Georgia Tech’s Response to COVID-19 To highlight all the innovative ways our faculty, students and staff are responding to the pandemic, Georgia Tech has launched a new resource site to centralize news related to COVID-19. Read more April 16, 2020 Servant Leadership: A Lesson in Harmony, Humility and Helpfulness Dr. Rafael Bras, provost and executive vice president for Academic Affairs shares his views on Servant Leadership and the mission of the Serve-Learn-Sustain program he witnessed in action from a lifetime of service by Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter. Read more April 15, 2020 CDL Deploys Rapid Response Effort Connecting Entrepreneurs, Scientists, and Venture Capitalists to Deliver COVID-19 Solutions CDL-Atlanta, Georgia Tech’s Creative Destruction Lab program for the commercialization of early-stage science, is pivoting to help respond to the global COVID-19 crisis. Read more April 15, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Achintya Arora, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Achintya Arora. Read more April 15, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Emma Adams, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Emma Adams. Read more April 15, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Jasmine Howard, Full-time MBA As a part of Scheller's Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Jasmine Howard. Read more April 15, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Michelle Lumpkin, Evening MBA As a part of Scheller's Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Michelle Lumpkin. Read more April 15, 2020 Vickie Thomas Named Associate Dean for Scheller College of Business Executive Education Vickie Thomas, a Georgia Tech alumna, has been named Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Associate Dean for Executive Education. Thomas joins Scheller after an accomplished corporate career including the Coca-Cola Company and Equifax and served as an Innovation and Entrepreneurship Leader at the Metro Atlanta Chamber. Read more April 14, 2020 Scheller Professor’s Article in Harvard Business Review Looks at Building Virtual Team Resilience Scheller professor of organizational behavior David Sluss looks at how leaders can build resilience in teams who are working virtually. Read more April 13, 2020 Sports: A Key Player in Dori Pap's Life In 2000, Dori Pap came to the United States to play volleyball for the Yellow Jackets, and she never left. Today she is the managing director for Georgia Tech’s Institute for Leadership and Social Impact (formerly the Institute for Leadership and Entrepreneurship). Read more April 10, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Abbey Yates, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Abbey Yates. Read more April 10, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Aiman Shahab, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Aiman Shahab. Read more April 09, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: Hannah Koenraad, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including Hannah Koenraad. Read more April 09, 2020 Graduation 2020 Profiles: John Stauffer, Undergrad As part of Scheller’s Graduation 2020 Profiles series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates including John Stauffer. Read more April 09, 2020 Scheller College Undergraduates Chosen as Poets and Quants “100 Best & Brightest Business Majors of 2020” Poets and Quants for Undergrads announced its “Best and Brightest Business Majors of 2020“ and two of Scheller’s exceptional students, Darby Foster and Jason Quill, have been selected from a national pool of candidates. Read more April 08, 2020 Annual Ideas to Serve Competition Moves to Virtual Format for 2020 With the help of so many of our Georgia Tech colleagues, community collaborators, and the wider Atlanta social innovation network, I2S 2020 has come together as a fully-virtual competition. Read more April 08, 2020 BA Club Presents Virtual Workshops When the campus shutdown threatens to cancel their previously scheduled workshops, Business Analytics Club leaders pivot and present the workshops virtually. Read more April 06, 2020 A View from the Field: MBA Student Jasmine Howard Writes About How Location Matters in your MBA Experience In the March 29th article “MBA Field Notes: Say Yes To The Address” in Poet’s and Quants magazine, Scheller College of Business second-year MBA student Jasmine Howard examines how important location is during a student’s MBA experience. Read more April 03, 2020 MetroMBA.com: Georgia Tech’s Executive MBA Recruiting Manager Answers our Five Questions In the latest installment of the MetroMBA “5 Questions” series, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Lael Whiteside, an Executive MBA Recruiting Manager, talks about the advantages of the Executive MBA and the ‘typical student profile’ among other hot topics. Read more April 02, 2020 Alumna Spotlight: An Interview with Marybeth Bucklen (MBA ’19) A recent MBA graduate carries her passion for sustainability from Scheller College to her position with the City of Brookhaven. Read more April 02, 2020 Past I2S Winner, Judge Jasmine Burton: Why Sometimes the Problem You’re Solving Isn’t the Right Problem Jasmine Burton, a Georgia Tech graduate, product designer, social activist, and founder is passionate about a problem fairly novel to most: access to safely managed sanitation. She's also a new judge in the upcoming Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition. Read more March 31, 2020 Jenny Choi Announced as Inaugural Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship Recipient The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business and the Scheller College of Business have selected Jenny Choi as the first recipient of the Vivian Nora Lukens Memorial Scholarship. The scholarship was established to support undergraduate students who are pursuing the Certificate in Sustainable Business. Read more March 31, 2020 “Scheller-ing in Place”: Georgia Tech Scheller Women in Business Rise to the Challenge and Connect Virtually As students around the globe navigate a new normal amid quarantines and sheltering in place, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Women in Business members are staying connected with a unique array of virtual gatherings aimed at fostering a sense of continuity and community, while staying safely apart. Read more March 25, 2020 Scheller MBA Students and Alumnae Celebrate International Women’s Day at Annual Brunch In recognition of International Women’s Day, Scheller College women, both current students and alumnae from the Full-time and Evening MBA programs, gathered for an annual celebratory brunch hosted by Scheller MBA alum Jacquelyn Renée Schneider (Evening MBA, 2018). Read more March 25, 2020 U.S. News and World Report Awards Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Top Honors in 2021 Best Business Schools Rankings U.S. News and World Report has released its 2021 Best Business Schools report, which ranks the best business schools and MBA programs in the United States. Read more March 24, 2020 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Takes Top Honors in Bloomberg Businessweek’s 2020 Recruiters Survey Georgia Tech Scheller College scores top honors in Bloomberg Businessweek’s annual International Recruiters survey ranking in the Top 10 in three of the four categories. Read more March 23, 2020 MetroMBA.com: Georgia Tech's Evening MBA Recruiter Answers our Five Questions In the latest installment of the MetroMBA “5 Questions” series, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’s Christopher Hilario, Evening MBA Recruiting Manager talks about the advantages of Scheller’s evening MBA, the “perfect” kind of candidate and priorities before applying. Read more March 20, 2020 Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) and Scheller College of Business Partnership Featured Presentation at Lifelong Learning Spring 2020 Event Georgia Tech Scheller College’s Spring 2020 Lifelong Learning event featured an in-depth presentation on the new partnership between Toronto-based Creative Destruction Lab (CDL) and Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 19, 2020 App Detects Harsh Side Effect of Breast Cancer Treatment Former TI:GER MBA student and Tech colleagues publish a new study showing the success of their app for breast cancer survivors. Read more March 17, 2020 Women in Leadership: Georgia Tech Scheller Executive MBA Alum Profile, Chan By Chan By, an alum of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program, never let being a female in the male-dominated industry of Information Security (Infosec) intimidate her. She viewed it as a motivator to excel. Read more March 11, 2020 Scheller College MBA Students Win Grand Prize at Graduate Supply Chain Case Competition Four Full-time Georgia Tech MBA students took first place in Texas Christian University (TCU) Neely Center for Supply Chain Innovation’s Graduate Supply Chain Case Competition on February 24, 2020. Scheller’s Team NFI, named after competition sponsor NFI, a leading supply chain solutions provider, comprised of Preston Jones, James Farmer, Sachin Pai and Victoria Skinner, won the grand prize of $10,000 and four iPads after beating out 17 other graduate teams from various universities. Read more March 11, 2020 Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer Orders Up a Dish of Success to Scheller Crowd at Impact Series Event Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer represents a kind of servant leader that, like the business he oversees, is what he calls a “unique American phenomenon.” He spoke to Scheller about the company's success at a recent Impact series event. Read more March 09, 2020 Scheller College Celebrates International Women’s Day with “When Women Lead” Panel Discussion In celebration of International Women’s Day, Scheller College of Business hosted a discussion on “When Women Lead: Insights and Experience” with an esteemed panel of women leaders who have made remarkable impacts in business. Read more March 09, 2020 Scheller Faculty Sudheer Chava Publishes Paper Proving Impact of Language in Financial Earnings Calls In the March issue of The Accounting Review, Finance Professor Sudheer Chava Publishes Paper on the Impact of Language in Earnings Conference Calls. Read more March 06, 2020 Scheller College MBA Students Win First Prize in Race and Case Competition A team of four Scheller College of Business MBA students won first place ($5000) in the annual Race and Case competition in Denver, Colorado. The unique event, hosted by University of Denver’s Daniels College of Business from February 28-29, 2020, combined a premier business ethics-based case competition with an alpine ski challenge. Read more March 06, 2020 Sustainable Operations Workshop Supports Early-Career Scholars Seventy scholars representing nearly 40 different institutions from around the world gathered for the sixth annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop from February 21-23, 2020. The event brought together scholars and industry speakers for presentations covering a broad range of sustainability topics. Read more March 05, 2020 Global Leadership for a Better World: President Cabrera Speaks at Scheller College of Business on the Globalization of Trade and Business At a packed crowd of Scheller College of Business and Georgia Tech students, faculty and staff, President Ángel Cabrera delivered a compelling talk about the globalization of business and leadership. Read more March 05, 2020 Scheller College of Business Hosts Digitial Disruption Series V on Frictionless Healthcare In a recent event hosted by Scheller College of Business, panelists and keynote speakers from Accenture, Anthem, and Georgia Tech convened to discuss Frictionless Healthcare and what it means to patients, providers, and the healthcare industry. Read more March 04, 2020 MetroMBA.com: Georgia Tech's Full-time MBA Recruiter Answers our Five Questions In the latest installment of the MetroMBA.com “5 Questions” series, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business's Amy Hayes, Full-Time MBA Recruiter, talks about what makes an ideal Georgia Tech MBA candidate, what to know before applying, and much more. Read more February 28, 2020 A View from the Field: MBA Student Jasmine Howard Writes About Financial Assistance Options to Fund Your MBA In the February 14 article “MBA Field Notes: How to Get Paid to Attend Business School” in Poet’s and Quants magazine, Scheller College of Business second-year MBA student Jasmine Howard examines how students seeking an MBA can afford tuition through scholarship and fellowship opportunities. Read more February 28, 2020 Climate Change’s Impact on Business at Heart of MBA Student Summit From February 21-22, 2020, five MBA students from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business attended ClimateCAP at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business. The annual global MBA summit on climate, capital, and business prepares students to respond to the financial risks, investment opportunities, and leadership challenges associated with climate change. Read more February 26, 2020 New Podcast on Diversity and Inclusion Highlights the Undergraduate Experience from Three Perspectives Developing diversity and inclusivity whether on college campuses, or corporate boardrooms is becoming a necessity for organizations to prosper and flourish. Neve Shah, Priyesh Shah, and James Ni join the Scheller Intersection Podcast to discuss diversity through their own experiences. Read more February 25, 2020 Scheller College a “Transforming” School According to Positive Impact Rating In the Positive Impact Rating (PIR), Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is identified as one of the world’s top “transforming” schools. The World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, announced the PIR results on January 22, 2020. The new rating, conducted by students and for students, assesses business schools on the basis of their positive impact. Read more February 24, 2020 Scheller College Hosts Diversity and Inclusion Panel on Creating Impact and Driving Growth The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted its annual Diversity and Inclusion symposium on February 13, 2020. This year’s focus was on creating impact and driving growth in business through diversity and inclusion. Read more February 24, 2020 Scheller College of Business Faculty Beril Toktay Addresses e-Tailing Waste in TechTarget Article Scheller College of Business professor of Operations Management, Brady Family Chair and faculty director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Beril Toktay was recently quoted on Amazon's carbon footprint in e-Tailing, Read more February 24, 2020 Strategic Plan Draft Available for Review, Application Period Open for Phase Two Working Groups Visioning Phase garners more than 5,700 interactions with Georgia Tech stakeholders. Now, the process moves into the goal-setting phase that will include an opportunity for review and input from the Georgia Tech community. Read more February 21, 2020 Doctoral Candidate Publishes Solo-authored Paper on Dense Neighborhoods in Urban Settings Scheller College of Business doctoral student Maria Roche’s research was featured in the recent article “The Particular Creativity of Dense Urban Neighborhoods” by City Lab. The study finds that neighborhood form—in particular the density and layout of its streets—has a considerable effect on innovation. Read more February 21, 2020 Executive MBA Alumni Profile: Charlie Harty “Hey, I’m Charlie.” Those three words were enough for Charlie Harty to land a Forecasting Manager position at The Coca-Cola Company. Well, those three words and his journey through the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program. Read more February 21, 2020 Join Scheller College's Digital Disruption Series Part V: “Frictionless Healthcare” with Accenture, Anthem and Georgia Tech on February 28th Scheller College of Business will be hosting Part V: Frictionless Healthcare as part of its Digital Disruption Series on Friday, February 28 from 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. with leading thought leaders from corporate partners Accenture, Anthem and Georgia Tech. Read more February 20, 2020 Alumni Profile: Ashish Arya - A Georgia Tech Scheller “Double Jacket” with a Penchant for Pinterest As an official Georgia Tech “Double Jacket,” Ashish Arya earned both his undergraduate (BA’06) and Executive MBA (EMBA’13) degrees from Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Currently, he is the Global Head of Strategy & Marketing for Travel at Pinterest. Read more February 17, 2020 Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Presents “Lessons in Ethics from a Serial Entrepreneur” Kicking off the first in this year’s series “Cecil B. Day Presents”, Lara O’Connor Hodgson, co-founder, president and CEO, Now Corporation, spoke on “Lessons in Ethics from a Serial Entrepreneur.” Read more February 14, 2020 TEDxGeorgiaTech Speaker Series Features Scheller College Student Barrett Kulik Scheller College’s Barrett Kulik recently presented at TEDxGeorgiaTech Speaker Series on Achieving Excellence in Everyday Life. Read more February 13, 2020 Scheller College of Business Professor Peter Swire Cited in Article on Equifax Data Breach Charges Scheller College of Business Professor of Law, Peter Swire spoke on the recent identification of the Equifax hackers and the message it conveys to China's state-sponsored hacking of U.S. data. Read more February 12, 2020 Changing Demographics Create Growing Rental Market Cites Scheller College of Business Professor Barry Branch Professor Barrington (Barry) Branch discusses national trends in the online magazine RENTCafe that are leading more young people to rent rather than purchase a single-family home. Read more February 05, 2020 Scheller Student Delivers a Call for Cultural Change at TEDxGeorgiaTech TEDxGeorgiaTech recently hosted the first Student Speaker Series and Scheller undergraduate student Aiman Shahab presented a talk on women inequality and gender bias in South Asian Culture. Read more February 04, 2020 Georgia Tech’s Tech Square Launches Phase III Development Georgia Tech has announced the next phase of Technology “Tech” Square – an exciting planning, programming and concept design, Phase III will create another world-class destination within the already thriving innovation ecosystem. Read more February 04, 2020 Upcoming Scheller MarTech 2020 Conference Focuses on Using Technology to Understand Customers and Drive Marketing Decisions Georgia Tech MBA students, MBA alumni, prospective MBA students, and the Atlanta business community are invited to attend the MarTech 2020 Conference on Friday, February 21st at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business from 1-6 pm. Read more January 31, 2020 A Young Scheller College Entrepreneur’s Spirit Has Caught On in the Business World If you ask most entrepreneurs why they created their product or service, they would say they saw a need in the marketplace. Georgia Tech Scheller College student, Connor Ford (BA’20), is a shining example of recognizing a market need and launching a highly sought-after product. Read more January 30, 2020 How Does the Power Dynamic Between Referrers and Hiring Managers Affect Employees’ Support for New Hires? The results of this study shed light on the unintended consequences of referral-based hiring practices. The hiring process itself can erode employees’ views of hiring managers depending on the power of a referrer in relation to that of the hiring manager. Read more January 28, 2020 Scheller First-Year MBAs Place Second in the National Deloitte Supply Chain Case Competition A team of four full-time MBA students recently won 2nd place and a $2,500 award in a two-round competition of the Deloitte SCNO Supply Chain Case Competition. Read more January 27, 2020 Executive MBA Profile: How Being Early Saved Snehal Doshi's Life In business, being early for work, appointments, and deadlines is a good thing. For Snehal Doshi, a 2019 Scheller College of Business Executive MBA graduate, being early on the morning of September 11, 2001, saved his life. Read more January 27, 2020 Scheller College of Business EMBA Student Leadership Team Provides EMBA Students Unique Leadership Experience Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) students have the unique opportunity to lead and serve their fellow EMBA cohorts while interacting with program management through EMBA’s Student Leadership Team (SLT). Read more January 27, 2020 Scheller Professor Deven Desai Quoted in Recent Article on Use of Facial Recognition Software by the Atlanta Police Department Scheller College of Business associate professor Deven Desai was quoted in a recent article on the use of facial recognition software by the Atlanta Police Department to assist in police investigations. Read more January 16, 2020 Mondo Merkato Podcast Series from CIBER Invites Listeners to Learn More about International Business through Storytelling How does soft drink king Pepsi and the internationally renowned pop group ABBA trade with the Soviet Union when rubles are useless? How does Blockchain works outside the public image of being tied predominately to Bitcoin? Listen to the Mondo Merkato podcast series from CIBER to find out. Read more January 16, 2020 Summer Abroad Program Offers Students Opportunities to Work with Non-profits for Positive Change The Leadership for Social Good (LSG) Study Abroad program is taking applications from students across disciplines for its summer semester abroad. The program provides an opportunity to make a positive impact globally by working with non-profit partner organizations in Budapest, Hungary, Prague, Czech Republic, and Vienna, Austria. Read more January 15, 2020 Scheller MBA Students Travel West for Tech Trek Before heading home for winter break this past December, 29 Scheller MBA students traveled to the San Francisco Bay Area for the College’s annual West Coast Tech Trek. Read more January 14, 2020 Changing the Opportunities for Women as Leaders through Servant Leadership Statistically, men still serve in more leadership roles than women. However, a recent study published by Scheller College of Business professor and Tedd Munchak Chair in Entrepreneurship, Dr. Terry Blum, and colleague Dr. Jim Lemoine (U. Buffalo) asserts that where servant leadership is practiced in the workplace it provides an environment that creates servant followers and provides a leadership advantage for women servant leaders. Read more January 13, 2020 Scheller College of Business MBA Students Re-CHARGE with David Rowland Scheller College’s first-year Full-time MBA students had the opportunity to hear Executive Chairman of Accenture and Scheller alum, David Rowland, speak on how his experiences have shaped his view of leadership at Scheller’s Re-CHARGE event on January 10, 2020. Read more January 09, 2020 Georgia Tech Father and Son Graduate Together at 2019 Commencement Ceremony While it is highly improbable for a father and son to attend the same university at the same time, that’s exactly what John Britto and his son Jeyanth (Jey) did. Read more December 20, 2019 Poets & Quants Ranks Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program Top 20 in the U.S. Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate Program has been named #14 Best Undergraduate Business Program in the U.S. and #5 Best Undergraduate Business Program at a public university in the U.S. by Poets and Quants in their just-released 2020 rankings for undergraduate programs. Read more December 19, 2019 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Announces 2019-20 Scheller College Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Ambassadors The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is delighted to announce the 2019-20 Graduate Sustainability Fellows and Undergraduate Sustainability Ambassadors. This year, 11 graduate and seven undergraduate students will deepen their engagement in sustainability by working on projects and participating in activities related to sustainable business. Read more December 17, 2019 MBA Students Claim Second Place in IHG’s Case Competition First-year MBA students Candice Blacknall (FT MBA, 2021), Kristen Brinson, (FT MBA, 2021) Denzel McCollum (FT MBA, 2021), Andrew Shibata (FT MBA, 2021), and Gabi Solis (FT MBA, 2021) won second place in InterContinental Hotels Group, plc’s, (IHG) yearly case competition. Read more December 13, 2019 Creative Destruction Lab Joins Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Creative Destruction Lab (CDL), an objectives-based program for massively scalable science- and tech-based companies, is partnering with Georgia Tech Scheller School of Business for its next North American location, CDL-Atlanta. Read more December 12, 2019 How Can Top Management Encourage Middle Management Buy-In for Corporate Social Responsibility? Investment decisions can be framed financially or non-financially. Managers who personally support CSR will invest more in their organizations’ CSR initiatives when they are framed in non-financial units rather than as financial investments. Read more December 11, 2019 Lane McAree Develops Global Perspective Through Time at Tech Lane McAree is a fifth-year business administration student who’s set to graduate this weekend. She says her experience in Senegal gave her new insights into improving education for women and girls. Read more December 04, 2019 Hive Supercomputer Makes its Debut Georgia Tech now boasts a $5.3 million high-performance computing (HPC) system that is enabling data-driven discovery in data science, computational astrophysics, biology, chemistry, and materials science at the institute. Read more December 03, 2019 Scheller College Evening MBA Program Adds GMAC Executive Assessment to Admissions Process Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has added a new testing option for working professionals interested in applying to the nationally-ranked Evening MBA program. Read more November 22, 2019 Ramblin' Roundtable: FinTech - The Intersection Podcast For the second episode of our new Intersection roundtable podcast series 'Ramblin' Roundtable', host Jasmine Howard chats with MBA Candidate Ben Rosenthal, MBA Alum Saurabh Bose, and Professor Eric Overby about trends in and the future of FinTech. Read more November 18, 2019 Summer Internships: West Coast Tech - The Intersection Podcast 2nd year MBA candidates discuss all that they learned during their summer west coast tech internships, what helped them prepare, and more! Read more November 12, 2019 Scheller College of Business Named a Top Three U.S. School in the Corporate Knights 2019 Better World MBA Ranking Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business continues to be recognized as a leader in sustainability education in business. In the 17th annual Better World MBA Ranking, released by Corporate Knights on November 8, 2019, Scheller College is ranked #3 in the United States and #9 globally Read more November 12, 2019 Summer Internships: Consulting - The Intersection Podcast 2nd year MBA candidates discuss all that they learned during their summer consulting internships, what helped them prepare, and more! Read more November 11, 2019 Kenneth Hettler: A Veteran on a Mission Never one to shy away from challenges, Kenneth Hettler, a first-year Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA student, is an Eagle Scout, a West Point graduate with a B.S. in Information Management (’11), and an Army veteran who was recently named by Poets and Quants to their “MBA Class of 2021: The Go-Getters” roster. Read more November 07, 2019 It All Started in Tower Dorm: A Talk with Pete Correll, CEO of Georgia Pacific and Chairman of Grady Hospital Former President and CEO of Georgia-Pacific and Chairmen of Grady Hospital, Pete Correll, speaks to students about his career journey and the chances he took that led to his tremendous success. Read more November 06, 2019 Scheller Undergraduates Named Georgia Tech Homecoming “Mr. and Ms. Georgia Tech” for Third Consecutive Year For the third consecutive year, Scheller College of Business undergraduates were crowned “Mr. and Ms. Georgia Tech.” Winners Rachel Luckcuck (‘20) and Francis Yang (‘20) received the honor during Georgia Tech’s Homecoming Game on November 2, 2019. Read more November 01, 2019 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Participates in Inaugural Sustainability Showcase Faculty, staff, and students affiliated with the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Scheller College of Business contributed to Georgia Tech’s inaugural Sustainability Showcase. Over 150 members of the Georgia Tech community shared their current work in sustainability research and education. Read more October 31, 2019 Scheller College of Business Ranks in Top 20 in the U.S. Among All MBA Programs by The Economist for 2019 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Fulltime MBA program is ranked in the top 20 among all MBA programs in the US, #6 among MBA programs in public universities and #23 globally by The Economist in its 2019 rankings. Read more October 30, 2019 Dean Alavi Represents Georgia Tech Faculty at President ´Angel Cabrera’s Investiture Ceremony Scheller College of Business’ Dean Maryam Alavi welcomes incoming Georgia Tech President Dr. Ángel Cabrera on behalf of all faculty at the October 28th Investiture ceremony for Dr. Cabrera. Read more October 22, 2019 Lifelong Learning Series: A Talk with Dr. Manpreet Hora on Operational Excellence As part of the Lifelong Learning series, Dr. Manpreet Hora discusses Operational Excellence Read more October 18, 2019 EXCEL Continues to Thrive with Assistance from the Donald L. Chapman Endowment Fund The EXCEL program for young people with intellectual and development disabilities receives funding from the Donald L. Chapman Endowment Fund established by McKinneys, Inc. Read more October 18, 2019 MBA Students Learn How to Incorporate Sustainability in Careers The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and the Net Impact – MBA Chapter co-hosted the sixth annual panel on sustainability in careers on October 9. Speakers shared insights with nearly two dozen MBA students eager to hear how their careers could be aligned with their environmental and social values. Read more October 15, 2019 Michael Lowe Chosen as One of Poets and Quants Favorite Professors Michael Lowe, assistant professor of Marketing at Scheller College of Business has been chosen by Poets and Quants as one of the nation’s favorite business professors in its October 8 article “The Favorite Professors of Business Majors.” Read more October 14, 2019 2nd Annual BAC Career Fair & Internship Expo Connects Students with Top Tech Companies Fourteen of the nation's leaders in business analytics attended the BAC Career Fair and Analytics Expo, hoping to attract Tech's top talent. Read more October 14, 2019 MBA Students Take Home 10k Prize at the National Black MBA Association Case Competition The National Black MBA Case Competition awards were held this past September at the 41st Annual National Black MBA Conference in Houston. Thirty-four teams from the nation's top MBA schools vied for a winning spot in the case competition and Scheller College’s Team LifeUnited placed third in the nation, winning $10,000. Read more October 04, 2019 Ramblin' Roundtable: Technology and Mobility - The Intersection Podcast Kicking off a new Intersection roundtable podcast series 'Ramblin' Roundtable', host Jasmine chats with MBA Candidates Stephen Stradley and Sunny Gupta, and Professor Patricia Mokhtarian from the School of Civil and Environmental Engineering about trends in and the future of mobility. Read more October 03, 2019 Scheller College Faculty Discuss Sustainable Business in Climate Symposium The faculty affiliated with the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business participated in the Global Climate Action Symposium. The event brought together engineers, government delegates, business and policy experts, activists, and students from around the world. It was jointly sponsored by Georgia Tech and six European consulates during European Climate Diplomacy Week. Read more October 02, 2019 Swire Discusses Recent “Right to be Forgotten” Ruling by EU’s Higher Court in Google’s Fight About Data Privacy for EU Citizens Peter Swire, professor at Scheller College of Business talks about the Court of Justice for the European Union's decision on Google's use of EU citizens' data. Read more September 27, 2019 University Global Compact's (UGC) Inaugural Meeting Highlighting UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Includes President Cabrera, Other Georgia Tech Participants Six universities and higher education organizations including Georgia Tech participated in the University Global Compact’s (UGC) inaugural “17-Rooms-U” at Rutgers University. Georgia Tech President Dr. Ángel Cabrera and Beril Toktay, Scheller professor among attendees. Read more September 26, 2019 Scheller Faculty Beril Toktay Featured in Recent AP Article on Amazon’s Commitment to Tackling Climate Change Amazon released its carbon footprint earlier this week and its greenhouse gas emissions are close to those of a small nation. However, they have committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2040. Professor Beril Toktay provides an assessment of their plans. Read more September 25, 2019 Basak Kalkanci Named 2019 ARCS Emerging Sustainability Scholar The Alliance for Corporate Sustainability (ARCS), an organization advancing rigorous academic research on corporate sustainability issues, has selected Basak Kalkanci for its Emerging Sustainability Scholar Award. Read more September 24, 2019 Project Management Institute Comes Home to Georgia Tech: A Talk with Founder Jim Snyder The Project Management Institute, started in the late 1960’s is celebrating its 50th anniversary this year, with over 500,000 members in 208 countries, 300 chapters, and over 10,000 volunteers. Jim Snyder, one of its founding members, visited Scheller College of Business on September 10th to discuss the history of the Project Management Institute, its half-century hallmark, and the Georgia Tech connection that helped form the international organization. Read more September 23, 2019 Georgia Tech EXCEL Student Receives New Bike from Community and Georgia Tech Police Department On Sunday, September 15, someone stole Marquavious Barnes’ bicycle. He received it from his uncle when he was just eight years old, two years after being hit by a car, which resulted in a traumatic brain injury. Read how the Georgia Tech Police Department and the Atlanta community came together to help Qua. Read more September 23, 2019 Scheller PhD student and CPA, Kathryn Holmstrom, Awarded William (Bill) Ezzell Scholarship The American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) Foundation awarded the first William (Bill) Ezzell Scholarships to five CPAs pursuing doctorates in accounting. Read more September 17, 2019 Helping Students Achieve Their Career Goals: Meet Stan Broome As assistant director of Undergraduate Career Education in the Scheller College of Business, Stan Broome manages recruitment relationships with corporations and teaches career development classes to business students. Read more September 17, 2019 International MBAs - The Intersection student podcast The Intersection sits down with full-time MBA candidates Melanie Coissard, Yash Lakhotia, and Alireza Nazari to learn about the experience of international students at Scheller. Listen to the episode to find out some of their helpful hints to thriving in an MBA program when coming from abroad. Read more September 16, 2019 Georgia Tech Approves Certificate in Sustainable Business Beginning in Fall 2019, Georgia Tech undergraduates from any major will have the opportunity to pursue a Certificate in Sustainable Business. Read more September 10, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Ranks Two Scheller College of Business Undergraduate Programs Top 5 Nationally Among Business Schools The U.S. News and World Report’s 2020 Best Colleges rankings were announced Monday September 9, and two of Scheller College of Business’ Undergraduate programs were selected in the top five programs among all business schools in the U.S. The two programs are Management Information Systems, ranked No. 3, and Quantitative Analysis/Methods, ranked No. 4. Read more September 09, 2019 "How You Lead Matters." Millie Bradley Explores Ethical Leadership at Impact Speaker Series Millie Bradley, former chief auditor with ExxonMobile, speaks on ethics and leadership at the latest Impact Speaker Series. Read more September 09, 2019 Dean Alavi Presented with Award at 11th Annual Diversity Symposium At the 11th Annual Diversity Symposium, held Wednesday, September 4, 2019, Maryam Alavi, Dean, Scheller College of Business and Stephen P. Zelnak Jr. Chair, was the recipient of the prestigious 2019 Diversity Champion Faculty Award. Dean Alavi was recognized for her many contributions toward creating a diverse and inclusive community at Scheller College and Georgia Tech. Read more September 06, 2019 Dr. Raphael Bostick, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Visits Scheller College of Business Finance Class Professor Gary T. Jones welcomed Dr. Raphael Bostic, president and chief executive officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, to his Management of Financial Institutions class at Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business on Thursday, August 29 for a discussion of the role of the Federal Reserve and its effects on today’s markets. Read more September 06, 2019 “Time-Traveling” MBA Students Discuss Progress Solving Global Sustainability Issues Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business entered a time machine on August 20, 2019—and came out ten years in the future. During the “Reports from the Future” symposium, MBA students, pretending it was the year 2029, spoke about the progress society has made addressing global issues related to environmental and social sustainability. Read more September 04, 2019 Jonathan Clarke Provides Finance Tips for College Students in U.S. News & World Report In an August 20th U.S. News & World Report article titled "Ways to Save Money in College," Scheller professor Jonathan Clarke weighs in on how college students can achieve stronger financial success. He notes the importance of building a budget to help stretch a paycheck Read more September 04, 2019 TI:GER Ph.D. Grad David Montes De Oca Zapiain with team SwiftMat Turns Machine Learning Research into Startup Ph.D. graduate David Montes De Oca Zapiain didn’t plan to be an entrepreneur, but a great experience in Georgia Tech’s TI:GER program encouraged him to turn his research into a business plan that he is pursuing while working as a postdoc at Sandia National Laboratory. In this Q&A he talks about how he ended up staying at Tech for three degrees, and how he found a surprising level of support for taking his idea to market. Read more September 03, 2019 U.S. India Business Forum Highlights Economic Partnerships in Technology Development The 10th Annual USA India Business Forum and the 25th Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum was held August 27-28 at the Academy of Medicine. The event, titled “Global Advanced Industries: Creating Local Opportunities,” was sponsored by the Sheller College of Business’ Center for International Business Education and Research (CIBER), the USA India Business Summit (UIBS), and the Georgia Department of Economic Development. Read more August 29, 2019 Scheller College of Business Celebrates Opening Bell for Incoming Undergraduates In its longstanding tradition of welcoming the incoming undergraduate class of first year and transfer students, Scheller College of Business held its Opening Bell ceremony August 27, 2019. Read more August 29, 2019 Students Champion Workplace Sustainability in the Third Annual Carbon Reduction Challenge How do you stop millions of pounds of heat-trapping Carbon Dioxide from ever being emitted? In Georgia Tech’s Summer 2019 Carbon Reduction Challenge, student interns used their ingenuity to identify opportunities for scalable carbon reduction projects at a wide variety of partnering organizations. Read more August 28, 2019 How Does Car Sharing Interact With Sustainable Product Design? Although car sharing has the potential to cannibalize car sales, it can boost auto manufacturers’ profitability. Manufacturers can reach more customers and increase the selling price of products because car sharing allows for better market segmentation. Higher-end manufacturers benefit more from providing this type of service Read more August 21, 2019 Dr. Lucien Dhooge Receives Prestigious Distinguished Career Faculty Award from the Academy of Legal Studies in Business Dr. Lucien Dhooge, Sue and John Staton professor of law at Scheller College, recently received the Academy of Legal Studies in Business’s (ALSB) Distinguished Career Faculty Award for his contributions in the field of law and ethics. Read more August 21, 2019 Tech Square Phase III to Include Scheller Tower It is with great pleasure that we announce Scheller Tower – a new building for the Scheller College of Business in Tech Square Phase III, expected to open year-end 2022. Read more August 15, 2019 Georgia Tech Scheller College’s Executive MBA Celebrates Gender Parity Student Enrollment Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Executive MBA (EMBA) program has become one of the first nationally-ranked business schools to achieve gender parity in an MBA program. Read more August 14, 2019 Students Apply Sustainable Business Concepts to Uplift Challenged Community What does it take to transform a community from “striving” to “thriving”? Ask undergraduate students in Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business who recently learned about creating sustainable communities through an innovative project. Read more August 13, 2019 Scheller Faculty Featured in Recent Media Op-Eds Two recent sustainability-focused op-eds featured Scheller faculty in Corporate Knights and Environmental Leader. Read more August 13, 2019 White Coats Yellow Jackets: A Q&A with the Two Newest Incoming M.D./MBAs This year, Scheller welcomed its second class of M.D./MBAs - Candice Blacknall and Chima Odinkemere. Read more August 12, 2019 Dean Alavi Reappointed for Five Years Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Rafael Bras announced this July that Maryam Alavi was reappointed as Dean and Stephen P. Zelnak Jr. Chair for Scheller College of Business through June 30, 2024. Read more August 12, 2019 Scheller Included in “Best of Best” Placements for MBA Programs Scheller College appears as one of the first of the 2019 “Best of the Best” placements appearing in the summer issue of Black EOE Journal. Read more August 12, 2019 Scheller Student Shares Favorite Element in Support of 150th Anniversary of Periodic Table The August edition of the Georgia Tech “My Favorite Element” series features Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA Candidate Jasmine Au Howard. Read more August 09, 2019 Peter Swire Featured on WABE’s Closer Look with Rose Scott WABE’s Rose Scott interviewed Scheller’s own Peter Swire as part of her July 15th “Closer Look” radio series on 90.1 FM. They discussed ransomware and cyber security and how companies and individuals can protect themselves from cyber threats Read more August 07, 2019 Peter Swire Op Ed on the U.S, China and Case 311/18 on Standard Contractual Clauses Appears in Le Monde In the French LeMonde newspaper op-ed piece, Peter Swire writes about the July 9th Court of Justice for the European Union (CJEU) oral argument of Case C-311/18 which discusses if U.S. surveillance practices violate the fundamental rights of EU citizens. Read more July 31, 2019 Beril Toktay Selected as Finalist for 2019 Atlanta E3 Awards On July 29, 2019, Scheller College of Business Professor Beril Toktay was selected as a finalist for the 2019 Atlanta E3 Awards in the “Impact” category. The Atlanta E3 Awards, which are presented by the Metro Atlanta Chamber (MAC), celebrate the companies, organizations and people whose work innovates at the intersection of sustainability and commerce. Read more July 19, 2019 Bank News Features Byline Article by Chuck Mulford on “Small Business and Cash Flow Analysis in the Loan Underwriting Decision” In a recent article in Bank News, Scheller professor Chuck Mulford highlights alternate ways to measure cash flow outside of the traditional earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) for underwriting decision making. Read more July 17, 2019 Emerging Leaders Program Summer Tour Introduces Faculty to Georgia Communities Have you ever wondered about the communities your students come from? Helping faculty members better understand this background information is one of the reasons why each year members of the Emerging Leaders Program (ELP) take a tour of a region in Georgia. Read more July 17, 2019 Provost Teaching and Learning Fellows at Scheller College Provost Teaching and Learning Fellows (PTLF) at Scheller College established its goals and action plans, for the 2019-20 academic year Read more July 11, 2019 Denning Technology and Management Students Participate in Global Leadership Certificate Program in China As part of the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program, 38 Denning Scholars participated in the “Global Leadership: Conducting Business in China” certificate program at Shenzhen University’s College of Management in mid-March. Read more July 10, 2019 Scheller College Assistant Professor Tiffany Johnson Featured in “Age of Empowerment” Series on Women at Tech Dr. Tiffany D. Johnson was recently featured as one of the exceptional women in the series “An Age of Empowerment." Read more July 09, 2019 Poets and Quants for Executives Names Two Executive MBA Grads to its 100 Best and Brightest for 2019 One completed two half-ironman triathlons and one publishes papers on neuroscience and how the brain develops in in teenagers. Jacob Gelbaum and Rebecca J. Von Der Heide, respectively, are two of the nation’s Executive MBA graduates to receive accolades as Poets & Quants for Executives “100 Best and Brightest Executive MBAs for the Class of 2019.” Read more June 28, 2019 Scheller Co-Hosts National Institute of Standards and Technology Privacy Framework Workshop Scheller College of Business Professor Peter Swire and School of Interactive Computing Professor Annie Antón recently hosted the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) second public workshop on its development of the NIST Privacy Framework: An Enterprise Risk Management Tool. Read more June 28, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Article on Budgeting Tools Features Finance Professor Jonathan Clarke Jonathan Clarke, associate professor of Finance, was quoted in a recent U.S. News and World Report article “Ten Simple and Free Budgeting Tools” which looks at some free budgeting tools to help you stay on track. Read more June 19, 2019 Peter Swire Awarded Outstanding Academic Achievement by Future of Privacy Forum Scheller College Professor and Cyber Security expert Peter Swire was recently presented the Outstanding Academic Achievement award at the 10th Anniversary Celebration of the Future of Privacy Forum (FPF). Read more June 17, 2019 Will Facebook and Google Overtake Blockchain Technology - A Discussion with Eric Overby A few years ago, no one really knew what blockchain was or how it worked; only that it was being used by Bitcoin. Now, more and more mainstream companies are using it to handle their transactions. Read more June 10, 2019 Scheller College Receives $1M Donation for Scholarships From Alumnus Robert (Bob) Torras Sr. At a recent event at St. Simons Island, Georgia, Scheller College of Business received a generous gift when Mr. Robert (Bob) Torras Sr. presented Dean Maryam Alavi with a check for $1 million. Read more June 03, 2019 Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Sudheer Chava Discusses Capital Cost Reductions Introduced by Socially Responsible Investing Read more June 03, 2019 What Are the Implications of Recycling Technology Choice on Environmental Benefits of Recycling? Collective recycling systems have long been criticized for restricting the environmental benefits of extended producer responsibility because of free-riding issues among producers. This study revisits and refines this assertion and shows that when recycling technology choice is taken into account, collective recycling systems can lead to higher environmental benefits than individual recycling systems. Read more May 21, 2019 Entrepreneur’s Excitement and Enthusiasm - Can Joy Buy you Money? When it comes to pitching business ideas to potential investors, an entrepreneur’s excitement and enthusiasm can make all of the difference between dreams taking shape or falling flat. Read more May 17, 2019 Tech TI:GER Team Wins TiE Young Entrepreneurship University Global Pitchfest Competition for Speech Disorders Two Georgia Tech students in Scheller College of Business’ Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER) program recently won first place in the inaugural The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Young Entrepreneurs University Global Pitchfest Competition Read more May 16, 2019 EXCEL Students Participate in Commencement Services at Georgia Tech On Saturday, April 27, seven Scheller students in the Institute for Learning Experience (ILE) were the first in the EXCEL (Expanding Career, Education and Leadership Opportunities) program to graduate. Read more May 16, 2019 Scheller 2nd Year Students Take Second Place in Race and Case Competition The Scheller MBA Team took 2nd place at the Race and Case Competition in Denver, Colorado. The event is hosted by the Daniels College of Business (University of Denver) and provides a unique experience as a premier business ethics case competition combined with an alpine ski challenge. Read more May 15, 2019 Michael Oxman Discusses Sustainable Business at Savannah Council on World Affairs After working in the energy sector in places such as the Soviet Union, Kazakhstan, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines, Oxman witnessed firsthand how social and environmental risks affect companies and their bottom lines. Read more May 13, 2019 Three Scheller MBAs Selected as Top 100 MBAs to Watch in 2019 Scheller College MBA students Michelle Albert, Maggy Deiters, and Luke Wareham were recently recognized in Poets and Quants “100 MBAs to Watch in the Class of 2019.” Read more May 10, 2019 Congratulations Scheller College Graduates 2019 Annual Commencement ceremonies for Spring 2019 took place May 3 and May 4 with over 317 Scheller students conferred degrees by the College’s Dean, Maryam Alavi. Read more May 06, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Jordan Samet, PhD As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more May 03, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Raghu Valluri, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more May 03, 2019 Georgia Trend’s May Issue Features Scheller College’s Associate Dean Brian Jennings and Recent Alumnus Jamie Foss A story in Georgia Trend’s May issue titled "Mastering the Future" highlights Scheller College of Business’ experiential learning opportunities as well as the convergence of technology and business – which is perfectly aligned with Scheller College’s unique positioning at the intersection of business and technology. Read more May 03, 2019 Scheller Faculty Debby Turner Featured in EMBAC Article on Accounting and Finance Debby Turner, a John and Wendi Wells Associate Professor for Teaching Excellence at Scheller College, was featured in an article in by EMBAC (Executive MBA Council) titled ‘Accounting Comes to Life in EMBA Course.” Read more May 02, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Pramukh Nagabhushan, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more May 02, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Sadde Salaices, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more May 02, 2019 EMBA students Get Some Coaching as Georgia Tech’s Coach Collins Shares His Top Ten Learnings While you might not think football coaching and MBA courses have a lot in common – they have more in common than you think according to Georgia Tech Football Coach Geoff Collins. Collins recently addressed the Executive MBA class at Scheller College and shared 10 key business learnings. Read more May 02, 2019 Two Scheller Faculty Named "40 Under 40" Best MBA Professors for 2019 in Poets & Quants Scheller faculty Florin Niculescu and Cem Ozturk were nominated by students and peers and selected by Poets and Quants as "2019 Best '40 Under 40' MBA Professors. " Read more May 02, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Features Scheller College Dean Alavi on the Importance of Soft Skills for STEM A recent U.S. News & World Report story on “STEM Workers Need Soft Skills Too” highlighted the importance of “soft skills” in today’s workplace with Dean Alavi providing insights. Read more May 01, 2019 Scheller College Undergraduate Student Sean Henry’s STORD, a CREATE-X Startup, Announced 12.3M Round of Venture Funding STORD, an Atlanta-based start-up that provides storage space to companies, manufacturers and retailers, was launched in 2015 by Sean Henry, Scheller College of Business Dean’s Scholar, and Jacob Boudreau through Georgia Tech's CREATE-X program. In early April, the company announced a $12.3M round of venture funding. Read more April 30, 2019 Steven Murchison Named as 2019 Best and Brightest MBA by Poets & Quants Steven Murchison (MBA 2019) was recently selected as Poets & Quants' “2019 Best and Brightest MBAs” for 2019. Murchison, who was recently awarded the Dean’s Award for the Full-time MBA Student Excellence Award at the 2019 Honor’s Day ceremony, is a second year student in the Full-time MBA program. Read more April 26, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Caroline Cusick, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 26, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Michelle Frenssen, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 26, 2019 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Celebrates Earth Day With Environmental Competition at Delta Air Lines “We’re delighted to be a part of helping Delta generate business value from these environmental initiatives,” said Beril Toktay, Faculty Director of the Center. Center corporate sustainability experts helped five teams of employee finalists from three different countries ... Read more April 25, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Nancy Wheless, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 24, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Travis King, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 23, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Daniel Condon, Evening MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 23, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Maggy Deiters, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 22, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Meredith Wolpert, Undergraduate Countdown to Commencement As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 22, 2019 Key2Enable Wins at Global Social Venture Competition At the recent global finals of the Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC) held on April 5, two teams representing the U.S. Eastern Region, Key2Enable and Magnomer, had an exceptional showing - placing in the top six, with Key2Enable winning the top prize and $40,000 in funding. Read more April 22, 2019 Scheller College Executive MBA Alumni Pete Quinones Named AACSB 2019 Influential Leader The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) annually recognizes those who combine business leadership with passion and purpose for its “2019 Influential Leaders.” Alumni honorees are selected based on their meaningful, lasting impact in the world. AACSB’s Influential Leaders recognizes these graduates and the business schools that prepared them. Read more April 18, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Darius Chinoy, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 16, 2019 2019 Ideas to Serve Winners Focus on Healthcare Workers in India and Off-Grid Agriculture Practices Georgia Tech, known for producing concrete results, nurtures a culture of innovation and technological breakthroughs. With so many competing demands, students push to complete task after task under a heightened time constraint and strive to have intelligent, creative, correct answers. Until this year, the Ideas to Serve Competition aligned with every other solution-based competition on campus. However, this year’s competition focused on showcasing the unknown, the problem, or the path to understanding the problem, as a prerequisite to introducing any solution Read more April 16, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Roopal Goel, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 15, 2019 Sunday’s Front Page of Atlanta Journal Constitution Profiles EXCEL at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Atlanta Journal Constitution took an in-depth look at the program, its students and accomplishments. Saturday, April 27, seven Georgia Tech students will be the first in the EXCEL (Expanding Career, Education and Leadership Opportunities) program to graduate. Read more April 12, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Zhanfei Lei, PhD Student As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement Read more April 11, 2019 2019 MBA International Practicum Travels to South Africa The slate of destinations for the 2019 MBA International Practicum featured an exciting new option for students: South Africa. The South Africa course was co-sponsored by the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business (“Center”), giving Full-time and Evening MBA students an opportunity to exercise their sustainable business skills with hands-on projects. The International Practicum is one of the MBA Program’s most popular electives, designed to facilitate a semester-long client project between international organizations and MBA student consultants. Read more April 10, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Gregory Shaw, Full-time MBA As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 08, 2019 Countdown to Commencement Alex Luczkow As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate, MBA, and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 Commencement. Read more April 08, 2019 Scheller Undergraduate Meredith Wolpert Wins Love Family Foundation Scholarship Annually, The Love Family Foundation Scholarship is awarded to a member of the graduating class with the most outstanding scholastic record. It is one of the highest awards Georgia Tech Institute gives to a graduating senior who has the “most outstanding scholastic record of all members of the class.” Read more April 08, 2019 Steven Murchison Wins Scheller College Dean’s Award for Full-time MBA Student Excellence “When you have experience that can help other people, it’s your duty and responsibility to put that skill to use—to share that information and experience with other people to help them achieve their career goals,” said Steven Murchison, this year’s recipient of the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Dean’s Award for Full-time MBA Student Excellence. Read more April 05, 2019 2019 MBA International Practicum Travels to China With the world’s fastest-growing economy, China was the perfect destination for Scheller College Full-time and Evening MBAs participating in the 2019 International Practicum course. The International Practicum is one of the MBA Program’s most popular electives, designed to facilitate a semester-long client project between international organizations and MBA student consultants Read more April 05, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Tiffany Michelle Findlay, Evening MBA Tiffany is completing her Evening MBA with a concentration in Business Analytics and describes herself as “a learner, achiever, dog mom, and karaoke enthusiast.” The native Atlantan will be working at Procter & Gamble in Cincinnati, Ohio, as a Supply Network Operations Manager post graduation. Read more April 05, 2019 Durability Vs. Recyclability: Dueling Goals in Making Electronics More Sustainable The falling cost of solar power has led to a boom in recent years, with more and more photovoltaic panels popping up on rooftops and backyard solar farms around the world. But what happens to all of those solar panels in a couple of decades when they reach the end of their useful life? And what about electronic devices with even shorter life spans? Read more April 05, 2019 Scheller College Celebrates Honors Day 2019 On Thursday, April 4, Scheller College of Business held its eleventh annual Honors Day at the Renaissance Hotel Midtown to celebrate the accomplishments of students, faculty, and staff and the generous support of Scheller College benefactors. Read more April 04, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Shane Phillipps, Undergraduate Shane is originally from Kingston, Jamaica, and completing his business administration degree with a concentration in finance. After graduation, he will be heading to New York to work at Credit Suisse as an investment banking analyst. Read more April 04, 2019 Keith Parker, President and CEO of Goodwill of North Georgia, Visits Scheller College as Part of Impact Speaker Series Of the many lessons Keith Parker shared at a recent Impact Speaker Series, one of the most important that he highlighted was how critical it is to find quality mentors in your professional career. Keith emphasized this succinctly for students in the audience, “Just as important as your major is who you choose as a mentor. One or two mentors might not be enough.” Read more April 03, 2019 Ideas to Serve Competition – ‘Know What You Don’t Know’ Applicants for the 2019 Ideas to Serve (I2S) competition are exploring and addressing a number of issues both locally and globally from plastic waste reduction, disaster response in low-income communities, food security, global health, prison reform, education, and more! Read more April 01, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Anuj Gupta, Full-time MBA Meet Anuj Gupta: Anuj hails from Gwalior, India, and is completing his Full-time MBA. He describes himself as “an ambitious, empathetic, and pragmatic change-maker striving to make a difference in the world.” He will be joining Deloitte Consulting in Atlanta after graduation. Read more March 29, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Hailey Eichner, Full-time MBA Hailey is completing her Full-time MBA and describes herself as “reliable, hardworking, and quick to learn.” The native New Yorker will be heading back to her home city after graduation as she takes on the position of Vice President, Global Relationship Manager at Genpact. Read more March 28, 2019 How Can Nonprofit Organizations Maximize Social Impact for Distressed Individuals? An NPO should invest more in guiding and advising its clients to choose the best-suited service when it is not severely resource-constrained, or when different types of clients are not evenly mixed in the population. Read more March 27, 2019 2019 MBA International Practicum Travels to Hungary Cosmopolitan European capital, fine dining, and networking with senior business and political leaders — what more could an MBA student ask for on spring break? Scheller College’s MBA International Practicum in Hungary offered students just that. The International Practicum is one of the MBA Program’s most popular electives, designed to facilitate a semester-long client project between international organizations and MBA student consultants. Read more March 27, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Erfan Parvini, Undergraduate Erfan is from Shiraz, Iran, and completing his undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Finance. He describes himself as a student who is “deeply passionate” about how the world functions, both economically and politically. Prior to coming to the United States for his undergraduate degree, Erfan says he extensively researched several business schools and decided Scheller College was the best choice for him. Read more March 27, 2019 U.S. News & World Report Features Scheller College in Business School Diversity Story The soon-to-be-released Best Business Schools 2020 issue from U.S. News & World Report features Scheller College in an article "What to Consider About Business School Diversity - MBA programs are stepping up efforts to recruit and retain women and minorities." Read more March 26, 2019 Scheller College of Business Undergraduate Kat Matthews Named a Surfer Kat Matthews (BSBA 2019) joins twenty-two other Georgia Tech students in the second class of Sustainable Undergraduate Research Fellows (SURF). The Fellows represent all six colleges at Georgia Tech and were selected from a highly qualified and competitive field of students. Read more March 25, 2019 Countdown to Commencement: Aashal Dave, Undergraduate As part of Scheller’s Countdown to Commencement series, we interviewed a few soon-to-be graduates from our Undergraduate, MBA and Ph.D. programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do after Spring 2019 commencement. Read more March 25, 2019 Georgia Tech Hosted Eastern Regional Global Social Venture Competition Finals The Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC) empowers the next generation of social entrepreneurs by providing them with mentoring, exposure, and over $80,000 in prizes to transform their ideas into ventures that address the world’s most pressing challenges using technology for good. Read more March 25, 2019 Scheller College’s Shane Phillipps (BSBA 2019) and Meredith Wolpert (BSBA 2019) Selected Poets & Quants Undergrads “Best and Brightest Class of 2019” Poets & Quants Undergrads "Best and Brightest Class of 2019" features two of Scheller’s own stellar undergraduate students – Shane Phillipps and Meredith Wolpert. The article names them as two of the 100 fearless champions and gifted catalysts that comprise the Best and Brightest Class of 2019. Read more March 22, 2019 Record Attendance at Fifth Annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop More than 50 scholars from the United States, Asia, and Europe convened at the University of San Diego for the Fifth Annual Early-Career Sustainable Operations Workshop earlier this month. Read more March 21, 2019 Scheller College of Business Recognized by Poets & Quants as Top 5 Business School for 3-Month Job Placement In a recent Poet & Quants article "Job Placement Rates At The Leading B-Schools" Scheller College of Business was ranked in the top five schools for placement rate 90 days after graduation. With a rate of 97.2% Scheller’s Jones MBA Career Center placed third in the country. Read more March 20, 2019 Leaders on Leadership: A Conversation with Mike Duke, President and CEO of Walmart (retired) and Dean Maryam Alavi Michael (Mike) Duke, retired president and chief executive officer, of Walmart discusses leadership with Dean Alavi Read more March 19, 2019 Undergrads Travis King and Sam Medinger talk internships with big Atlanta corporations last summer. On this episode of The Intersection, we sat down with Travis King and Sam Medinger to talk about their internships with big Atlanta corporations last summer. Sam spent the summer on the Leverage Finance team with SunTrust Robinson Humphry and Travis worked for Delta Airlines on the One Delta team. Read more March 13, 2019 Scheller College of Business Rises In Latest U.S. News & World Report Rankings The Full-time MBA program at Scheller College of Business is ranked No. 10 for public schools in the recently released graduate school rankings for 2020 by U.S. News & World Report. Read more March 11, 2019 CBS This Morning features Scheller College’s Peter Swire in story on Genetic Testing CBS This Morning features Scheller College’s Peter Swire in story on genetic testing. Read more March 11, 2019 Women’s Day Brunch Connects Students and Alumnae In recognition of International Women’s Day in March, Scheller College women, both current students and alumnae from Evening and Full-time MBA programs, gathered for a celebratory brunch. The women gathered to share life lessons, continue to connect, and provide support within the thriving Georgia Tech community. Read more March 08, 2019 International Women’s Day Event Sparks Discussion Around Career Journeys of Two Successful Businesswomen In celebration of International Women’s Day, Scheller College of Business hosted “The Journey to the Top,” a breakfast discussion moderated by Dean Maryam Alavi featuring Senior Vice President of Home Services (retired) at The Home Depot Inc., Kelly Barrett, and President and Co-Founder of Kabbage Inc., Kathryn Petralia. Read more March 08, 2019 Intersection Podcast Celebrates International Women’s Day 2019 The Intersection sat down with three of Scheller College’s rockstar women MBA candidates in celebration of International Women’s Day 2019. Read more March 08, 2019 Scheller College MBA Student Among Poets & Quants’ “Top Indian Students From the Class of 2020” Scheller College of Business MBA student Yash Lakhotia was named among Poets & Quants’ “Top Indian Students From the Class of 2020." Read more March 07, 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Spotlight: Kiera Patterson Kiera Patterson completed her undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech and is now a Full-time MBA student at Scheller College of Business. She's also a 2019 Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Fellow. Read more March 07, 2019 Scheller College Alumna Chris Hagler Talks Investor Focus on Sustainability Scheller Alumna Chris Hagler recently spoke at the College about investor focus on sustainability. Read more March 04, 2019 Dean Maryam Alavi Talks Business School Trends with Sky Magazine Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi recently discussed shifts she’s seen in students entering business programs today. Read more March 01, 2019 Diversity & Inclusion Spotlight: Dionne Nickerson Dionne Nickerson is a Ph.D. candidate in Marketing at Scheller College of Business and Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Fellow. Read more March 01, 2019 Charles Mulford Analyzes U.S. Economy Data; Makes Recession Prediction Scheller College of Business accounting professor Charles Mulford discussed the U.S. economy and loom of a recession in a recent interview with CFO magazine. Read more February 28, 2019 Artists Unite to Tell Story of Sustainable Business In February, The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business opened its doors for an event unlike any other hosted in the five years since its founding. Read more February 28, 2019 Dean Maryam Alavi Presents “Women & Leadership: An Era of Innovation & Opportunity” at Georgia Tech Diversity and Inclusion Program Dean Maryam Alavi recently led a discussion for the Georgia Tech Leading Women@Tech program. Read more February 28, 2019 Georgia Tech Among Top 2019 “Pre-College Summer Programs” Georgia Tech is ranked No. 17 in “Top 30 Pre-College Summer Programs For 2019,” according to College Consensus. Read more February 27, 2019 Two Scheller College MBA Students Among Poets & Quants’ “The Women of the Class of 2020” Roundup Two Scheller College MBA students are included in Poets & Quants’ “The Women of the Class of 2020” roundup. Read more February 27, 2019 Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw Shares Diversity and Inclusion Best Practices at Scheller College Trailblazer Nzinga Shaw recently shared diversity and inclusion best practices at Scheller College. Read more February 26, 2019 Andrei Iancu, Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, Leads Scheller College Discussion on Innovation Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office and Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property Andrei Iancu led a discussion at Scheller College of Business on innovation and invention. Read more February 26, 2019 Scheller College Student Named Poets & Quants’ "10 Military Veterans To Watch From The MBA Class of 2020” Navy veteran and Scheller student Ben Crom is among Poets & Quants' "10 Military Veterans To Watch From the MBA Class of 2020." Read more February 22, 2019 Polly Sattler Talks Sustainability at the World’s Busiest Airport at Impact Series Polly Sattler, senior sustainability and resilience planner at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, presented a discussion at ILE's weekly Impact Speaker Series. Read more February 21, 2019 Beril Toktay Weighs Fast Furniture Effect on Environment Beril Toktay talks fast furniture and the trend's effects on the environment. Read more February 18, 2019 Scheller College Professor Jeffrey Hales Continues Dialogue on Sustainability Reporting Standards Scheller College's Jeffrey Hale says capital markets are "hungry" for better information on sustainability performance. Read more February 15, 2019 Matt Pfaltzgraf, Founder and CEO of Softgiving, Visits Scheller College of Business for Impact Series Matt Pfaltzgraf, Founder and CEO of Softgiving, Visits Scheller College of Business for Impact Series Read more February 14, 2019 Evening MBA Sawyer Williamson talks about his journey in entrepreneurship Sawyer is pursuing his Evening MBA at Georgia Tech to help his company better meet their goals. He is aware that today’s business world requires a little more understanding and study than it did 30 years ago. At his admissions interview he fell in love with the technical nature and history of Georgia Tech. Sawyer has already used everything from every course he’s taken at Scheller. Read more February 14, 2019 Georgia Works Founder Bill McGahan Kicks Off 2019 Impact Speaker Series Bill McGahan, founder of the program Georgia Works, kicked off the Institute for Leadership and Entrepreneurship's 2019 Impact Speaker Series. Read more February 14, 2019 How Does Financial Misreporting Impact Borrower Reputation? Misreporting firms experience an increase of 20-86% in their interest rate spread in the first eight years after they restate previously inaccurate financial information. Read more February 11, 2019 Charles Mulford Analyzes Bottom Line Change After New Accounting Standards Implementation Scheller College's Charles Mulford recently examined how a new accounting standard will affect companies' -- such as GE -- bottom line. Read more February 08, 2019 Home Depot Chief Diversity Officer Beatriz Rodriguez Talks Diversity and Inclusion at Impact Speaker Series Beatriz Rodriguez, chief diversity officer at The Home Depot, discussed diversity and inclusion at a recent Impact Speaker Series. Read more February 07, 2019 Executive MBA student podcast: Christian White talks about his journey with entrepreneurism After Christian White completed 6.5 years as an Army Officer he decided he wanted to transition to civilian life and pursue an MBA, where Georgia Tech was at the top of his list. Read more February 04, 2019 Tech Alumnus and Former Medtronic CEO Bill George Returns to Campus for Impact William “Bill” George candidly shared his career and life experiences at a recent Scheller College of Business Impact Speaker Series. Read more February 01, 2019 Scheller College Professor Remembers Former Student-Athlete and Current New England Patriot Guard Shaq Mason Scheller College of Business professor Debby Turner recently reflected on former student and NFL standout Shaq Mason in an interview with Atlanta's WSB-TV. Find out why the star made a return to Tech's campus. Read more January 28, 2019 Scheller College Center Managing Director Among Judges for NFL "1st and Future" Competition Managing Director of the Business Analytics Center at Scheller College Keith Werle is a judge for the NFL's 2019 "1st and Future" competition. Read more January 23, 2019 Scheller College Undergraduate Student Profiled in 'Getting to Know Georgia Tech' Valdosta native Sara Jensen is the latest profile in the 'Getting to Know Georgia Tech' series. Find out why she chose to come to Georgia Tech, what she loves about being a Scheller undergraduate student, and more. Read more January 22, 2019 Undergrad Corporate Internships - The Intersection Podcast at Scheller On this episode of The Intersection we sat down with Darby Foster, Rachel Luckcuck, and Matt Webster to talk about their internships with some large corporations. All three of our guests worked in the IT space with these companies and are part of the Denning Technology and Management (T&M) Program at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more January 16, 2019 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Female Alumnus Promoted to Rank of Brigadier General Tina Boyd, a Scheller College of Business alumnus, was recently promoted to the rank of Brigadier General in the U.S. Army Reserve. Find out why she chose to have her promotion ceremony on Georgia Tech's campus. Read more January 15, 2019 Scheller College Dual-degree Student Hopes To Change the World Engineer Victoria Dean left a burgeoning career to pursue a joint Scheller College of Business MBA and Ph.D. program with Georgia Tech's College of Engineering. Read more January 14, 2019 Scheller College Among Poets & Quants “10 Business Schools To Watch In 2019” Scheller College of Business has been selected as one of Poets & Quants’ “10 Business Schools To Watch In 2019.” Read more January 07, 2019 Scheller College Ph.D. Candidates Answer: Are Perfectionists Better Performers at Work? Scheller College Ph.D. candidates Amy Breidenthal and Dana Harari recently researched the performance of perfectionists at work. Their findings may surprise you. Read more January 04, 2019 Scheller College Receives Gold Recognition Through the Georgia Tech Work Green Program Scheller College is the first and largest entity on the Georgia Tech campus to be awarded the highest level of certification through the Work Green program. Read more January 03, 2019 MBA Student Podcast: Internships at Nike On this episode of The Intersection our host, first-year MBA student Jasmine Howard, talks to four of Scheller’s six second year full-time MBA students that interned at Nike this past summer. Read more December 20, 2018 Scheller MBA Students Place Third in Deloitte Supply Chain Challenge A team of first-year, Full-time Scheller MBA students placed third in the national finals of the 6th Annual Deloitte SCNO Supply Chain Challenge hosted on the University of Southern California's campus. Read more December 20, 2018 Scheller College MBA Students Head West for Annual Tech Trek Scheller MBA students paid a visit to the San Francisco Bay Area for the College’s annual West Coast Tech Trek for visits to some of the world’s leading technology and strategy companies. Read more December 19, 2018 Scheller College undergraduate student interviews Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta Air Lines We continue our series where Scheller undergraduate students interview notable Scheller College alumni, CEOs, and prominent C-level executives, tapping into their business expertise and more. In part-two of the series, fifth-year Business Administration student Travis King interviews Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta Air Lines. Read more December 17, 2018 Scheller College of Business Celebrates Fall 2018 Undergraduate Commencement Georgia Tech’s Fall 2018 Undergraduate Commencement featured a keynote address by former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Read more December 14, 2018 Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi Co-hosts “Fireside Chat” on Artificial Intelligence and the Workforce of the Future at Accenture Atlanta's Innovation Hub Opening Scheller Dean Maryam Alavi co-hosted a discussion at the opening of Accenture Atlanta's Innovation Hub to explain how artificial intelligence is changing the workforce game. Read more December 13, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Nia Hall Nia is from Philadelphia and completing her undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Operations & Supply Chain Management and a certificate in Business Analytics. Read more December 13, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Rebecca Von Der Heide Rebecca thinks the biggest myth about Scheller College is that the classes are filled with engineers. "One of the things I loved most about Scheller is the incredible diversity." Read more December 12, 2018 Carbon Reduction Challenge Wins Sustainability Education Awards in Global Competition Georgia Tech’s Carbon Reduction Challenge, a program that helps students design and implement large-scale projects to save energy, received two first-place awards at the 2018 Reimagine Education Conference & Awards in San Francisco. Read more December 12, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Carolanne Lott Carolanne chose to pursue her Evening MBA at Scheller because of its “great reputation for STEM-focused MBAs, especially for those with a STEM background like me.” Read more December 12, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Farrah Fakhraee Farrah chose to pursue her Evening MBA at Scheller because “having a background in intellectual property law, it was important for me to join an evening program that would allow me to work full-time, offer challenging courses, and provide networking opportunities that would help me change careers.” Read more December 11, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Hannah Todd During her final semester at Scheller, Hannah was chosen as only the fourth woman driver of the iconic Ramblin' Wreck and was also crowned 'Ms. Georgia Tech' at 2018 Homecoming. Read more December 11, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Anne Gusler Anne is a Dean's Scholar who's almost completed her undergraduate degree in Business Administration at Scheller. (She's also a distant relative of President Abraham Lincoln.) Read more December 11, 2018 Scheller College of Business Professor Jeffrey Hales Rings Opening Bell at NASDAQ and London Stock Exchange Scheller Professor and Chair of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Jeffrey Hales recently rang the opening bell at NASDAQ and the London Stock Exchange as part of a worldwide tour to celebrate the launch of 77 sustainability accounting standards for global markets. Read more December 10, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: David Boyer Though David was already a graduate student majoring in Civil Engineering here at Georgia Tech, he saw the benefit of a dual-degree program and chose to pursue a Full-time MBA at Scheller College of Business. Read more December 10, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Mark Bailey Mark chose Scheller's Executive MBA program because he wanted to "attend the best school with a program designed specifically to incorporate business and technology." Read more December 09, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Peter Johnson Peter is completing his Evening MBA and says "Scheller provides opportunities to interact with Atlanta businesses and leadership in a way that is unique and invaluable." Read more December 07, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jacquelyn Renée Schneider Jacquelyn is completing her third master's degree in Scheller's Evening MBA program and is a soon-to-be "Double Jacket," having graduated from Georgia Tech in 2006. Earlier in 2018, she participated in the Japan Practicum, consulting for a prototype machining company based in Kyoto. Read more December 06, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Sam Medinger Sam is a Bergmark Family Dean's Scholar recipient who participated in the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program. Read more December 05, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Naomi O’Halloran Naomi chose Scheller College after attending the Dean’s Scholarship Interview Day where she interacted with the faculty, administration, and current students, who all had a lasting impact on her. Read more December 05, 2018 Got Impact? The weekly Impact Speaker Series offers students, faculty, and staff the opportunity to hear from, and network with, industry leaders from both the corporate and social sectors. Read more December 04, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Lonnie Williams Jr. Undergraduate Lonnie not only interned with his top choice, the Boeing Company, three times during his time at Scheller, he has also accepted a position at Boeing as a member of its Information Technology Career Foundation Program (ITCFP) in Charleston after graduation. Read more December 04, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Malcolm Danmola Malcolm is from Albany, Georgia, and is completing his undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Information Technology Management. Not only has Michael visited 10 countries in seven years, he prides himself on being a “total foodie,” who enjoys trying new cuisines and learning about other cultures. Read more December 04, 2018 Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Reflects on the Past, Present, and Future of Atlanta Sustainability Michael Oxman and L. Beril Toktay of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business highlight achievements in Atlanta’s sustainability efforts. Read more December 03, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Gabriel Prado Buenos Aires native, Gabriel, is completing his Executive MBA (EMBA) in Global Business. Read more December 03, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Megan Houlihan Megan is from Kennesaw, Georgia, and finishing her Evening MBA degree with concentrations in Business Analytics and Strategy & Innovation Finance. She describes herself as a “problem solver with a love of learning and exploration.” Read more December 03, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Rishi Patel Rishi is completing his undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Finance. After graduation, he’ll be heading North to work for PricewaterhouseCoopers in Boston. Read more December 03, 2018 The Intersection - Undergrad Finance Internships Have you ever wanted to know what it’s like to intern at one of the most prestigious financial institutions in the world? Listen as three Scheller College of Business undergraduate students talk about their summer internships with Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, and Point72. Read more November 30, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Audrey Rose Arnold Audrey studied abroad twice during her pursuit of an undergraduate Business Administration degree at Scheller. Read more November 30, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Hunter Dreidame Hunter chose to pursue his MBA at Scheller College of Business because he completed his undergraduate degree at Georgia Tech and says he knew "just how challenging another Tech degree would be." Read more November 29, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jerel Jordan Jerel chose to pursue his Evening MBA at Scheller College of Business because "it is the perfect place for an engineer transitioning into business." Read more November 29, 2018 Scheller College of Business MBA Students Profiled in Poets & Quants ‘Meet the Class of 2020’ Each year, Poets & Quants selects top business schools to feature for an incoming MBA class profile. For the first time ever, Scheller College of Business MBA was selected, providing an opportunity for members of the incoming 2020 class to highlight their life journeys, why they’ve chosen Scheller, their career goals, and more. Read more November 28, 2018 Provost Rafael Bras Delivers 'Ethical Lessons In My Leadership Journey' at Scheller Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Georgia Tech Provost, Rafael Bras, detailed various ethical dilemmas he’s faced during his 43-year career in academia in his 'Ethical Lessons In My Leadership Journey' at Scheller College’s Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics. Read more November 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Claire Kirkpatrick Claire interned for Georgia-Pacific and Chick-fil-A during her time as an undergraduate Business Administration student at Scheller. Read more November 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: René Meadors René is from Covington, Georgia, and completing her Evening MBA degree. The “business-minded scientist” loves “running, cooking, and music,” and names Arn Rubinoff as her favorite professor during her time in the program. Read more November 26, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Walker Watson Savannah native Walker is completing his undergraduate Business Administration degree with a concentration in Operations & Supply Chain and a minor in Engineering and Business through the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program. During his time in the program, he traveled to 20 European countries while studying abroad at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Read more November 26, 2018 Scheller College Undergraduate Student Interviews College alumnus Paul Brown, CEO of Inspire Brands We are pleased to introduce a new series where Scheller College of Business undergraduate students interview notable Scheller alumni, CEOs, and prominent C-level executives. In this entry, undergraduate Cole Ormsby interviews Scheller alumnus and CEO of Inspire Brands, Paul Brown. Read more November 23, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Cajgie McGaha Dickey It has been Cajgie's dream for the past 30 years to graduate with a degree from Georgia Tech. In a few weeks, she will receive her Executive MBA from Scheller College of Business. Read more November 22, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Annie Son In between selling flowers from her flower garden on the weekends, Annie is pursuing her undergraduate Business Administration degree at Scheller. Read more November 20, 2018 Scheller College’s Jonathan Clarke and Jacqueline Garner named “Top 50 Undergraduate Business Professors” by Poets & Quants for Undergrads Scheller College of Business Professor Jonathan Clarke and Lecturer Jacqueline Garner were selected as two of Poets & Quants’ 2018 “Top 50 Undergraduate Business Professors.” Read more November 19, 2018 Celebrating Scheller College of Business 2018 Dean’s Scholars and Benefactors The annual Scheller College of Business Dean's Scholars Dinner provided an opportunity for recipients across all years of the undergraduate program to come together with the generous benefactors of the program. Read more November 16, 2018 Steve Salbu of Scheller College Talks Ethics Ahead of Ethics Awareness Week Professor Steve Salbu kicked off the University System of Georgia’s Ethics Awareness Week at Georgia Tech with an interview. Read more November 15, 2018 Scheller College Professor Peter Swire Discusses Hartsfield-Jackson Airport Biometrics with WABE Peter Swire, Professor of Law and Ethics and Associate Director for Policy of the Georgia Tech Institute for Information Security and Privacy, was interviewed by WABE’s Closer Look with Rose Scott to discuss the upcoming launch of Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport’s facial recognition check-in technology. Read more November 14, 2018 Scheller College of Business Analytics Center Hosts Breakfast and Career & Internship Expo Scheller College Business Analytics Center (BAC) hosted its Leaders Breakfast and Career & Internship Expo, welcoming some of the top technology companies in Atlanta. Read more November 13, 2018 Scheller College M.D./MBA Dual Degree Featured in Diverse: Issues of Higher Education Diverse: Issues In Higher Education profiled the Scheller College and Morehouse School of Medicine M.D./MBA dual-degree program. Read more November 12, 2018 Scheller College of Business Rises to #2 in the U.S. and #6 Globally in the Corporate Knights 2018 Better World MBA Ranking The Better World MBA Ranking is recognized as the only major ranking that evaluates accredited MBA programs’ commitment to equipping graduates with the skills necessary to solve pressing business and social challenges in order to succeed in a rapidly evolving global business climate. The ranking evaluates curriculum, research, and centers related to sustainability, as well as faculty diversity, across the top 100 schools on the Financial Times’ Global MBA Ranking. Read more November 09, 2018 Scheller College of Business Observes Veterans Day 2018 In recognition of Veterans Day, the Intersection Podcast sat down with three of our active duty and veteran MBA students to talk about their experiences in the military and at Scheller College and how both are helping to shape their futures. Read more November 08, 2018 Scheller College Students Participate in Service-Learning Exercise Four Scheller College of Business undergraduate students participated in the College’s Management in the Healthcare Sector (MGT 3662) course’s first Serve-Learn-Sustain (SLS)-inspired exercise. Read more November 02, 2018 Scheller College of Business Hosts Part Three of Digital Disruption Series Part three of the Digital Disruption series explored how digital innovations in strategy, customer experience design, advanced customer analytics, omni-channel campaigns, and e-commerce are transforming the customer journey and creating compelling customer experiences. Read more October 29, 2018 Scheller College Hosts VETLANTA Q4 Education Summit Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business hosted the VETLANTA Q4 Education Summit on Oct. 25 as part of its continuing support of the Atlanta community’s military men and women and their dedicated services. Read more October 25, 2018 How Does a Firm’s Environmental Profile Impact Its Cost of Equity and Debt Capital? How do a firm’s environmental strengths and concerns influence the interest rate it receives when borrowing money from financial institutions? How does a firm’s environmental footprint (its environmental strengths and concerns) affect the return required by investors? Is a firm’s environmental profile simply a substitute for unaccounted default risk? Do environmental concerns influence the number of institutional investors a firm has or the number of banks from which they borrow money? Read more October 22, 2018 Scheller College Instructors Recognized by Campus Award Eleven Scheller College of Business instructors are winners of the Class of 1940 Course Survey Teaching Effectiveness Award for courses offered in Fall 2017 and Spring 2018. Read more October 16, 2018 Scheller College Students Crowned at 2018 Homecoming Scheller College of Business students James Ni (BSMA 2019) and Hannah Todd (BSBA 2018) won big as they were crowned 2018 “Mr. and Ms. Georgia Tech.” Read more October 15, 2018 Ernest Scheller Jr. Makes Second Visit of the Year to Namesake College Ramblin’ Wreck driver Hannah Todd (BSBA 2018) made a special appearance at Scheller College of Business to welcome none other than the College's namesake – Ernest Scheller Jr. (IM 1952, HON Ph.D. 2013). Read more October 10, 2018 Four-Year Award Announced for Georgia Tech’s CIBER Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi announced Georgia Tech’s Center for International Business Education and Research (GT CIBER) regional center of excellence -- based at the Scheller College of Business, serving the Georgia Tech academic and Georgia business communities -- was successful in its eighth national round of competition for a four-year award. Read more October 10, 2018 Scheller College Professor Jonathan Clarke Talks Dollars and Sense The fall 2018 issue of the Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine features Scheller College of Business Associate Professor of Finance Jonathan Clarke discussing his work instructing students at Georgia Tech’s own Wall Street, the Ferris-Goldsmith Trading Floor, a 2,000-square-foot facility equipped with dual-screen computers and scrolling stock ticker displays. Read more October 10, 2018 Scheller Professor Beril Toktay Reflects on Diversity and GT ADVANCE Program Scheller College of Business Professor Beril Toktay was featured in the fall 2018 issue of the Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine to talk about her experiences in academia and her commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion through her work as a Georgia Tech ADVANCE professor. Read more October 08, 2018 The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) celebrates its fifth anniversary this year. Launched in 2013 as the Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability, the Center was renamed after a $5 million commitment from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. Anderson – a Georgia Tech alumnus (IE 1956, Honorary Ph.D 2011) -- founded and served as chairman of Interface. Read more October 01, 2018 2018 Annual Dean’s Report Scheller College remains committed to setting the standard as an innovative business school of the 21st century. As such, we are pleased to share our 2018 Annual Dean’s Report. This report provides an overview of our accomplishments and activities throughout the year and tracks our progress against our 2020 strategic plan. Read more October 01, 2018 Professor Atalay Atasu Rethinks Sustainability in Harvard Business Review The passage of the EU’s Circular Economy Package in April placed many European companies in the face of mandates to reuse products they create for as long as possible. Read more October 01, 2018 Study Reveals “Greenwashing” Does Not Appear to be Prevalent Academic researchers at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recently studied whether companies that make positive discretionary environmental announcements in the press improve their overall environmental performance more than companies that do not. Read more September 24, 2018 White Coats and Yellow Jackets On Friday, September 21, Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi and Morehouse School of Medicine President and Dean Dr. Valerie Montgomery Rice announced a dual-degree partnership between Scheller College of Business (SCOB) and Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) that will enable MSM M.D. students to complete their medical and business degrees in just five years. Read more September 13, 2018 A Conversation with Delta Air Lines CEO Ed Bastian and Dean Maryam Alavi Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business proudly hosted Ed Bastian, CEO of Delta Air Lines, for a conversation with Dean Maryam Alavi discussing leadership, strategy, and Delta Air Lines' innovative culture. The interactive discussion provided insight into Delta's core values, including their strong commitment to employees and customers, as well as strategies to confront the challenges posed by a rapidly-changing digital climate. Read more September 13, 2018 White Coats - Yellow Jackets Q&A with Scheller College of Business’s Two Newest Soon-to-Be Doctors Q&A with Scheller College of Business’s Two Newest Soon-to-Be Doctors. Scheller College of Business and Morehouse School of Medicine have partnered to offer a joint, five-year M.D./MBA degree. Read more September 12, 2018 What's Next in Tech Square? Tech Square Phase III will be located on the northwest corner of West Peachtree and Fifth streets. Initial programming envisions a two-tower complex for the first phase, which will likely contain graduate and executive education for the Ernest Scheller Jr. College of Business, the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering, and other programming. Read more September 07, 2018 Georgia-Pacific’s Kathy Walters Kicks off Impact Speaker Series Discussing “Choices to Make in Your Life and Career” “It was different then. We didn’t have a word like ‘pivoting;’ it was just called ‘leaving,’” candidly remarked Kathy Walters at the Impact Speaker Series. Kathy, Group President of Georgia-Pacific’s Consumer Products Group, visited Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business to speak on “Choices to Make in Your Life and Career” and the benefits of exploring different roles, companies, and cities. The session was moderated by Lisa Carlson (BSBA 2012), a Scheller College Steven A. Denning Technology & Management alumna and National Accounts Manager at Georgia-Pacific. Read more September 07, 2018 Scheller College of Business MBA Programs Office Receives Diversity Champion Unit Award Scheller College’s MBA Programs Office was selected as the 2018 recipient of the Diversity Champion Unit Award and will receive the award at the Georgia Tech Diversity Symposium Awards luncheon, September 5, 2018. Read more September 05, 2018 Scheller College Welcomes a Record-number of Women in its 2018 Incoming Class This year’s incoming classes at Scheller College of Business boast an impressive, record-percentage of women including 40% for both Full-time and Evening MBA, 30% for Executive MBA, and 43% for Undergraduate. Read more September 05, 2018 September’s Sky magazine Showcases Scheller College’s Innovation The September issue of Delta Air Lines’ Sky Magazine features Scheller College of Business in an in-depth business education story titled “Accelerating Success - the days of the cookie-cutter entrepreneur are over. Incubators, accelerators and business education programs are stepping up to provide new paths for diverse startups.” Read more August 31, 2018 Fourth Woman Driver Behind the Wheel of Georgia Tech’s Ramblin’ Wreck Hannah Todd (BSBA 2019) will lead the football team onto the field for the 2018 kickoff. At this time last year, Hannah Todd didn’t know how to drive a stick shift. Now she’s behind the wheel of one of America’s most iconic cars. Todd, a business major in Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech, spent hours upon hours this summer learning the intricacies of driving a 1930 Model A Ford Sport Coupe. Former drivers helped Todd “get her skills.” Read more August 29, 2018 Scheller College of Business Undergraduates Celebrate Opening Bell 2018 Scheller College of Business officially welcomed its incoming class of first-year and transfer students at its time-honored Opening Bell tradition, August 28, 2018. The event, sponsored by Acuity Brands, included a welcome from Dean Maryam Alavi where she encouraged students to tap into the unique Tech Square ecosystem, find their career path, and learn how to learn. Read more August 23, 2018 Is Tax Avoidance a Sustainability Issue? How does tax avoidance raise issues related to sustainability? Read more August 03, 2018 Dean Maryam Alavi Outlines Multi-Faceted Diversity Efforts in Atlanta Business Chronicle In an editorial featured in Atlanta Business Chronicle’s July 27, 2018 Executive Education guide, Dean Maryam Alavi outlined the wide range of efforts within Scheller College of Business and throughout Georgia Tech in pursuit of a more diverse and inclusive campus. Read more August 01, 2018 Scheller College Continues LifeLong Learning Webinars with Blockchain Technology and Bitcoin Adding to its already successful LifeLong Learning series, Scheller College of Business recently hosted a LifeLong Learning webinar for MBA alumni. The webinar, hosted by Professor Eric Overby, discussed the origin of blockchain technology, its role as a transaction ledger for Bitcoin, and the future of blockchain applications. Read more July 18, 2018 MBA Alumni Anna Babinets, Reemon Silverman, and Alex Walsh Among 2018 ‘MBAs to Watch’ Scheller College is proud to announce that recent Full-time MBA alumni Anna Babinets, Reemon Silverman, and Alex Walsh have been featured by Poets & Quants (P&Q) as “MBAs to Watch” for the Class of 2018. The P&Q “MBAs to Watch” list annually celebrates students with exceptional professional promise who’ve made a lasting impact on their business schools. Read more July 13, 2018 Lecturer Jacqueline Garner Featured as Transcendent Teacher Scheller College faculty are often described as innovative and accessible, and now one instructor has been named “transcendent.” Jacqueline Garner, lecturer in finance, was recently recognized among her Institute peers in Georgia Tech Alumni Association (GTAA) magazine as Scheller College’s Transcendent Teacher. Read more June 29, 2018 Dean Maryam Alavi and Jones MBA Career Center Participate at MBA CSEA Global Conference One of the Jones MBA Career Center’s favorite annual traditions is traveling as a team each summer to the MBA Career Services & Employer Alliance (CSEA) Global Conference for networking and professional development. This year they traveled to Miami with an additional Scheller College attendee in tow, Dean Maryam Alavi. Read more June 28, 2018 A Sustainable & Socially Responsible Career I stood in the sunny atrium of the Atlanta Hilton Hotel, taking in the sights and sounds of women networking with representatives from companies and organizations sponsoring the 2018 Forté MBA Women’s Leadership Conference. The conference, hosted by the Forté Foundation from June 15-16, 2018, was advertised as an event where women could “explore career paths, meet recruiters and mentors, and hear from today’s most influential businesswomen.” When the Scheller College of Business (in which I am a second-year student in the Evening MBA Program) offered me a ticket to the conference, I jumped at the opportunity to attend. Read more June 26, 2018 How Does the Stock Market React to Announcements of Environmental Initiatives? How do announcements of environmentally friendly initiatives affect the shareholder value of publicly traded companies? Read more June 25, 2018 EMBAs Amy Evans and Maureen Portee Named P&Q Best and Brightest Scheller College is proud to announce that Amy Evans and Maureen Portee have been selected by Poets & Quants (P&Q) as “The Best & Brightest EMBAs” for the Class of 2018. The P&Q “Best and Brightest EMBAs” list annually celebrates students who’ve made a lasting impact on their business schools. Read more June 21, 2018 Center Announces Delta as Inaugural Participant in Corporate Sustainability Program Executive Council The Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business (“Center”) has announced that Delta Air Lines will be the first participant in the Center’s Corporate Sustainability Program (CSP) Executive Council. Through the CSP, the Center seeks to collaborate with leading companies that share a vision for developing sustainability leaders and shaping a new economy that offers a more sustainable future for all. Read more June 19, 2018 Jones MBA Career Center Names Dave Deiters Executive Director Scheller College of Business Jones MBA Career Center proudly announces Dave Deiters as its Executive Director. Dave brings over 35 years of senior leadership experience from the management consulting and technology industries, including North Highland and Accenture. He follows Jim Kranzusch, who retired in May. Read more June 18, 2018 Scheller Women Celebrate the Forté MBA Women’s Leadership Conference in Atlanta Each summer, hundreds of MBA women gather for Forté Foundation’s MBA Women’s Leadership Conference for career preparation, professional development, and networking. With the 2018 conference in Atlanta, Scheller College boasted over 50 attendees and contributed panelists throughout the conference weekend. Read more June 13, 2018 Atalay Atasu Named Sustainable Operations Departmental Editor of the Production and Operations Management Journal It is with great pleasure that we announce Atalay Atasu has been named the new Departmental Editor of the Sustainable Operations division of the Production and Operations Management Journal. The Production and Operations Management Journal is one of the premier journals in Operations Management and the flagship journal of the Production and Operations Management Society. Read more June 12, 2018 MBA Alumni Share Insights for Employers for Recruitment at Scheller College The Jones MBA Career Center at Scheller College of Business proudly welcomed over 30 employers and recruiters to campus June 7 for its annual MBA Employer Summit. As part of the collaborative event agenda, a panel of recent MBA alumni joined the Summit to provide their perspective on practicum experiences and recruitment. The panelists offered the attendees insights into the MBA students’ side of recruitment, highlighting the tactics that were most impactful to them. Read more June 11, 2018 MBA Employer Summit Showcases Collaboration Between Employers and Jones MBA Career Center The Jones MBA Career Center at the Scheller College of Business proudly welcomed over 30 employers and recruiters to campus June 7 for its annual MBA Employer Summit. The theme of the day was collaborative engagement — both in program content and the summit activities. With organizations representing a variety of industries, company sizes, and workplace cultures, the event was a microcosm of Atlanta’s vibrant and diverse business environment. Read more June 07, 2018 Kevin Stacia Elected to Board of Directors for the MBA Career Services and Employer Alliance Scheller College is proud to recognize Kevin Stacia, Corporate Relations Manager in the Jones MBA Career Center, for his recent election to the Board of Directors of the MBA Career Services and Employer Alliance (CSEA). Founded in 1994, CSEA is the premier provider of education, information, and expertise for the support and development of individuals in MBA career management and employment professions Read more May 31, 2018 Scheller College Faculty Recommend Summer Reading for MBA Alumni Scheller College professors are constantly reading, so they know a good book when they see one. We asked professors to share interesting books related to their fields that they thought our MBA alumni would enjoy reading this summer. And, we promise, there’s no test at the end! See what they recommend. Read more May 29, 2018 Captech Announces Partnership with Scheller College Of Business at Georgia Tech Business Analytics Center CapTech, an IT management consulting company, is pleased to announce its partnership with Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech Business Analytics Center. As part of its partnership, CapTech is joining other local companies as Executive Council members, in supporting programs that benefit students, industry, and the analytics community. Read more May 25, 2018 Professors Basak Kalkanci and Ravi Subramanian Publish on Toxic Materials Emissions Reporting The annual federal report on toxic material emissions from industrial sites across the country gains widespread media attention and serves as a reminder of the potential environmental impacts of industrial activities. But a team of researchers at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business wondered whether federal regulators can persuade companies to abandon toxic chemicals by simply highlighting that information. Read more May 24, 2018 Alumnus Larry Huang Leads Mayo Clinic Collaboration with Georgia Tech Capstone Team Since graduating from Scheller College with a degree in industrial management in 1973, Larry Huang’s entrepreneurial spirit has led him to many roles: co-founder of the Ciena Corporation, race car driver, and philanthropist, supporting the Huang Executive Education Center in Scheller College and endowing the Lawrence P. Huang Chair in Engineering Entrepreneurship at Georgia Tech. Read more May 24, 2018 Gail Evans Discusses Gender Imbalance in News Media on NPR's On Point Scheller College's Gail Evans joined NPR's On Point today to discuss the gender imbalance in news media, alongside panelists from The New York Times and The Atlantic. Prior to joining Scheller College, Gail served as Executive Vice President of CNN. In the On Point panel, she noted, "What we kept discovering at CNN was behind 90% of these important men on the air, there was some woman who was the researcher, or doing the briefing paper for them, or even answering the questions when the researcher called-- but they were never in front of the camera." Read more May 23, 2018 Scheller Alumnus Lucien de Voux Shares How He Keeps Up-To-Date in His Industry MBA Class of 2014 alumnus Lucien de Voux, Director of Market Planning at LexisNexis Risk Solutions, finds it extremely important to keep abreast of industry trends and funding in the private equity markets. Actually, it’s critical for his job. “My role allows me to ideate new products and marketing strategies,” he shared, “to help serve a diverse set of companies in FinTech, eCommerce, and sharing economy.” Read more May 22, 2018 Why Businesses Should Not Be Allowed to Invoke Religious Exemptions Should there be a religious exemption for secular businesses from public accommodation statutes that protect prospective patrons from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation? Read more May 11, 2018 Dean Maryam Alavi Addresses the Future of Retail Technology at Tech Square Innovation Week For one week each spring, Tech Square’s identity as of one of the nation’s most successful ecosystems of ideation and disruption is on display as part of Tech Square Innovation Week. Scheller College of Business Dean Maryam Alavi showcased her thought leadership at the ATDC Retail Tech Summit, a gathering of retail executives and innovators to discuss the future of retail and the technologies impacting the industry. Read more May 10, 2018 John R. McIntyre Releases New Book on CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises Scheller College’s John R. McIntyre has released a new book, CSR and Climate Change Implications for Multinational Enterprises. The book describes, explains, and predicts how multinational firms will rise to the multiple challenges posed by global climate issues and the organizational and behavioral various responses of the international corporate community. Read more May 08, 2018 Declan Nishiyama Named as “Best & Brightest MBAs in the Class of 2018” by Poets & Quants Scheller College is proud to announce that Declan Nishiyama has been selected by Poets & Quants (P&Q) as “The Best & Brightest MBAs in the Class of 2018.” Declan, a 2018 graduate of the Full-time MBA Program, served as Class Vice President of Finance and captain of the MBA intramural soccer teams. He also co-founded the Scheller Student Speaker program and volunteered at Open Hand Atlanta and the local veteran’s hospital. Read more May 08, 2018 Scheller College Undergraduates Tour New York with Alumnus Richard Bergmark To quote the smash hit Hamilton, seven Scheller College undergraduates were in "the room where it happens" this spring as they toured New York’s major financial institutions and took in the musical itself. Thanks to Scheller College of Business philanthropic leader and alumnus Richard Bergmark (IM 1975), the students received an insider’s look at the city’s top financial destinations by meeting investment bankers and visiting powerhouse financial organizations. Read more May 07, 2018 Spring 2018 Commencement: Congratulations, Scheller College graduates Congratulations to our newly-minted alumni on your great achievement of earning a degree from Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business! Commencement is always a time of great celebration, and the graduating students of the Spring 2018 class add to the immense pride in our College and Institute. Read more May 07, 2018 Third-Generation Yellow Jacket, First-Generation Scheller College Graduate Leah Ward When Leah Ward walks across the Commencement stage, she will be her family’s third generation to graduate from Georgia Tech. “My grandfather graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering (1958), and my mom and dad graduated from Tech with degrees in industrial engineering (1986) and mechanical engineering (1985) respectively,” Ward said. Read more May 04, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Josh Saylor Meet Evening MBA student Josh Saylor. He describes himself as “hardworking and ‘on-the-go’ while pursuing a balanced life with family, friends, and travel.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more May 02, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Grace Walton Meet Evening MBA student Grace Walton. Prior to the Evening MBA Program, Grace worked at Caraustar as the Manager of Direct Materials; however, as a result of obtaining her MBA, she has become a Sourcing Manager at Georgia-Pacific within their Innovation unit. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more May 02, 2018 T&M Student Richard Huckaby Celebrates First-Generation Graduation When Richard Huckaby crosses Georgia Tech’s McCamish Pavilion stage on May 5 with his diploma in computer engineering, it will represent a big first: Richard will be the first in his family to graduate from a four-year university — and with an engineering degree, no less. Richard didn’t stop at an engineering major though; he also completed a minor in engineering & business as part of the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program. Read more May 01, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Amir Bouhafs Meet undergraduate student Amir Bouhafs. Throughout his college career, Amir has received many awards and recognition for his work in and out of the classroom, including most recently in Poets & Quants for Undergrads Best and Brightest Business Majors for 2018. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more May 01, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Declan Nishiyama Meet Full-time MBA student Declan Nishiyama. Declan was recently recognized in Poets & Quants 2018 Best and Brightest MBAs. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more May 01, 2018 Georgia-Grown Graduate John Foster Adds White and Gold Pride to His Family A year ago, John Foster’s older brother graduated with a degree in finance from Georgia Tech, making him the first in the family to go to Tech. “My mom’s side of the family is composed exclusively of die-hard UGA fans,” said Foster, who earned his Georgia Tech degree in May 2018. “So, it’s a nice little dose of rebellion to graduate from Georgia’s most prestigious college.” Read more April 30, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Evie Owens Meet undergraduate student Evie Owens. Throughout her college career, Evie has been an active leader in and out of the classroom and was recently named Poets & Quants for Undergrads Best and Brightest Business Majors for 2018. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 30, 2018 First-Generation Graduate Iree Sinkle Reflects on Scheller College Experience Even though he grew up in a household with parents who never attended a four-year university, Iree Skinkle knew he wanted to go to college from the time he was 4 years old. Now, graduating from one of the nation's leading public universities, his mother credits him with having "changed our family line forever." Read more April 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Adam Zenker Meet Full-time MBA student Adam Zenker. In his spare time, Adam plays hockey and is involved in multiple philanthropy projects, including serving as the Student Executive Leader for the MBA program’s Pro Bono Consulting Practicum. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: William Courrèges-Clercq Meet undergraduate student William Courrèges-Clercq. He describes himself as someone who “strives to love others and live life sincerely and authentically.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 27, 2018 Ernest Scheller, Jr. Visits His Namesake College From meeting with Bud Peterson to spending time with students and listening to final presentations, including Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program, TI:GER, and Full-time MBA strategy capstone, Mr. Ernest Scheller, namesake of Scheller College of Business, spent a day on campus this Spring. Read more April 26, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Sam Rubin Meet undergraduate student Sam Rubin. He describes himself as “a passionate, overly outgoing, focused and happy-go-lucky kid soaking in life’s moments.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 26, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Samantha Flowers Meet Evening MBA student Samantha Flowers. Samantha enjoys hiking, going to the movies, trying new restaurants, and reading. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 25, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jason Alcedo Meet Full-time MBA student Jason Alcedo. He describes himself as a “pragmatic idealist” who believes in the corporate responsibility to all stakeholders – not just shareholders. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 25, 2018 Peter Swire Named Andrew Carnegie Fellow Scheller College of Business professor Peter Swire has been selected as a 2018 Andrew Carnegie Fellow, a prestigious program that supports significant research in the humanities and social sciences. Thirty-one scholars and writers were selected for the fellowship, often called the “brainy award,” from nearly 300 nominations. Swire is the only recipient from Georgia. Read more April 24, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Sara Beagle Meet undergraduate student Sara Beagle. While at Scheller College, Sara interned at The Coca-Cola Company, Siemens, and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 24, 2018 How Optimized Remarketing and Refurbishment Can Help Grow Revenue and Improve Circularity How should manufacturers allocate refurbished consumer returns between remarketing and warranty fulfillment to extract maximum value for the manufacturer? How does the optimal allocation of returns to remarketing and warranty fulfillment change over the product life cycle? How do return rates, remarketing potential, refurbishing costs, failure rates, and product pricing affect optimal allocation? Read more April 23, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Nick Fazio Meet undergraduate student Nick Fazio. Nick describes himself as an “affable, business-minded individual who is passionate about building relationships.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 23, 2018 Scheller College Undergraduate Achieves $2.4M in Seed Funding Scheller College of Business' Dean's Scholar and undergraduate business student Sean Henry has something new to celebrate: his company STORD has completed a seed round of $2.4 million. Additionally, Sean was named one of Forbes' 2018 30 Under 30 for Manufacturing and Industry, included in Inc. Magazine's 2017 50 Young Entrepreneurs Rethinking the World's Biggest Problems, and ranked in the top 30 in Inc. Magazine's America's Top Emerging Companies of 2017. Read more April 23, 2018 TI:GER Sweeps TYE Atlanta Competition Second-year TI:GER teams swept the podium claiming first, second and third place in the TiE Young Entrepreneur (TYE) competition finals held in Atlanta on April 21. Winning teams were Atramento, Oculus Prime, and Lunula Health. Read more April 20, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Kathryn Morgan Meet Evening MBA student Kathryn Morgan. She describes herself as a “self-proclaimed nerd that is passionate about people and her community.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 20, 2018 Scheller College Celebrates Honors Day 2018 Scheller College of Business celebrated its tenth annual Honors Day, recognizing the accomplishments of students, faculty, and staff as well as the generosity of Scheller College benefactors. While already being one of the most joyous occasions of the year at the College, the event was made even more special by the attendance of the College’s namesake, Ernest Scheller, Jr. Read more April 19, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Jacqueline Smyth Meet Evening MBA student Jacqueline Smyth. She enjoys traveling, reading, knitting, and learning, and has visited 25 countries—seven of them twice. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 18, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Henry Truelove Meet undergraduate student Henry Truelove. Henry is from Falls Church, VA, and he describes himself as an “avid reader, wishful Washington Redskins fan, and basketball player.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 17, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Chris Bergman Meet Full-time MBA student Chris Bergman. Chris describes himself as an “experienced leader who thrives in dynamic environments” who takes pride in facilitating successful teams. As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 16, 2018 Countdown to Commencement: Rohit Bothra Meet Full-time MBA student Rohit Bothra from Chennai, India. He describes himself as a “life-long learner, leveraging artificial intelligence to make the world a better place.” As part of our Countdown to Commencement series, we spent some time with a few soon-to-be graduates from our undergraduate and MBA programs to learn about their backgrounds, why they chose Scheller College, and what they plan to do with their degrees after Spring 2018 Commencement. Read more April 13, 2018 Scheller College TI:GER Teams Win Prize Money at Rice Business Plan Competition Scheller College TI:GER teams Lunula Health and Oculus Prime recently made a big splash at the world’s richest and largest graduate-student start-up competition. Hosted by colleges and centers at Rice University, the Rice Business Plan Competition gives collegiate entrepreneurs a real-world experience to fine tune their business plans and elevator pitches to generate funding to successfully commercialize their product. Read more April 13, 2018 Scheller College Undergraduates Compete as North America Finalists at P&G CEO Challenge At the intersection of business and technology, Scheller College students study the impacts of technological innovation and digital disruption every day in the classroom. This spring a team of undergraduates put their knowledge to the test with a global competition sponsored by Procter & Gamble. Scheller College undergraduates Bethany Bell, Christine Nguyen, and Hannah Schafer teamed up with economics major Celina Apollon and industrial design major Mary Hirvela to compete in the P&G CEO Challenge. Read more April 11, 2018 2017–2018 Undergraduate Awards Announced It is a great pleasure to announce the Scheller College of Business Undergraduate Award Recipients and Faculty of the Year Award Recipients for the 2017–2018 academic year. Winners were presented with their award at the 2018 Scheller Undergraduate Awards Ceremony on April 9th. Read more April 11, 2018 MBA Student Podcast: Internships at Delta This week’s guests are 2nd year MBA students Mark Jacobson, Cameron Richard-Smith, and Ann Babinets. Tune in to this week’s episode to hear from three Scheller students about their experiences at Tech, the process of landing an internship at Delta, what it’s like to work there, and why you should strongly consider Scheller if you’re thinking about getting an MBA. Read more April 06, 2018 C-Suite Executives Share Their Best Practices on Prioritizing and Embracing Diversity and Inclusion In a rapidly diversifying world, implementing diversity and inclusion practices in the workplace is not only the right thing to—it is a business imperative. To this end, Scheller College of Business recently hosted executives from The Coca Cola Company, The Home Depot, and Southern Company, so they could share how their organizations both embody and embrace the power of differences. Read more April 06, 2018 Panel of Distinguished Female Leaders Reflect on Careers in Technology and Analytics More than 70 people gathered at the Scheller College of Business on April 4th for the Women in Technology and Analytics Panel. The all-star panel was hosted by the Georgia Tech Business Analytics Club and the Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business. The event attracted groups from an array of Atlanta Universities, as well as representatives from Chick-fil-A, Southern Company and NCR. Read more April 05, 2018 Congratulations to the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business 2018 Business Analytics Master Modeler Competition Winners Earning first place and the $10,000 grand prize was Team Blue Ocean 12 with team captain German Schnaidt-Grez (PhD Cand. IE 2019), and Nermit Chetwani (MS Analytics 2018). Read more April 05, 2018 Scheller College Student Explores the Impact of Data on Corporate Strategy Scheller College undergraduate student Aiman Shahab is navigating her first semester as a co-op supporting global sourcing and supply chain optimization for The Coca-Cola Company. Read more April 03, 2018 Cobb & Toktay: 2018 Innovation in Co-curricular Education Award For their groundbreaking accomplishments with the Internship and Co-op Carbon Reduction Challenge, Kim Cobb and Beril Toktay have been selected as the recipients of the 2018 Innovation in Co-curricular Education Award, administered by the Center for Teaching and Learning. Read more April 03, 2018 Two Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Students Selected Poets & Quants Best and Brightest Undergraduate Business Majors for 2018 Undergraduate students, Amir Bouhafs and Evie Owens, were named “Best & Brightest Business Majors” by Poets & Quants for Undergrads. Read more March 30, 2018 Scheller College Appoints Three Chairs and Professors Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech has appointed three endowed chairs and professorships in its teaching faculty for the 2018–2019 academic year: Saby Mitra, Peter Thompson, and D.J. Wu. Reflecting on the recognition of her esteemed colleagues, Dean Maryam Alavi notes, “I am delighted to announce our new and returning chair and professorship appointments to Saby, Peter, and D.J. Their exemplary impact on research, academics, and service to Scheller College is paramount." Read more March 29, 2018 Scheller College’s Sustainable Business Practicums Bridge MBA and Undergraduate Programs As part of the Scheller College of Business’ Fall 2017 MBA Sustainable Business Practicum, the US Green Building Council (USGBC) worked with a student team on building out the business case for Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification in the Southeast United States. Read more March 29, 2018 Working Diversity, Diversifying Work: The Work Universities Must Anticipate Dr. Earl Lewis recently addressed students, faculty, staff, alumni and business leaders at the Thomas R. Williams Distinguished Lecture, a special edition of the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more March 23, 2018 Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR): What are the Design Implications on Durable Products? How do different policy requirements influence strategic design choices such as recyclability and durability? How can policymakers set requirements to achieve desired results, while avoiding unintended consequences? Read more March 20, 2018 Scheller College Named ‘Top 6 MBA Programs to Launch Your Career in the High-Tech Industry’ Touch MBA named Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business one of its top full-time MBA programs in the country to launch a high-tech career. Among an impressive list of top U.S. business schools, this recognition further validates Scheller College’s unique position at the intersection of business and technology. Read more March 12, 2018 Digital Disruption Part II Explores Big Implications of Big Data The Digital Disruption Series, co-presented by Scheller College and Accenture, discusses trends in today’s ever-changing digital arena. Part II focused on big implications of big data for business, with a discussion on how data science and other technologies can solve complex problems, harness applied intelligence, create new opportunities, and innovate the way we conduct business. Read more February 28, 2018 Scheller College of Business engages in New United Nations Regional Centre of Expertise (RCE) The United Nations University Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability (UNU-IAS) announced a new regional sustainability network, RCE Greater Atlanta, one of six Regional Centres of Expertise on Education for Sustainable Development. Read more February 28, 2018 Scheller College’s Spring 2018 Impact Series Kicks Off As Mother-Daughter Duo Discuss Mixtroz Entrepreneurship, hard work, scrappiness, and “treating anything like it’s everything,” Mixtroz co-founders Ashlee Ansen and Kerry Schrader tell us about challenges business owners face and how they overcame them Read more February 26, 2018 MBA Student Podcast: Veterans in MBA In the latest episode of “Why Scheller?”, a podcast from Scheller’s Full-time MBA program, hear directly from some of the veterans at Scheller why they think others who have served in the military may be the perfect candidates to apply for an MBA from Georgia Tech. Read more February 24, 2018 Operational Strategies to Match Surplus with Humanitarian Needs How can medical surplus recovery organizations (MSROs) overcome a challenging supply chain—limited supply, high and varied demand, and limited information about recipient needs—to deliver the right medical product to the right recipient healthcare facility? Can MSROs simultaneously provide information about their inventory levels and obtain accurate need information from recipients? Read more February 16, 2018 Global Social Venture Competition Regional Finals Take Center Stage at Scheller What do improved police training, reduced infant mortality in developing nations, more-accurate Pap test screening for women in low-income countries and financial services for refugees have in common? Each is the focus of an early-stage company started by student-led teams at four U.S. business schools. These teams gathered March 9 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business to present business plans at the Eastern Regional Finals of the annual Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC). Read more February 16, 2018 Scheller College Announces New Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs Effective July 1, 2018, Craig Womack will be Scheller College of Business Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs. Craig succeeds Jonathan Clarke, who served as Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs for two consecutive terms. The Scheller College undergraduate program thrived under Jonathan’s leadership, recently ranking #11 in the U.S. and #1 in Georgia by Poets & Quants Undergraduate. Read more February 09, 2018 Dean Alavi Honored in 2018 ‘Women Out Front’ Ceremony Dean Maryam Alavi of Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech was recognized for her dedication and achievement in her industry at the 2018 Women Out Front ceremony. This honor, bestowed by the Georgia Tech women’s basketball program, celebrates women leaders who have made a significant impact in their fields and who serve as role models for young women who aspire to leadership. Read more February 09, 2018 MBA Student Podcast: Katie Lloyd, Executive Director of MBA Admissions In the latest episode of “Why Scheller?” students chat with Katie Lloyd, executive director of MBA Admissions at Scheller, and an extremely approachable person who would be happy to answer your more specific questions about applying. Read more February 09, 2018 Scheller College Hosts Inaugural Digital Disruption Event Over 300 people attended the inaugural panel of the Digital Disruptions Speaker Series at the Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech. The Speaker Series is a collaboration between Accenture and the Scheller College of Business. Read more January 29, 2018 GEORGIA TECH SCHELLER COLLEGE OF BUSINESS RANKED #1 IN THE WORLD FOR MBA CAREER SERVICES The Financial Times released its 2018 global rankings of top full-time MBA programs. Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA Career Services is ranked #1 in the world. Read more January 29, 2018 Inc. Magazine Includes Scheller College Dean Alavi in Article Regarding Amazon HQ2 Dean Alavi cites how Atlanta’s momentum and ecosystem make it an option for Amazon’s HQ2. Read more January 26, 2018 Scheller Alumna Amy Rich Shares Advice on Career Advancement within an Organization Scheller Alumna Amy Rich Shares Advice on Career Advancement within an Organization Read more January 25, 2018 Are you fiscally prepared like a Boy Scout? Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business works with Atlanta Boy Scouts on personal finance badge Take the fiscal responsibility challenge below to see how you match up to the Scouts Wall Street trading simulation increases financial literacy, investing, and trading knowledge. Read more January 25, 2018 Full Time Scheller College MBA Students Provide Hurricane Katrina Aid Marking a decade this year, Scheller College of Business student volunteers visit New Orleans to rebuild homes. Read more January 24, 2018 How Did Markets React to the Rana Plaza Disaster? How did stock markets react to the Rana Plaza disaster, which killed more than 1,200 garment workers and injured another 2,400 in Bangladesh in 2013? Read more January 23, 2018 MBA Student Podcast: Internships at Deloitte In the latest episode of “Why Scheller?”, a podcast from Scheller’s Full-time MBA program, second year students Sachin Khare, Julius G-K, and Chris Bergman describe how they each landed summer internships with one of the Big 4 Consulting Firm. Read more January 18, 2018 Dean Maryam Alavi featured on Business Radio X Women in Technology Panel Joined by fellow Woman of the Year award winners, Dean Maryam Alavi discusses the future of business and technology, globalization, and a lifetime of learning. Read more January 18, 2018 Scheller College Named Top 10 Business School to Watch in 2018 Poets & Quants for Undergrads has named Scheller College of Business at Georgia Tech among the top ten undergraduate business schools to watch in 2018. This recognition follows the publication’s latest ranking results in 2017, which in its first year of participating, placed Scheller College as #1 in undergraduate business programs in the state of Georgia, #5 for public universities, and #11 in the U.S. Read more January 18, 2018 Scheller College's Brian Swider Discusses First Impressions on the Today Show The Today Show featured Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business assistant professor of Organizational Behavior, Brian Swider, Ph.D., in its three-part series on first impressions. Brian’s Dr. Swider’s research, cited in the British Psychological Society Research Digest, focused on the importance of the first few minutes of job interviews. Read more January 02, 2018 Scheller College of Business’ Marc Dash and Bill Todd Honored at 2018 White & Gold Honors Gala Acclaimed professors of Scheller College receive Alumni Association’s highest honor Read more December 22, 2017 Scheller College Alumni Making an Indelible Mark in Business and Community Double Jackets Ashish Arya, Joyelle Harris, and Amy Phuong named 2017 Atlanta Business Chronicle ‘40 under 40’ Read more December 22, 2017 Scheller College MBA Students Head West Leaving Atlanta’s Tech Square to Visit High-tech Companies in Silicon Valley Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business MBA students have just returned from their annual west coast technology trek where they had the opportunity to meet with business leaders in the high-tech industry. Read more December 22, 2017 EMBA Buzzing about International Trips and Essential Global Leadership Lessons The EMBA Class of 2017 headed to China for their first international trip in the spring of 2017. In September 2017, the students headed to Panama to visit the Panama Canal and Georgia Tech’s Logistics Innovation and Research Center. They also met with alumni and business leaders to get an inside look on business operations. Read more December 22, 2017 Scheller College Alumni Make Their Play Contributing to State-of-the-Art Mercedes Benz Stadium If you haven’t seen it yet, you will soon enough, the new Mercedes Benz Stadium in downtown Atlanta, home of the Atlanta Falcons and Atlanta United, will host this year’s College Championship game and the 2019 SuperBowl. Read more December 21, 2017 Two Scheller Students Receive NBMBAA Scholarship Awards Scheller College students are recognized for outstanding achievements by the National Black MBA Association. Read more December 13, 2017 From Meeting the President to a Private Tour of the Locks, Scheller College of Business’ Executive MBAs are Buzzing about Panama In September 2017, the EMBA Global Business Class of 2017 traveled to Panama to visit Georgia Tech research centers, tour the newly-expanded Panama Canal with the Minister of Canal Affairs and Director General of Panama Metro, Roberto Roy BSIE 1985, and meet President of Panama, Juan Carlos Varela BSIE 1985. Read more December 13, 2017 Scheller MBA Student Presidents Receive Most Valuable Students Award This November two Scheller College students were awarded the Most Valuable Students award at the 2nd annual Rice University MBA Student Government Leadership Summit in Houston, Texas. Read more December 05, 2017 Scheller College of Business Undergraduate Business Program named #11 in U.S. and #1 in Georgia Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business was named the #11 Best Undergraduate Business Program in the country and #1 in the state of Georgia. Read more December 04, 2017 Scheller College Among World’s Best Business Schools in Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is 4th in the U.S. and 10th globally in the 2017 Better World MBA rankings. Read more December 01, 2017 Scheller Undergraduate Student Named Forbes’ 30 Under 30 Scheller College of Business’ Dean’s Scholar and third-year undergraduate business student Sean Henry was recently named one of Forbes’ 2018 30 Under 30 for Manufacturing and Industry. Henry founded and serves as chief executive officer of STORD, an on-demand warehousing and distribution company that leverages capacity in independent facilities nationwide – pairing excess capacity in third-party facilities with businesses that need affordable and efficient storage solutions. Read more November 29, 2017 More Effective Delivery Model for Humanitarian Aid Researchers from Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business and Georgia Institute of Technology H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering have identified how medical surplus items can be distributed more effectively by humanitarian organizations. Read more November 17, 2017 DEAN MARYAM ALAVI NAMED WOMAN OF THE YEAR IN 2017 WOMEN IN TECHNOLOGY AWARDS Dean Maryam Alavi named Woman of the Year for mid-size educational institutions by Women in Technology Read more November 16, 2017 Scheller College of Business Receives Acclaim at INFORMS 2017 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is pleased to announce several awards recently presented to students, faculty, and alumni at INFORMS 2017 in Houston, Texas. Read more November 08, 2017 MBA Student Podcast: Internships at Amazon In the latest episode of “Why Scheller?”, a podcast from Scheller’s Full-time MBA program, second year students Declan Nishiyama, Prateek Mittal, and Newton Chan describe how they each landed summer internships with one of the most exciting companies in the modern business world. Read more October 16, 2017 Georgia Tech’s Executive MBA program ranked #15 among U.S. programs. Financial Times released its 2017 global rankings of the Top 100 Executive MBA programs and Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program has been ranked the #1 EMBA program in Georgia and the #15 Executive MBA program in the U.S. Read more October 10, 2017 Scheller MBA Student Podcast: Summer interns discuss their experience and why they chose Scheller. The first episode of the podcast explores the three students' unique career backgrounds, their expectations of and experiences at Scheller, and their plans for the future once they have degrees in hand. Read more September 26, 2017 Dean Maryam Alavi has been named a finalist in this year’s Women In Technology’s (WIT) Women of the Year Awards Dean Maryam Alavi has been named a finalist in this year’s Women In Technology’s (WIT) Women of the Year Awards Read more September 20, 2017 2017 Supply Chain Executive Summit. Technology-Enabled Supply Chain Strategies: What’s next. What’s now. What to do. More than 45 leading supply chain professionals from around the Southeast gathered at Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business to share their experiences in this ever-evolving industry and learn from top experts about the latest trends and innovations impacting supply chain management. Read more September 20, 2017 Scheller College of Business Names Seven Chairs and Professors Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business recently named seven endowed chairs and professorships in its teaching faculty. Read more September 19, 2017 Jones MBA Career Center Welcomes New Staff The Scheller College MBA Career Services team recently welcomed three new Career Coaches/Corporate Relations Managers, Patrick Manigault, Lauren Porter and Kristen Pratt. Read more September 19, 2017 Scheller Alumnus Ricky Schwartz Shares Advice for Early Career Success MBA Class of 2013 alumnus Ricky Schwartz, Head of IT Innovation at Ericsson, has several pieces of advice for alumni focused on innovation. Read more August 25, 2017 Scheller Interns at SunTrust Win Carbon Reduction Challenge A team composed of two Scheller College of Business and four Industrial and Systems Engineering students who interned this summer at SunTrust won the top prize in the inaugural Internship and Co-op Carbon Reduction Challenge. Read more August 18, 2017 Scheller Alumnus Robin Bienfait Hopes to Moderate Georgia's 'Brain Drain' This Scheller College alumna, who graduated in 2001 with an Executive Master's of Technology, has opened a 43,000-square-foot Global Innovation Center in Peachtree Corners – Atlanta Tech Park. Read more August 18, 2017 Scheller College's Emphasis on Entrepreneurship and Technology is a Good Fit for Marc Frankel As a high-school student, when Marc Frankel started driving, he made a deal with his mother to always check-in. But he would forget to check-in some mornings, and his vigilant mother would text him to make sure he was safe and sound. He began thinking of better ways that would be a win-win for everyone. What happened next is amazing. Read more July 07, 2017 Scheller College Professor L. Beril Toktay Named Fellow by MSOM The Manufacturing and Service Operations Management Society (MSOM) has elected Professor L. Beril Toktay as a Distinguished Fellow of the organization. "Election as an MSOM Fellow should be considered a rare distinction," according to the society's web site. Read more June 09, 2017 Scheller College Focuses on Diversity as Host for Management Leadership for Tomorrow Seminar Scheller College of Business is working to create the next business leaders. Three hundred high-achieving, pre-qualified prospective MBA students will come to Scheller College as part of a pre-MBA prep seminar designed for African Americans, Latinos and Native Americans. The seminar will take place June 16-18, 2017. Read more June 06, 2017 Georgia Tech Professors Take the Carbon Reduction Challenge from Class to Co-op Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is looking to creating the next leaders to take on carbon reduction, thanks to an innovative new co-curricular initiative launched in partnership with the College of Sciences. Starting in May 2017, Professors Kim Cobb (College of Sciences) and Beril Toktay have joined forces to run the Internship and Co-op Carbon Challenge. Read more May 23, 2017 New TI:GER Teams Wrapping Up a Successful First Year The new incoming class of TI:GER students did outstanding work this year on their commercialization plans with several teams already achieving major recognition. Read more May 18, 2017 Scheller College Remembers Professor Bryan Church Professor Bryan Kevin Church, a teacher, scholar, husband, father, brother, and friend, known by his colleagues as a brilliant academic who did not take himself too seriously, died on Saturday, April 29. Read more May 15, 2017 Scheller Graduate Selected as one of the World’s "Best and Brightest" MBAs Kevin Boldt has been selected for Poets & Quants’ list of the 100 “best and brightest” MBAs chosen from 59 business schools across the globe. Read more May 05, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Farzeen Tejani Meet Farzeen Tejani. Farzeen is from Atlanta and earned her bachelor’s degree in architecture with an architecture history certificate from Georgia Tech. Read more May 05, 2017 From Yellow Jackets to Worker Bees - D'Andre Waller Fifth-year mechanical engineer D’Andre Waller took advantage of the interdisciplinary opportunities at Georgia Tech through the Denning T&M Program. Read more May 04, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Gaurav Singh Meet Gaurav Singh. Gaurav is from Faridabad, Haryana (India) and earned his bachelor’s in electrical engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology in India. Read more May 04, 2017 From Yellow Jackets to Worker Bees - Sean Flynn Fourth-year business administration major Sean Flynn will move to New York City after graduation to work at JP Morgan. Read more May 03, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Elizabeth Schultz Meet Elizabeth Schultz. Elizabeth is from Marietta, Georgia and earned her bachelor’s degree in industrial design from Georgia Tech. Read more May 02, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Ajaay Ravi Meet Ajaay Ravi. Ajaay is from Chennai, Tamil Nadu (India) and earned a bachelor’s degree in electronics and telecommunication engineering from SRM University in Chennai and his master’s in computer engineering from the University of Cincinnati. Read more April 30, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Amanda Palaski Meet Amanda Palaski. Amanda is from Armada, Michigan and earned her bachelor’s degree in biology from Georgia Tech. Read more April 29, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Phil Mauro Meet Phil Mauro. Phil is from Seaford, New York and earned his bachelor’s degree in history and classics from the University of Notre Dame. Read more April 28, 2017 Countdown to Commencement - Hannah Lee Meet Hannah Lee. Hannah is from Toronto, Ontario and earned her bachelor’s in economics from Cornell University. Read more April 28, 2017 Gina Barrios Applies Problem-Solving Skills at Invesco Gina Barrios, MBA 2003, enrolled in Georgia Institute of Technology's business school because she wanted to point her career in an interesting new direction. Read more April 27, 2017 Countdown to Commencement – Jermaine Fanfair Jermaine is from Atlanta and earned his bachelor’s degree from Wesleyan University and juris doctor degree from Howard University School of Law. Read more April 26, 2017 Countdown to Commencement - Kojo DeGraft-Hanson Kojo is from Buford, Georgia and earned a bachelor’s degree from Cornell University in Operations Research & Information Engineering with a minor in Africana Studies. Read more April 25, 2017 Countdown to Commencement - Kevin Boldt Kevin is from Carrolton, Georgia and earned a bachelor’s degree from Stanford University in International Relations. Read more April 24, 2017 Countdown to Commencement - Brooke Adams Brooke is from Alpharetta, Georgia and earned a bachelor’s degree from Georgia Tech in Industrial and Systems Engineering. Read more April 21, 2017 Business in Service or Social and Enviromental Impact Scheller MBA students mentored this year’s Ideas to Serve (I2S) participants helping them articulate their social impact assessment, sharpen their pitches, and advise them on financial projections and go-to-market strategies. Read more April 21, 2017 Perseverance Brings Results for Rob Coyle Rob Coyle, MBA 1997, doesn't take no for an answer. When he received the letter rejecting his application to Georgia Institute of Technology's MBA program — then called the Master of Science in Management degree — he made an appointment to see now retired program director Ann Scott. Read more April 21, 2017 Scheller College Hosted Panel on Diversity and Inclusion Scheller College of Business hosted executives from McKinsey & Company, The Coca-Cola Company, and Atlanta Hawks & Philips Arena to discuss how future leaders can create impact, unlock innovation, and drive market growth through diversity and inclusion. Read more April 14, 2017 When It Comes to Size, Sound Matters in Ads Lower pitches in voices or music in advertisements lead consumers to infer a larger product size, according to a new study by researchers at Georgia Institute of Technology and Vanderbilt University. Read more April 12, 2017 Diana Orrego-Moore's MBA Helps Her Tap Global Markets Orrego-Moore works as global director for craft/specialties logistics at Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev), a conglomerate of brewers that together produce more than 200 brands and maintains its corporate offices in Belgium. Read more March 17, 2017 Exceptional Scheller College Faculty, Students and Staff Receive Excellence Awards In its ninth year, the Scheller College Honors Day Awards program was held on March 16, 2017. The ceremony recognizes outstanding Scheller College of Business faculty, students and staff who exemplify excellence. Read more March 10, 2017 Alumni Profile: From Classmates to Startup When Christian Hyatt, MBA 2016, and Christian White, MBA 2016, found themselves seated next to each other in one of their first-year classes at Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business, they soon discovered they had a lot more in common than their first names. Read more February 10, 2017 Georgia Tech Evening MBA Program Qualifies for Employee Tuition Assistance Program Did you know there is a benefit available to all Tech employees that allows them to earn their MBA while employed? Though many are not aware of the Tuition Assistance Program, this special education benefit provides tuition waivers for full-time Georgia Tech employees who have successfully completed at least six months of employment in a full-time, benefits eligible position. Read more February 02, 2017 Statement On Recent Executive Order Regarding Travel A message from Dean Maryam Alavi about the U.S. Administration executive order limiting nationals from seven countries from entering the country for 90 days: For those in our community who are affected, know that we understand your concerns and you have our support. Read more January 20, 2017 Dean Maryam Alavi Speaks At Technology Summit Dean Maryam Alavi, expert in IT innovations and strategic applications, speaks at a series designed to educate, empower, and promote minority women in technology. The event, presented by The BOSS Network, will take place at W Atlanta Midtown, in Atlanta, GA on January 20. Read more January 12, 2017 Scheller College Scores Top-Four Ranking In Job Placement, Student Satisfaction Job placement and student satisfaction at Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business are both ranked No. 4 in the nation — a one-two punch unmatched by far at any other Top 50 MBA school in the U.S., according to Bloomberg Businessweek. Read more January 11, 2017 Dean Maryam Alavi Speaks at TEDxCPW Watch Scheller College Dean Maryam Alavi's talk at the fourth annual TEDxCentennialParkWomen (TEDxCPW) program held in October. The event featured a curated selection of presentations revolving around the theme, "It's About Time." Read more December 20, 2016 2016 Fall Commencement Roundup Georgia Tech featured one of our undergraduates, Rehman Pirani, in a story that details how his path led him to the Scheller College of Business. Read his story and see other photos from commencement. Read more December 16, 2016 Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta and Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business Collaborate on Strengthening Pediatric Primary Care For the first time, the ongoing partnership between Georgia Tech and Children's Healthcare of Atlanta is expanding beyond innovative pediatric biomedical research, and is helping to find ways to improve business practices and management. Read more December 14, 2016 Faculty Profile: 'Market-Orientation' Research Leads to Honorary Doctorate for Ajay Kohli What does it mean for a business to be market oriented? The answer to this and many other related questions form the basis of Ajay Kohli's groundbreaking research, which was recognized this past fall when he received an honorary doctorate in economics from the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland. Read more December 14, 2016 Faculty Profile: Professor Frank Rothaermel Helps Others Find Their Winning Strategy Professor Frank Rothaermel has made a career out of helping firms and students alike find their competitive advantage. Read more December 02, 2016 Tech Alumnus and Accenture Digital Executive Talks Creating the Next Digital Transformation Corporate connections are an integral part of the Scheller College of Business. The College strives to give its partners access to world's next leaders, while connecting Scheller students with dynamic executives from successful organizations. Read more November 18, 2016 Rhett Grametbauer Takes the Ultimate Football Road Trip Scheller College graduate, Rhett Grametbauer, MBA 2004, took the football adventure of a lifetime visiting every NFL stadium in America during the 2014-2015 football season, all in his 1967 Volkswagen bus named “Hail Mary”. Read more November 12, 2016 Scheller College Hosts MBA Open House November 12-13 No matter what your interests or career stage, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has the right MBA program for you. Gain an insider’s perspective on our Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs. Read more November 02, 2016 Research says Chitchat is Key to a Great Job Interview A new study suggests that the impression you make during the first few minutes of seemingly idle chitchat — what researchers call "rapport building" — has a big influence on your interviewer's overall perception of you. Read more November 01, 2016 Scheller College Offers Undergraduate Students a Unique Business Education Georgia Tech’s Scheller College’s Undergraduate Program is consistently ranked among the nation’s best (13th business program among public universities by Bloomberg Businessweek and 32nd among Top 50 undergraduate programs by U.S. News and World Report), but it is great when our friends around campus recognize all the amazing things going on at the College. Read more October 26, 2016 Admiral Mike Rogers Speaks to the Next Generation of Cybersecurity Professionals at Georgia Tech On Monday, Oct. 24, Admiral Mike Rogers, director of the National Security Agency (NSA) and commander of the United States Cyber Command, spoke to a class of Georgia Tech students about the NSA's role in cybersecurity, privacy, and national security. Read more October 18, 2016 The EXCEL Program is Opening Doors at Georgia Tech In 2015 the Expanding Career, Education, and Leadership Opportunities Program (EXCEL) welcomed its first class of eight students to Georgia Tech. Read more October 07, 2016 Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Creates the Next Innovative Leader Today’s businesses are looking for the next generation of leaders to spearhead industry growth, and they are looking to Georgia Tech to help create these future leaders. Read more October 03, 2016 Georgia Tech’s Scheller College and the Aspen Institute Hosted CEO Panel on Leading Innovation For the first time at the Scheller College of Business, the global executives of The Aspen Institute, The Coca-Cola Company, The Home Depot, and BuzzFeed met on campus for a conversation that examined the most disruptive ideas and game-changing trends in American business. Read more September 23, 2016 TAG Radio Highlights Scheller College’s Work to Develop Next Generation Business Leadership Brian Jennings, associate dean of MBA programs and executive education at Scheller College of Business, was featured on Technology Association of Georgia (TAG) radio network’s Tech Talk program on Thursday, Sept. 15. Read more September 16, 2016 Lyndy Axon is Earning her MBA and MSAE through the MBA Dual Degree Program Meet Lyndy Axon, a full-time student pursuing both an MBA and master’s degree in Aerospace Engineering through Georgia Tech’s MBA Dual Degree program. Read more September 15, 2016 Georgia Tech to Host Microsoft Data Science Student Challenge Hackathon The Business Analytics Center at Scheller College of Business will host the Georgia Tech Data Science Student Challenge by Microsoft in collaboration with Master of Science Analytics, Stewart School of Industrial Systems Engineering, School of Interactive Computing, and School of Computational Science and Engineering. Read more September 15, 2016 Scheller College Ph.D. Student is Helping Promote Sustainability Efforts for Corporations and Consumers Dionne Nickerson, a Ph.D. marketing candidate in the Scheller College of Business, researches the way companies and consumers can promote positive social change. Read more September 09, 2016 Scheller College Graduate to Compete in Miss America Pageant Patricia Ford, BSBA 2015, is taking lessons learned, and a little technology, from Georgia Tech to the Miss America pageant on Sunday, Sept. 11. Read more August 30, 2016 New Networking Opportunities for Scheller College MBA Alumni Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has joined the Atlanta Business School Alliance (ABSA). Read more August 30, 2016 Sarah Hsi Works to Enhance MARTA from the First to Last Mile As the assistant general manager of information technology and chief information officer for the ninth largest rapid transit system in the U.S., you could say that all of Sarah Hsi’s, MBA - GB 2015, initiatives are mission-critical. Read more August 30, 2016 Scheller MBA Students Visit Innovation Centers in Tech Square Georgia Tech Scheller College MBA students got a first-hand view of innovative technologies in their own backyard on Friday, Aug. 19. New MBA students concluded a successful two-week orientation with the new addition of a tour of nine innovation centers located in Technology Square. Read more August 17, 2016 Scheller College Uses Virtual Reality to Reach MBA Prospects Across the U.S. Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business is recruiting prospective students with more than just a brochure this year – they are using technology to transport MBA seekers to their Atlanta campus. Read more August 08, 2016 Georgia Tech Alumnus Robert Gemmell Named Executive Director of the TI:GER Program Robert Gemmell, BSEE 1979, MSEE 1980, returns to Georgia Tech as the new executive director of the Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER) program. Read more August 01, 2016 Scheller College Welcomes NWBC to Discuss Entrepreneurship in Atlanta for Women Dean Maryam Alavi and the Georgia Tech Scheller College will welcome Chair Carla Harris and the National Women’s Business Council (NWBC) to discuss a preview of their newest research project focusing on black women-owned businesses at their next meeting on Tuesday, Aug. 2. Read more July 29, 2016 Georgia Tech’s Scheller College Joins MLT to Create the Next Generation of Business Leaders The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business was recently invited to partner with Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT), a distinguished nonprofit organization dedicated to empower African Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans with the skills, coaching, and connections they need to lead organizations and communities worldwide. Read more July 19, 2016 Michael Oxman Named Managing Director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Michael Oxman joins the Scheller College of Business as the new managing director of the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business. Read more July 15, 2016 Scheller College Joins Forté to Support Women in Business The Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has joined the Forté, a consortium of leading companies, top business schools, and the Graduate Management Admission Council that has become a powerful change agent in promoting educational and leadership opportunities for women in business. Read more June 15, 2016 Scheller College to Host Women in Business: North America Summit On June 16-17, the Scheller College of Business will welcome Louise Blais, Consul General, Consulate General of Canada in Atlanta, representatives from Business Women in International Trade (BWIT), U.S. Small Business Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, and ProMexico, along with distinguished members of the leadership business community, for the Women in Business: North America Summit. Read more May 19, 2016 Executive Education Custom Programs: Supply Chain Management Learn how Scheller’s custom supply chain management programs help companies overcome challenges in a way that isn’t being done anywhere else. Read more May 18, 2016 Ashley Vanderpoel Chronicles the Economic Empowerment of Women in Developing Nations Elizabeth lives in one of the poorest sections of Naivasha, Kenya. The mother of three operates a thriving business operating a water kiosk and selling vegetables and charcoal to her neighbors. She is a participant in The Coca-Cola Company's 5by20 program, which aims to empower five million female entrepreneurs by the year 2020. Read more May 18, 2016 Scheller College of Business Graduates Named among Best and Brightest MBAs Trevor Clark, Maggie Lovatt, and Cory O’Brien have been selected for Poets & Quants’ list of the 100 “best and brightest” MBAs from around the world. This global honor recognizes decorated MBAs from the Class of 2016 who reflect the best of their schools in terms of academic prowess, extracurricular involvement, personal excellence, and innate potential. Read more May 18, 2016 Scheller's MBA Program Helped Antoine Wade Meet Each of his Professional Goals Scheller alumnus Antoine Wade, MOT 2015, looks back on his time as an MBA student with satisfaction in what he accomplished and gratitude for the support of his "second family" at Georgia Tech during a difficult time. Read more May 13, 2016 Faculty Profile: Professor Deborah Turner finds ‘Work Worth Doing’ in Teaching For accounting Professor Deborah Turner, it was always teaching. Turner held her first class in the basement of her parents’ home in Atlanta. Equipped with a chalkboard and lesson plans, she would teach her neighborhood playmates day after day. Read more May 12, 2016 Scheller College Graduate Earns Fulbright Anne Lashinsky, BSBA 2016, who graduated from the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business with a concentration in operations and supply chain management and a minor in German this spring, will serve as an English teaching assistant in Rostock, Germany, thanks to a Fulbright Teaching Assistantship. Read more May 10, 2016 Significant Portion of Postdoc Researchers Eye Non-Academic Careers, Study Shows For doctoral students studying science, technology, engineering and mathematics, landing a job as a research-oriented college or university faculty member typically requires having spent time as a postdoctoral researcher. Read more May 01, 2016 Undergraduate Office Updated Thanks to SunTrust Trusteed Foundations When undergraduate students returned back to campus this month, things were a little different in the Odie P. Galt Undergraduate Office Suite. In the spring, special guests from SunTrust, Georgia Tech colleagues, and students gathered to celebrate the Undergraduate Program’s completed office renovations. Read more April 21, 2016 Georgia Tech Team O-Mazing wins Krannert-Walmart Data Dive Georgia Institute of Technology students took first place at the Krannert-Walmart Data Dive held at the Purdue University campus in West Lafayette, Indiana on April 2-3. Read more April 14, 2016 Obama Names Antón to Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity President Barack Obama has selected Georgia Tech School of Interactive Computing Chair and Professor Ana (Annie) Antón to serve as one of 12 members of the Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity. Read more April 12, 2016 Ideas to Serve Competition Honors Business Concepts Aiming to Better the World Bac-Off, a long lasting antibacterial solution for textiles that targets reducing hospital acquired infections, and Memora Health, a personalized healthcare solution, were the top teams in the 2016 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 06, 2016 Students Tackle Global Social Issues at I2S Competition The Georgia Tech community is invited to the Ideas to Serve (I2S) Finals Poster Showcase (also open to the general public) on Friday, April 8 from 6 - 8 p.m. in the Thornton Atrium of the Scheller College of Business located at 800 West Peachtree Street. Read more March 28, 2016 In the Classroom with Michael Smith Michael Smith uses his Georgia Tech education and experience to reach students in the classroom. Read more March 25, 2016 Business Analytics Center at Scheller College Hosted Business Analytics Forum 2016 On March 25, the President and CEO of AT&T Mobility and Consumer Operations, Glenn Lurie, led an intriguing discussion at the Business Analytics Forum 2016 Read more March 09, 2016 Scheller College Partners with ChooseATL to “Takeover” Austin During SXSW All roads may lead to Austin during the iconic South by Southwest (SXSW) 2016, but somewhere in the middle of the organized cacophony, conference-goers will see what it’s like to be right in the middle of Midtown Atlanta’s Tech Square. Read more March 09, 2016 Technology to Help Remove Heat from Electronics Wins 2016 Startup Competition A team that can better remove heat from your electronic devices won Georgia Tech’s 2016 Startup Competition ($10,000 prize). Read more February 22, 2016 Coca-Cola wins big in supply chain industry awards program with the support of the Scheller College’s Executive Education Custom Programs In what is widely known as the “supply chain industry’s version of the Oscars,” The Coca-Cola Company was honored as the recipient of the second annual Supply Chain Capability Breakthrough of the Year Award by SCM World, the cross-industry learning community powered by the world’s most influential supply chain practitioners. Read more February 19, 2016 Hard Work Put Bobby Henebry in the Right Place at the Right Time The secret of success in life, to quote Benjamin Disraeli, is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes. For Bobby Henebry, ME 2003, MBA 2006, opportunity came in the form of a guest lecturer at one of his MBA classes — and he was ready. Read more February 19, 2016 Scheller College helps Create a Bright Future for Georgia’s FinTech Industry The Technology Association of Georgia (TAG) FinTech’s recently issued report State of Georgia’s FinTech Ecosystem 2016 published in February 2016 documents features Sudheer Chava's insights on the scope of Georgia’s FinTech ecosystem, its culture of innovation, key strengths, and opportunities to extend its global leadership position. Read more February 04, 2016 Renowned Analytics Chief Bill Franks Shares What It Takes to Develop Data Focused Leadership The rise of analytics is a game-changer in any industry, but when business leaders fail to focus on data usage, their organization will suffer. Read more January 19, 2016 Scheller College helps Clorox Ensure its Supply Chain Leadership Pipeline The Clorox Company was selected as one of two recipients of the Supply Chainnovator Award from Gartner, Inc., the world’s leading information technology research and advisory company. Read more January 15, 2016 Georgia Tech Launches New MBA/M.S. and MBA/Ph.D. Dual Degree with College of Engineering and College of Computing Georgia Tech is now offering a dual degree option allowing students to combine an MBA with an M.S. or Ph.D. degree in programs within the College of Engineering and College of Computing. Read more January 04, 2016 For Ashley Vanderpoel, MBA is Key to Global Positive Impact Ashley Vanderpoel's initial encounter with the MBA curriculum at Scheller College of Business was a marked contrast to her undergraduate studies in communications and Spanish. Read more December 16, 2015 Dr. Jeffrey Hales Appointed to Advisory Council for FASB The Board of Trustees of the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF) has appointed Dr. Jeffrey Hales to the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Council (FASAC). Read more December 16, 2015 Money Ranks Georgia Tech among “10 Great Colleges for Business Majors” Money magazine recently ranked Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business sixth in the nation as a “high-value” college where business graduates tend to out-earn their counterparts from other schools. Read more December 16, 2015 Scheller College of Business Students Named among Best and Brightest Undergraduate Business Majors Elana Burton and Nicholas Cardamone have been selected for Poets & Quants’ list of the 50 “best and brightest” undergraduate business students across the country. This national honor recognizes decorated business majors from the Class of 2016 who reflect the best of their schools in terms of academic performance, extracurricular leadership, personal character and innate potential. Read more December 11, 2015 A Family Tradition For some who come to Tech as a legacy, they may be the most recent in a long lineage of Yellow Jackets. For others, they’re part of a new generation that is planting roots that could start that lineage for years to come. Read more December 08, 2015 Dr. Deborah Turner honored as Accounting Leader by AWSCPA The Georgia Affiliate of the American Woman’s Society of Certified Public Accountants (AWSCPA) has selected Dr. Deborah Turner as the 2016 Legacies, Leaders & Luminaries Honoree. Read more November 30, 2015 Dr. Marie Thursby Named AAAS Fellow The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) has named Dr. Marie Thursby of Scheller College as a 2015 Fellow. Read more November 16, 2015 Womack Recognized as GT 1000 Instructor of Year Craig Womack, Assistant Dean & Director of Undergraduate Programs, was selected as the GT 1000 Outstanding Instructor of the Year at Georgia Institute of Technology. Read more November 12, 2015 Giving Students a Chance to 'Excel' New program creates college opportunities for students with disabilities. Read more November 05, 2015 Seletha Butler Named Ethics Champion Founder of the "Corporate Governance" class in the Scheller College of Business, Seletha Butler is known as Tech’s very own champion for ethics. Her career and research have provided her with a vast knowledge and experience base in ethics. Read more October 27, 2015 Assessing the Role of Negative Citations in Science The number of times academic articles are cited is among the time-honored measures used to assess scholarly standing and evaluate academic productivity. But not all are positive. Read more October 15, 2015 Scheller Graduate and Nike CIO Jim Scholefield Credits Degree with Career Success and Offers Advice for Current Students Scheller College of Business alumni and Nike, Inc. Global Chief Information Officer Jim Scholefield has a unique view of how technology is at the core of today’s modern business world. Read more October 07, 2015 Peter Swire talks European Court strike down of US-EU privacy agreement This week the European Court of Justice struck down the “Safe Harbor” agreement between the U.S. and the European Union. Peter Swire says decision will disrupt the way that many major online companies are able to offer unified services to consumers. Read more September 22, 2015 US News Reports Error in Scheller Undergraduate 2016 Ranking US News & World Report made an error on their most recent (2016) undergraduate rankings. The Scheller College Undergraduate Program, initially ranked #15 by the publication is actually ranked #29 (the same ranking as last year). This mistake is entirely the error of the publication. Read more September 17, 2015 Frank Blake and Mike Duke join Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business as distinguished executives in residence The former CEOs of Fortune 50 companies The Home Depot and Walmart are now affiliated with the Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business. Former chairman and CEO of The Home Depot, Frank Blake, and former president and CEO of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Mike Duke, will serve as distinguished executives in residence. Read more September 08, 2015 Attend Our MBA Open House October 10 No matter what your interests or career stage, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has the right MBA program for you. Gain an insider’s perspective on our Full-time, Evening, and Executive MBA programs. Read more August 11, 2015 MBA from Scheller College Helped Teri Nagel 'Excel Early' in New Role Just weeks after graduating from the Evening MBA program in December 2014, Teri Nagel accepted a position in the Procurement Leadership Development Program at Johnson & Johnson. From the headquarters of one of Johnson & Johnson's medical device affiliates, Ethicon, in Bridgewater, N.J., she supports medical and professional education for the company's Medical Device sector in North America. Read more July 27, 2015 Scheller College Hosts 2015 National Diversity MBA Summit The third annual summit, planned from 9 a.m. – 5 p.m., August 1, 2015 at the Scheller College of Business, is designed to connect underrepresented minorities, women, and LGBTQ students with resources to successfully apply to business school. However, all prospective MBA applicants who plan to apply to business school are welcome to attend. Read more July 20, 2015 SCM World Ranks Georgia Tech #5 for Best Supply Chain Universities Programs at the Scheller College of Business and Industrial and Systems Engineering (ISYE) were cited in Georgia Tech's number five ranking in SCM World’s Top 15 Supply Chain Universities. Read more July 09, 2015 Professor Peter Swire Testifies Before Senate on Impact of “Going Dark” Professor Peter Swire appeared before the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary to testify in the panel discussion “Going Dark: Encryption, Technology, and the Balance Between Public Safety and Privacy.” Read more June 30, 2015 Scheller Graduate Named among Nation’s Best Executive MBAs Kevin Smith, Senior Commercial Finance Manager with The Coca-Cola Company and Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business EMBA graduate has been named to Poets & Quants' Best Executive MBAs 2015. Read more June 23, 2015 Hard to Say I’m Sorry: How to Make an Apology Scheller faculty member Lucien Dhooge and Rebecca Burnett, School of Literature, Media, and Communication discuss what makes a public apology good or bad. Read more June 15, 2015 Dr. Henry Sauermann Studies Start-up "Joiners" Henry Sauermann, associate professor of strategic management co-authors study on "joiners" who help make startups successful. Read more May 28, 2015 Scheller College Organizes Radio Show on Sustainability Howard Connell, managing director of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, recently assembled a cross-section of sustainability experts for a panel discussion on Atlanta’s Business Radio X. Read more May 26, 2015 Study Shows Double-Digit Growth for Firms that Create Own Online Communities A new study co-authored by a Georgia Tech researcher in the journal Marketing Science shows double-digit revenue growth for firms that create their own brand-specific online communities. Read more May 22, 2015 Marketing Professor Ajay Kohli Receives Honorary Doctorate Ajay Kohli, professor of marketing and the Gary T. and Elizabeth R. Jones Chair, was recently received an honorary doctorate from the Corvinus University of Budapest, Hungary. Read more May 13, 2015 Scheller College Will Host Prestigious SFS Finance Cavalcade May 17-20 Nearly 300 leaders in the finance field, including faculty from top universities from around the world and members of the Federal Reserve System and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, will converge at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business from May 17-20 for the 2015 SFS (Society of Financial Studies) Finance Cavalcade. Read more May 06, 2015 Scheller College Ranked 1st for Best MBA Value As reported in Business Insider, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 1st in the world for Best MBA Value. Read more May 05, 2015 Scheller College Draws Leading Sustainability Operations Researchers to Event With support from the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business, Operations Management Associate Professor Atalay Atasu recently held a workshop that convened 45 of the leading sustainability operations researchers from the world at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 24, 2015 Faculty Profile: Rodriguez-Vila Studies Sustainability as Marketing Opportunity While working as global vice president of integrated marketing communications for Coca-Cola, Omar Rodriguez-Vila spent several years living in China in preparation for the company’s sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics. Read more April 24, 2015 Tech TI:GER Team Wins TiE Entrepreneurship Competition for Spinal Implant Device Georgia Tech’s Viapore team recently won first place ($5,000) in the TiE Atlanta Young Entrepreneurs University Competition for its medical device to improve the outcomes of spinal surgery. Read more April 20, 2015 Fortune Ranks Tech’s Undergrad Business Program 15th for ROI Fortune magazine recently ranked Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business 15th in the nation as one of the best undergraduate programs for earning a degree in business. Read more April 09, 2015 MBA Pathway Program Enabling Tech Students to Earn Admission, Work Two Years, Then Start Degree Shannon Mehl, BSBA 2014, says she jumped at the chance to gain acceptance into Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ MBA Program as she was preparing to graduate last year. Read more April 03, 2015 Top InVenture Competition Teams Include Scheller Business Administration Majors The first-place and people’s-choice winning teams of the Georgia Tech 2015 InVenture Prize Competition – the nation’s largest undergraduate business competition – both included business administration majors from Scheller College of Business. Read more April 01, 2015 Professor Vinod Singhal Elected POMS Fellow Vinod Singhal, who holds the Dunn Family Professorship in Operations Management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, was recently elected a fellow of the Production and Operations Management Society (POMS). Read more March 30, 2015 Toothbrush Technology for Developmentally Disabled Wins 2015 Ideas to Serve Competition Toothbrush technology that would empower people with intellectual and developmental disabilities to care for their teeth more effectively and independently won the 2015 Ideas to Serve (I2S) Competition March 27 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 28, 2015 Scheller College’s Business Analytics Center Holds 2015 Business Analytics and Big Data Forum Nearly 300 industry leaders and analytics experts converged at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business on March 20 for the 2015 Business Analytics and Big Data Forum. Read more March 26, 2015 Dare to Care: Discover Business Concepts that Could Improve World in Ideas to Serve Competition Showcase March 27 Seventeen teams will present business concepts that could help create a better world in the final round of the Ideas to Serve Competition (I2S) on Friday March 27 at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 19, 2015 IT Management Faculty Members Niculescu and Smith Honored for Teaching Georgia Tech’s Center for the Enhancement of Teaching and Learning (CETL) has presented Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business faculty members Florin Niculescu and Mike Smith with teaching honors. Read more March 14, 2015 Scheller College Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on March 12 at the College of Management's Seventh Annual Honors Day. Read more March 13, 2015 Alumni Profile: Roger Blythe Dedicates Career to Chick-fil-A When people meet Roger Blythe for the first time and learn that he works for Chick-fil-A, "the first question most of them ask is, 'Which one do you work at?'" chuckles the 1978 management science graduate of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 12, 2015 Technology to Monitor Diabetes in Pets Wins 2015 Startup Competition A team with technology that could help monitor the condition of cats and dogs with diabetes won Georgia Tech’s 2015 Startup Competition ($15,000, plus the Edison Prize: a $15,000 convertible note). Read more March 11, 2015 Information Technology Group Ranked 4th Worldwide for Top Research Publications Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Information Technology Management faculty group is ranked 4th worldwide, based on publications from 2012-2014 in the three leading Information Systems (IS) journals: Management Science, Information Systems Research and MIS Quarterly. Read more March 10, 2015 Georgia Tech MBA Ranks in U.S. News Top 30 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 30th (11th among public universities) for full-time MBA programs and 20th for part-time programs in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings. Read more March 10, 2015 Manpreet Hora Wins Class of 1940 W. Roane Beard Teaching Award Manpreet Hora, assistant professor of operations management, was selected by Georgia Tech’s Faculty Honors Awards Committee as the recipient of the Class of 1940 W. Roane Beard Outstanding Teaching Award. Read more March 07, 2015 Glenn Lurie, President and CEO, AT&T Mobility to Speak to Scheller EMBA Students The Scheller College of Business Executive MBA (EMBA) program will host guest speaker Glenn Lurie on March 14. Mr. Lurie will speak to the class from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in room 300. Read more March 06, 2015 Privacy Czar Peter Swire Recognized with the International Association of Privacy Professionals’ 2015 Privacy Leadership Award The International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) honored Scheller College Professor Peter Swire, an expert on privacy and cyber security, with the 2015 Privacy Leadership Award. Swire was recognized for his continued commitment to the privacy field in tackling emerging privacy and security issues in public policy, academia and industry. Read more March 04, 2015 Scheller College Hosts Semifinals of Global Social Venture Competition For the second consecutive year, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business served as host of the semifinal round (for the Eastern U.S. Region) of the Global Social Venture Competition. Read more March 01, 2015 Georgia Tech MBA Students Win Deloitte Supply Chain Challenge MBA students from Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recently placed first in the second annual Deloitte Supply Chain Challenge, winning a $7,000 prize. Read more March 01, 2015 Georgia Tech Team Places Third in Deloitte National Case Competition Georgia Tech students placed third out of 250 teams in the Deloitte National Case Competition. Read more February 19, 2015 Alumni Profile: Executive MBA Helps Chris Foster Attain Career Goals Toward the end of the 2000s, Chris Foster was growing uneasy about his industry's trajectory and what that could mean for his career. Read more February 19, 2015 Alumni Profile: Executive MBA Took James Jones' Career in New Direction If James T. Jones had the time to go back through the Executive MBA program at Georgia Tech again, "I'd do it in a heartbeat," says the 2009 graduate. Read more January 30, 2015 $5 Million Commitment to Georgia Tech from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation Names Scheller College’s Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business The Georgia Institute of Technology’s Scheller College of Business has received a $5 million commitment from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation to rename the Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability. To honor this commitment and Ray Anderson’s legacy, the Center will now be known as the Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business. Read more January 22, 2015 Alumni Profile: Steve Zelnak's Management Style Turned the Ordinary into Extraordinary at Martin Marietta Materials Knowing how to disarm explosives is good preparation for running a major corporation, according to Stephen P. "Steve" Zelnak Jr., retired CEO and chair of Raleigh, N.C.-based Martin Marietta Materials. Read more January 22, 2015 Executive MBA Profile: Degree Proved Key to Career Change for Yolanda Upshaw Yolanda Upshaw works for Equifax as a process improvement leader, a job that involves looking for efficiencies and opportunities for continuous improvement. Prior to joining the Atlanta-based consumer credit reporting agency, the Windsor, Conn., native embarked on another improvement project — herself. Read more January 22, 2015 Georgia Tech Researcher: Increasing Financial Leverage Could Benefit Companies Many profitable, publicly traded corporations may be leaving money on the table by not issuing more debt, increasing their financial leverage, according to Andras Danis, an assistant professor of finance at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more January 22, 2015 Georgia Tech Scheller College Launching Supply Chain Leader Development Program for Corporate Clients Due to popular demand, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Huang Executive Education Center will launch a consortium-based Supply Chain Leader Development Program in spring 2015. Read more January 13, 2015 Scheller Study: Crowd Science Provides Major Boost for Certain Research Projects Crowd science is making possible research projects that might otherwise be out of reach, tapping thousands of volunteers to help with such tasks as classifying animal photos, studying astronomical images, counting sea stars and examining cancer cell images. Also known as “citizen science,” these efforts to involve ordinary people in research projects have attracted interest from policy makers, scientific agencies and others. Read more January 12, 2015 Scheller Formalizes Four New Interdisciplinary MBA Concentrations Based on discussions and feedback from industry leaders, students, and an assessment of future trends, Scheller College’s renowned faculty recently formalized four new interdisciplinary concentrations of MBA study: Business Analytics, Managing Innovation and Technology, Quantitative Finance, and Strategic Sustainability. Read more December 05, 2014 Alumni Profile: Tech Provided Great Environment for Brian Edgerton to Explore Sustainability Before enrolling in Georgia Tech’s MBA Program, Brian Edgerton had long been interested in sustainability. “But when I came to Tech, I had the opportunity to embrace it,” he says. Read more December 05, 2014 Alumnus/Professor Gary Jones Brings Real-World Financial Experience to the Classroom The year was 1974. Gary T. Jones, three years out of what is now Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, had just finished his MBA and wanted to gain more experience in the financial industry. Read more November 26, 2014 Faculty Profile: Accounting Professor Mulford Refines Art of Synergy If you want to know how accounting professor Charles Mulford has time to accomplish all that he does in a day, he’ll sum it up for you in one word: synergy. Read more November 24, 2014 Broome Recognized as GT 1000 Instructor of Year Stan Broome, corporate relations manager in Scheller’s Undergraduate Office, who was selected as the GT 1000 Outstanding Instructor of the Year at Georgia Institute of Technology. Read more November 11, 2014 Georgia Tech's MBA Ranked in Bloomberg BusinessWeek's Top 30 Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business is ranked 28th (9th among public universities) in Bloomberg Businessweek's latest rankings of the nation's top full-time MBA programs. Read more November 06, 2014 Scheller College of Business Remembers Professor Sandra Slaughter Professor Sandra Slaughter, world-renowned for her contributions to information technology research, died unexpectedly on November 3. Read more October 30, 2014 PhD Alumni Profile: Watson-Manheim Explores Workplace Changes Enabled by Communications Technology Everywhere you go, people are focused on their cell phones: talking, texting, answering email and checking social media — and much of this activity is job related. In an age when it's possible to be engaged electronically with the world all the time, it's worth considering, How are computing technologies changing the way we work? Read more October 29, 2014 Alumni Profile: Degrees in Science and Business Are Winning Combination for Accenture's Sutcliff As digital technology links things together in useful ways, it often imparts a high level of systemic complexity. This means that developing answers to difficult problems requires a new way of thinking, according to Georgia Tech alumnus Mike Sutcliff, the group chief executive of Accenture Digital, who holds a master’s in management from Scheller College of Business. Read more October 29, 2014 Faculty Profile: Jennifer Carson Marr Studies Career Setbacks and Comebacks Jennifer Carson Marr admits that she had a naive view of what it takes to make it to the top in the corporate world when she first began her career. Read more October 21, 2014 Tech’s Quantitative and Computational Finance Program Ranked 8th Georgia Tech’s Master of Science in Quantitative and Computational Finance (QCF) is ranked 8th in the nation by the Financial Engineer and 10th in North America by QuantNet. Read more October 09, 2014 Scheller Ranked 8th in Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Sustainable MBA Programs Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 8th in Corporate Knights magazine’s Global 100 Sustainable MBA rankings for our success at integrating sustainability into the school experience. Read more October 02, 2014 Georgia Techs’ Center for International Business Education and Research among Elite Group to Win Grant Funding Georgia Tech’s Center for International Business Education and Research (GT CIBER) is only one of 17 such national centers of excellence selected for four more years of funding by the U.S. Department of Education. Read more September 25, 2014 2015 Startup Competition Starts Now: Tech Graduate Students Can Form Teams, Register Are you an aspiring entrepreneur at Georgia Tech? Do you want to learn how to launch a startup by doing instead of just talking? If so, then the 2015 Georgia Tech Startup Competition could be your golden ticket. Read more August 27, 2014 Alumni Profile: Joseph W. Evans Boosting Value of Tech's Business Degrees Joe Evans wasn't sent to college to discover the meaning of life or to "find himself." He was sent to college for one primary reason: "to make myself employable," the 1971 industrial management graduate says matter-of-factly. Read more August 20, 2014 Study: Early Bottlenecks in Developing Biopharmaceutical Products Delay Commercialization An analysis of patented university inventions licensed to biotechnology firms has revealed early bottlenecks on the path to commercialization, according to Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business researchers. Read more August 15, 2014 Scheller College Tailors Custom Program for China Mobile's Top Executives Twenty-eight top executives from China Mobile, the leading mobile services, provider in mainland China, traveled to Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business for the custom program “IT Transformation and Innovation in the Digital Age.” Read more August 14, 2014 Georgia Tech Receives $2 Million Grant from Walmart and The Walmart Foundation A collaborative led by researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology was awarded a Walmart U.S. Manufacturing Innovation Fund from Walmart, the Walmart Foundation and the United States Conference of Mayors (USCM). Read more August 12, 2014 Leadership for Social Good Study-Abroad Program Engages Students with Social Enterprises Every summer, the faculty of Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Institute for Leadership and Entrepreneurship leads a group of undergraduates on an educational experience in Hungary, Poland, and the Czech Republic. Read more August 08, 2014 Faculty Profile: Operations Management Professor Atalay Atasu Examines Environmental Issues Operations Management Professor Atalay Atasu’s interest in how companies manage balancing environmental and manufacturing concerns began during his PhD studies at INSEAD. Read more August 07, 2014 Faculty Profile: Tax Law Expert Davis-Nozemack Shifts Focus from Clients to Students Some university professors follow a direct route to their positions: undergraduate degree, doctoral degree, assistant professor, and so on. Other professors come to teaching in a more circuitous route—via other careers—and often use these varied experiences to inform their teaching. Karie Davis-Nozemack is one such professor. Read more June 27, 2014 Faculty Profile: Henry Sauermann Studies What Makes Scientists Tick As the son of physicians, Henry Sauermann expected he, too, would have a career in medicine. But after working in a hospital during his civil service in his home country of Germany, he realized medicine wasn't for him. "There were some aspects that I liked, but others that I didn't," says the associate professor of strategic management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more June 27, 2014 Faculty Profile: Yu Jeffrey Hu Examining Evolution of E-commerce When Yu Jeffrey Hu began his first academic post at Purdue University in 2005, he and his wife couldn’t find all the furniture they wanted in the college town of West Lafayette, Indiana. So the couple furnished almost their entire apartment through online shopping. Read more June 26, 2014 Professor Niculescu Mentors Students with Winning Disaster Relief Technology Georgia Tech students who won Software AG’s inaugural Student Idea Content were mentored by Marius Florin Niculescu, assistant professor of information technology management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more June 20, 2014 Professor Rothaermel Named Among Most Influential Business Researchers Worldwide Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Frank Rothaermel was named among the top 96 faculty members worldwide in the category Economics and Business by Thomson Reuters. Read more May 27, 2014 Scheller Wins Sustainable Business Education Prize Georgia Tech’s Center for Business Strategies for Sustainability (CBSS) was recently named one of the grand prize winners for the Dr. Alfred N. and Lynn Manos Page Prize for Sustainability Issues in Business Curricula. Read more May 21, 2014 Georgia Tech Offers New One-Year Master’s in Analytics Georgia Tech is now offering a one-year Master of Science in Analytics to meet the growing demand for savvy professionals who can transform data into relevant insights for making better business decisions. Read more May 15, 2014 Scheller Event Highlights Need for Partnerships to Create Sustainable Future During a recent panel discussion on sustainability at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Novelis President and CEO Phil Martens recalled an alarming conversation he had with a climatologist a decade ago. They had discussed the repercussions if society didn’t reduce carbon emissions, ranging from the melting of polar ice caps and jet-stream shifts to the contamination of the air, soil, and water. Read more May 08, 2014 PhD Alumnus Profile: Doctorate Helped Brian Jacobs Navigate into New Career Brian Jacobs discovered that one of the advantages of being an older student is that you're a bit more concerned with learning the material than you are with grades. Plus, your studies are supported by a wealth of previous industry and work experience, and you're already used to spending long hours juggling several tasks at once. Read more May 06, 2014 PhD Alumna Profile: Professor Lucy Gilson’s Sports Background Led to Studying Team Creativity Lucy Gilson, PhD 2000, began her journey into academia by accident – after getting hit in the head with a tennis ball. Read more May 06, 2014 PhD Profile: Lori Shefchik Studies Auditor Behavior When PhD candidate Lori Shefchik was in first grade, she thought she wanted to be teacher when she grew up – that is, until she found out you had to go to college. Read more April 22, 2014 Ideas to Serve Competition Honors Business Concepts Aiming to Improve World Nicaraguan families who’ve had to spend many hours each day trekking to collect enough clean water to survive could have more time to devote to more productive pursuits, thanks to the technology that won Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ 2014 Ideas to Serve Competition. Read more April 09, 2014 Researchers Find Social Media Able to Predict Stock Returns Researchers from three prestigious schools - Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, Purdue University, and City University of Hong Kong - have released what they believe is the first study proving the ability of social media to predict future stock returns and earnings surprises. Read more April 08, 2014 Top Leaders in Their Fields to Discuss Sustainability at Scheller’s May 1 Event Major corporate executives and other thought leaders on the environment will converge at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business at 4 p.m. on Thursday, May 1, to discuss “The Sustainability Advantage: The Art and Science of Creating Sustainable Value.” Read more April 04, 2014 Georgia Tech Jumps Four Spots in Bloomberg Businessweek Undergrad Rankings Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business jumped four spots (to 37th) in Bloomberg BusinessWeek's latest national rankings of the top undergraduate programs in business. Read more April 03, 2014 For Free or Not For Free: Scheller Professors Examine Various Software Business Models The market for software applications continues to grow exponentially, but some developers may not be hitting it as big as they could, according to researchers at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. With so much competition for consumer awareness of mobile apps and other software, companies need to carefully consider their marketing strategies – including methods for allowing a certain level of free access to the product, says Marius Florin Niculescu, assistant professor of IT Management Read more April 03, 2014 Scheller College Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2014 Georgia Tech College of Management honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 1 at the College of Management's Sixth Annual Honors Day. Read more March 31, 2014 MBA Pathway: Tech Students Can Earn Admission, Work Two Years, Then Start Degree Georgia Tech undergraduates in all majors now have an opportunity to get accepted into Scheller’s MBA Program before even graduating. Read more March 31, 2014 Undergraduate Profile: Technology & Management Program Preparing Elana Burton for Success Elana Burton of Peachtree City, Georgia, says she was originally “dead set” on attending college out of state. Read more March 18, 2014 Scheller College Hosting Semifinals of Global Service Venture Competition March 25 Five teams of student entrepreneurs from Georgia Tech, including a number of Scheller College MBA candidates, will advance to the regional semifinals round of the 2014 Global Social Venture Competition (GSVC) on March 25. Georgia Tech is hosting the semifinal round for the Eastern U.S. Region. Read more March 12, 2014 Scheller College MBA Programs Rank High in U.S. News Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 27th (10th among public universities) for full-time MBA programs and 20th for part-time programs in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings. Read more March 03, 2014 Alumni Profile: Art Brannen Explains the Power of “Yes” One of the best pieces of advice Art Brannen ever heard went like this: "When someone asks you to do something, and you're not sure if you should do it because you have so many demands already, say 'Yes' anyway," he advises. Read more March 03, 2014 Alumni Profile: Home Depot’s Kelly Barrett a Dedicated Booster of Georgia Tech When it comes to naming her favorite colors, Kelly Barrett is divided. On weekends – especially during football season – she favors Georgia Tech's white and gold. But during the week, orange is her color of choice. Read more February 24, 2014 Interdisciplinary Team Wins Scheller’s BizTech Case Challenge Team Spectrum won the BizTech Case Challenge at Scheller College of Business, qualifying them to represent Georgia Tech in the annual Competition on Management Information Systems (CoMIS) case competition at the University of Minnesota in early April. Read more February 20, 2014 Study: Higher Status Means Lower Performance When Careers Go into Reverse How do high-status individuals cope with serious career setbacks? A new study by Scheller College's Jennifer Marr examines the issue. Read more February 10, 2014 Scheller Team Wins Tech Round of Deloitte Consulting Case Competition A team of four Georgia Tech business administration majors recently won the Georgia Tech round of the Deloitte Consulting Case Competition. Read more January 27, 2014 MBA Student Profile: Sophia Bromfield Wants to Lead Greener Approaches to Construction Design Sophia Bromfield believes that environmentally friendly design is going to be a factor that influences every company's real estate decisions in the future. Read more January 24, 2014 Georgia Tech PhD Students Win Top Awards from Academy of Management Two Georgia Tech PhD students won top paper honors from the Operations Management (OM) division of the Academy of Management, along with their collaborating faculty members. Read more January 24, 2014 MBA Profile: Mansoor Baloch Focused on the Triple Bottom Line Mansoor Baloch recognizes that those interested in sustainable business practices sometimes get labeled as "tree huggers." But that's an oversimplification, he says. Read more January 21, 2014 Undergraduate Profile: Internship Led to Business Analyst Position for Parrish Brown Parrish Brown is thankful that she hasn’t had to worry about job hunting during her senior year. She was offered a business analyst position at Chic-fil-A right after her summer 2013 internship at the company’s headquarters. Read more January 15, 2014 Spring 2014 IMPACT Series Kicks Off with GivingPoint Chairman Derek Smith Georgia Tech’s Spring 2014 IMPACT Speaker Series will kick off with Derek Smith, founder and chairman of GivingPoint and The Game of Golf Institute, on Wednesday, Jan. 22. Read more January 14, 2014 Faculty Profile: Jeffrey Hales Contributing to the Setting of Financial Reporting Standards As Jeffrey Hales was finishing his doctorate at Cornell University in 2003, Wall Street was still nursing serious wounds inflicted by corrupt accounting practices at industry leaders such as Enron and Worldcom. Those scandals got him interested in playing a role in strengthening accounting standards. Read more January 13, 2014 MBA Alumni Profile: Mikey Mulford Bringing Green Touch to "Black Gold" Production Mikey Mulford (MBA 2007) wouldn't have envisioned that the passion he developed for green business during his time at Georgia Tech would translate into working on projects related to oil and natural gas drilling. Read more December 19, 2013 Professor Peter Swire an Author of White House Report on Intelligence and Communications Technology The White House released the Report of President Obama’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technology. One of the five authors of the report, Peter Swir is the Nancy J. and Lawrence P. Huang Professor in the Scheller College of Business. Read more December 17, 2013 Cecil B. Day Program in Business Ethics Ends Inaugural Year with Successful Programs The pressure to succeed in a competitive business environment can be overriding and a sense of honor, integrity and character can too easily be lost along the way. Addressing these issues with the next generation of global business leaders has never been more important. Read more December 13, 2013 Alumni Profile: North Highland CEO Says Supporting Scheller is Good for Business As CEO of North Highland, a top-drawer consulting company headquartered in Buckhead, Daniel Reardon oversees a $650 million operation with 2,300 employees in 50 offices located in the U.S., Asia and Europe. Read more November 19, 2013 PhD Alumnus Profile: Edmund Prater Makes Unexpected Career Change Edmund Prater, PhD 1999, knew it was time for a career change when the Russian mafia came calling. Read more November 12, 2013 Tech's Executive MBA Program Ranked Among World's Best Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business was recently ranked 34th in the world (27th in the United States) by Bloomberg Businessweek for its Executive MBA Program. Read more October 28, 2013 Tech Team Wins Bank of America Campus Challenge A team of Georgia Tech undergraduate students recently won the Bank of America’s 2013 Campus Challenge (a business and technology case competition), beating out 11 other participating schools. Read more October 10, 2013 Tech Full-time MBA Rises in Forbes Ranking Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business recently rose to 35th in Forbes magazine’s ranking of the nation’s top Full-time MBA programs. Read more October 05, 2013 PhD Profile: Zoey Chen Examines Word-of-Mouth Effects in Marketing As a foodie who enjoys trying new restaurants, Zoey Chen became fascinated with the consumer reviews posted on Websites such as Yelp. Reading them eventually inspired her to study factors (including immediacy) influencing the impact of online reviews. Read more October 04, 2013 Agnes Scott College Partners with Georgia Tech on Path to MBA for Women Students Agnes Scott College has signed a memorandum of understanding with Georgia Institute of Technology’s Scheller College of Business to address gender disparity by providing a pathway for Agnes Scott students to enroll in Georgia Tech’s Master of Business Administration (MBA) program. Read more October 04, 2013 Student Foundation’s Investments Committee Hits $1 Million Mark The Investments Committee of the Georgia Tech Student Foundation (GTSF) recently reached a milestone of attaining $1 million in net asset value. Read more October 01, 2013 Faculty Profile: Marco Ceccagnoli Focused on Drivers of Innovation The early days of European economic integration stimulated Marco Ceccagnoli’s interest in innovation. At the time, in the early 1990s, he was working on his master’s thesis at the University of Rome, theorizing on whether the formation of the European Union would have beneficial economic effects. Read more September 26, 2013 Tech’s Quantitative and Computational Finance Program Ranked 10th Georgia Tech’s Master of Science in Quantitative and Computational Finance (QCF) was recently ranked 10th in North America by QuantNet. Read more September 24, 2013 Attend Inaugural Event of Cecil B. Day Program in Business Ethics on Oct. 4 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business will host the inaugural event of the Cecil B. Day Program in Business Ethics on Friday, Oct. 4. The event, which will include a free lunch and panel discussion on business ethics, will run from noon to 1:15 p.m. Read more September 17, 2013 Novelis CEO Martens to Discuss Global Leadership at Sept. 18 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature Philip Martens, president and CEO of Novelis, on Wednesday, Sept. 18. Read more September 10, 2013 Scheller College Rises in U.S. News Undergraduate Business Rankings Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business is ranked 27th (up from 31st) in U.S. News & World Report’s latest rankings of the nation's Best Undergraduate Business Programs. Read more September 06, 2013 Alumni Profile: Dedication to Accenture Leads to CFO Role for David Rowland David Rowland considers himself a rare breed in today’s business world, as far as corporate loyalty goes. He still works for Accenture, the company he joined in 1983 just after earning his bachelor’s degree from Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more August 28, 2013 Faculty Profile: Soumen Ghosh Helping Businesses Get Better Soumen Ghosh loves helping business leaders get better at running companies. That’s been a big part of his job for the past few years, as he’s served as faculty director of non-degree and custom programs for the Scheller College’s Huang Executive Education Center. Read more August 27, 2013 President Obama Selects Tech Professor Peter Swire for Intelligence Review Group President Barack Obama has selected Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Peter Swire to serve as part of a high-level group of experts to review the nation’s intelligence and communications technologies. Read more August 20, 2013 Alumni Profile: Carolyn Holcomb Watching Out for Your Privacy Carolyn Holcomb (MSM 1991) encourages companies to focus on consumer and employee privacy not only because it’s the law, but also because it’s the right thing to do. Read more August 07, 2013 Faculty Profile: Jonathan Clarke Leading Students to Wall Street Seeing movie star Michael Douglas wheeling and dealing on a beach via a brick-size cell phone made an indelible impression on Jonathan Clarke when he first watched the film Wall Street in 1987. Read more August 01, 2013 Howard Connell Named Director of Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability recently named Howard Connell professor of the practice of sustainable business. Read more July 26, 2013 Tech Professor Argues Gender Bias a Consequence of Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s Financial Expert Rule In 2002, the federal government mandated that corporate boards of directors include at least one “audit committee financial expert” to help avert future accounting scandals. But the title and description of that position may have an unintended negative effect on the gender diversity of corporate boards, argues Seletha Butler, assistant professor of law and ethics at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more July 23, 2013 Faculty Profile: Sara Dommer Exploring How Brands Influence Personal Identity Sara Dommer doesn’t have to open her mother’s cupboard to tell you exactly what brands of spaghetti sauce and other products are housed inside. “She’s a big brand loyalist,” she explains. Read more July 18, 2013 Scheller College Leads Georgia Tech in Spring 2013 Job Placement According to the Spring 2013 Career and Salary Survey just released, the Scheller College of Business was the leading College at Georgia Tech for job placement at graduation. Read more July 01, 2013 Denning Technology & Management Program Launches International Capstone Project Georgia Tech’s Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program is preparing undergraduate students for the global workforce through the establishment of a new international capstone project. Read more June 28, 2013 Professor Slaughter Studies Massive Cyber Project That Could Transform Internet Four years ago, Sandra Slaughter began studying the project management of a huge National Science Foundation (NSF) initiative with an ambitious goal: the creation of a “new Internet” – one that is more secure, accessible, predictable and reliable than today’s World Wide Web. Read more June 26, 2013 Faculty Profile: Professor Christina Shalley Finding Keys to Creativity Summary text goes here and here and here and here and here and here and here. Read more June 26, 2013 Faculty Profile: Professor Lucien Dhooge Asks Tough Ethical Questions “When you do business overseas, are your ethics portable?,” asks Professor Lucien Dhooge. “Do they follow you to Russia or India, where bribery is often a standard business practice?” Read more June 24, 2013 Scheller College’s Net Impact Chapter Awarded Gold Standing Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ Net Impact chapter recently received the prestigious Gold standing designation. Read more May 31, 2013 Scheller Dean Steve Salbu Announces He Won't Seek Third Term in 2014 After seven years on the job, Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Dean Steve Salbu has announced that he will not be seeking a third term after his current one expires on June 30, 2014. Read more May 30, 2013 Scheller College Ranks 9th for Operations Management Specialty Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 9th among undergraduate business programs for the Operations Management specialty, according to Bloomberg Businessweek. Read more May 08, 2013 Sustainability Center Receives Grant from Kendeda Fund Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business’ new Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability recently received a $300,000 grant from the Kendeda Fund. This follows a $750,000, three-year grant received earlier this year from the Ray C. Anderson Foundation to start the Center. Read more April 25, 2013 Scheller Faculty Widely Honored, Published Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Scheller College of Business continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Read more April 19, 2013 Scheller College Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2013 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 18 at the Fifth Annual Honors Day. Read more April 16, 2013 Undergraduate Profile: Business Owner Christine Proctor Starts Entrepreneurship Society Sophomore Christine Proctor was already a successful business owner – with years of experience under her chef’s apron strings – when she decided to start the Scheller Society of Entrepreneurs last fall. Read more April 11, 2013 Anemia Testing Technology Wins Ideas to SERVE Competition Anemo Check's technology to improve the accuracy and affordability of testing for anemia around the world won first place in the 2013 Ideas to SERVE (I2S) Competition at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 04, 2013 Faculty Profile: Beril Toktay a Pioneer in Sustainability Research As a young girl growing up in Turkey, Beril Toktay accepted water and air pollution as a fact of life. “It wasn’t until I went abroad that I saw how much better it could be,” says the professor of operations management and holder of the Brady Family Chair at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more April 03, 2013 Discover Business Concepts that Could Improve World in Ideas to SERVE Showcase April 5 Twenty-nine teams will present business concepts that could help create a better world in the preliminary round (poster showcase) of the Ideas to SERVE Competition (I2S) on Friday April 5 in the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Read more March 26, 2013 GPB’s Teya Ryan to Discuss Navigating Career Fears in IMPACT Lecture March 27 Teya Ryan, president and executive director of Georgia Public Broadcasting (GPB), will discuss overcoming career challenges on Wed. March 27 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more March 12, 2013 Tech’s Full-time and Evening MBA Programs Rise in U.S. News Rankings Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 27th (10th among public universities) for full-time MBA programs and 24th for part-time programs in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings. Read more March 08, 2013 Manpreet Hora Wins Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award Manpreet Hora, assistant professor of operations management, has won Georgia Tech's 2013 CETL/BP Junior Faculty Teaching Excellence Award. Read more March 08, 2013 TI:GER Team GoNow Wins Business Plan Competition for Bladder Control Technology Technology that could help spinal-cord injury sufferers control their bladder by remote control won first place ($10,000) in the 2013 Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition. Read more February 27, 2013 Evening MBA Team Advances to Regional Finals of Hult Prize for Social Entrepreneurship A team of Georgia Tech Evening MBA students has advanced to the regional finals of the fourth annual Hult Prize, which is dedicated to launching the next wave of entrepreneurs focused on solving the world’s social challenges. Read more February 21, 2013 See Teams Compete in Specialty Categories at the Business Plan Competition Reception Feb. 28 Multiple teams will present their business concepts on Thursday, Feb. 28 during the Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition Reception. Read more February 20, 2013 Executive MBA Profile: Matt Hopp Gains Skills to Start Own Pharmacy Developing his entrepreneurial skills through Georgia Tech's Executive MBA in Management of Technology program gave Matt Hopp the confidence he needed to start his own business. Read more February 20, 2013 Full-time MBA Profile: Entrepreneurship Program Preparing Heather Y. Kim for Future Careers Second-year MBA student Heather Y. Kim credits a lot of her drive for success to her father, who brought his family to Atlanta from South Korea with only $300 in his pocket when she was four years old. Read more February 19, 2013 MetroKitchen CEO Lynn Clarke to Discuss Career Building at Feb. 20 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature alumnus Lynn Clarek, CEO of MetroKitchen, discuss career building on Wednesday, Feb. 20. Read more February 19, 2013 Scheller College Wins Grant to Start Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is establishing the Center on Business Strategies for Sustainability, thanks to a three-year, $750,000 grant recently awarded by the Ray C. Anderson Foundation. Read more February 13, 2013 Dare to Care: Develop Concept to Improve Society, Environment through Ideas to SERVE Competition Rolls of tubing, uncoiling from helicopters, creating new pipelines in mere minutes; Human waste, treated by the sun instead of an expensive sewer system. Is this the infrastructure of the future? If some recent Georgia Tech grads have anything to do with it, the answer will be yes. Read more February 13, 2013 Schneider Electric Executive to Discuss Why Sustainability Matters in Feb. 13 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature Chris Curtis, CEO of Schneider Electric (North America), discussing the importance of sustainable business practices on Wednesday, Feb. 13. Read more February 05, 2013 Georgia Tech's Business School Ranked 6th in World for IT Specialty Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 6th the world (1st in the Southeast) for the Information Technology (IT) specialty, according to Bloomberg BusinessWeek. Read more February 05, 2013 Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer to Discuss Leadership at Feb. 6 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature alumnus Walt Ehmer, president and CEO of Waffle House Inc., on Wednesday, Feb. 6. Read more February 01, 2013 Atlanta Dream Co-owner to Discuss Sports Business at Feb. 27 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature alumnus Mary Rockett Brock, co-owner of WNBA team The Atlanta Dream, on Wednesday, Feb. 27. Read more January 30, 2013 IMPACT Lecture Jan. 30 Features Predictable Success CEO Les McKeown Georgia Tech’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature Les McKeown, president and CEO of Predictable Success, on Wednesday, Jan. 30. Read more January 25, 2013 Georgia Tech New Partner of Global Social Venture Competition Georgia Tech is the newest partner of the Global Social Venture Competition, in which students throughout the country are eligible to compete. Participating teams must have a business plan that shows potential for financial return on investment in addition to social and/or environmental benefits. Read more January 07, 2013 Frank Rothaermel Ranked among World's Top Web-savvy Professors Frank Rothaermel, professor of strategic management at Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business, was recently named among the world's Top 100 Web-savvy Professors by BestOnlineUniversities. Read more January 07, 2013 Ravi Subramanian Named Faculty Director of Denning Technology & Management Program Ravi Subramanian, associate professor of operations management, is the new faculty director of the Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more December 13, 2012 Undergraduate Profile: Cristina Lara Immersed Herself in China through International Plan Although Cristina Lara was attracted to Georgia Tech by the opportunity to participate in the International Plan for undergraduates, she already had more experience living overseas than in the United States. Read more December 12, 2012 All-Star Scientists: Study Examines Role of “Helpful” Scientists in the Success of Others Researchers are typically judged by their ability to frequently publish papers in high-impact journals that are subsequently cited by other studies. This measure of productivity encapsulates an individual's output that is personally beneficial. Read more December 11, 2012 MBA Profile: Alumnus Josh Bank Making Big Deals in Asian Real Estate When Josh Bank (MBA 2011) enrolled in Tech's full-time MBA program, he was open to wherever his education might take him. But he didn't expect it to be managing commercial real estate transactions all across Asia on behalf of some of the world's largest corporations. Read more December 06, 2012 Marketing Professor Offers Helpful Hints for Healthy Holiday Eating If you’re counting calories or looking to stay trim during the holidays, consider using the research findings of Koert van Ittersum, associate professor of marketing in Georgia Tech’s Scheller College of Business. He’s conducted several studies validating techniques that could help you eat less throughout the holiday season when you’re barraged by a seemingly endless parade of treats. Read more December 06, 2012 Professor Explains Growing Role of E-Commerce in Holiday Shopping As consumers shop for the holidays, e-commerce will continue to play a key role, says Yu Jeffrey Hu, associate professor of information technology management at Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business. Blurred boundaries between online and offline shopping will give consumers more choices, more savings, and better shopping experience, he adds. Read more December 06, 2012 Three Accounting Professors Recognized among Most Prolific for Publication Activity Three accounting professors in Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business were recently ranked in the top 10 for publication activity among peers who earned their doctorates in the same years as they did. Read more November 15, 2012 Georgia Tech's MBA Ranked in Bloomberg BusinessWeek's Top 25 Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 23rd (8th among public universities) in Bloomberg BusinessWeek's latest rankings of the nation's top full-time MBA programs. Read more November 12, 2012 Robin Bienfait to Discuss RIM's Future Plans in IMPACT Lecture Nov. 14 Robin Bienfait, chief information officer of Research in Motion, will discuss the challenges she faces in helping ensure her company's long-term success on Wed. Nov. 14 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more October 29, 2012 Profile: Dean's Scholar Janani Raj Aiming for the Corner CEO Office Though freshman Janani Raj lives in a Coke town, she idolizes Indra Nooyi, the CEO of PepsiCo. "She comes from around the same area in India that I'm from," Raj says. Read more October 29, 2012 Profile: Keegan Christensen Flying High in Denning Technology & Management Program HOPE was running out for Keegan Christensen before he learned about a new scholarship opportunity for students in the Denning Technology & Management (T&M) Program at Georgia Tech. Read more October 29, 2012 Scheller Faculty Widely Honored Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Scheller College of Business continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Read more October 23, 2012 Professor Toktay Named Holder of Brady Family Chair Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business has named Beril Toktay, professor of operations management, as holder of the Brady Family Chair. "Beril is a preeminent scholar in the field of sustainable operations management," says Dean Steve Salbu. Read more October 16, 2012 Georgia Tech in Forbes Top 10 for Best Graduate Starting Salaries Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 8th nationally in Forbes' recent ranking of the "10 Best Business Schools for Salary." Read more October 15, 2012 Greg Sullivan to Discuss "My Wal-Mart Education" in October 17 IMPACT Lecture Wal-Mart's Senior Vice President Greg Sullivan will discuss lessons from his work experience on Wed. October 17 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more October 11, 2012 Annual Williams Lecture Oct. 24 to Feature McKinsey's Vivian Hunt Discussing Healthcare Challenges Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business' fourth annual Thomas R. Williams Distinguished Lecture on February 16 will feature Vivian Hunt, a director of McKinsey & Company, discussing private and public healthcare in the United States and beyond. Read more October 09, 2012 Princeton Review: Georgia Tech's MBA Program among Best for Classroom Experience Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business is ranked 7th for Best Classroom Experience among Top MBA programs, according to The Princeton Review's latest annual guidebook "The Best 296 Business Schools." Read more October 08, 2012 Georgia Tech Business Network Hosting All-star Panel on Entrepreneurship If you're thinking about starting a business or looking to drive innovation within a larger organization, consider attending an all-star panel discussion of investors and entrepreneurs at 6:30 p.m. Thurs. Oct. 11 at Scheller College of Business (LeCraw Auditorium). Read more October 01, 2012 Convicted HealthSouth Co-founder to Warn Against Fraud in Oct. 3 IMPACT Lecture HealthSouth's co-founder and former CFO Aaron Beam Jr., who was once jailed for bank fraud, will discuss "Fifty Shades of Grey" on Wed. Oct. 3 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 26, 2012 First Data's Mark Herrington to Discuss Universal Commerce in Sept. 26 IMPACT Lecture First Data's Mark Herrington will discuss "Universal Commerce for Today’s Connected Consumer" on Wed. September 26 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 08, 2012 Music, Lighting Change Eating Patterns in Fast Food Restaurant A new study from Georgia Tech and Cornell University shows that softer lighting and relaxing ambient music in a fast food restaurant affects the eating patterns of customers. The report shows that customers in fancier dining areas will eat up to 18 percent fewer calories than those in typical restaurant conditions. Read more August 23, 2012 Professor Proposes Steps to Creating More Diverse Boards of Directors In today's globally competitive marketplaces, businesses are looking for any and every advantage over their competitors. According to Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business Professor Seletha Butler's article, "All on Board! Strategies for Constructing Diverse Board of Directors," published recently in the Virginia Law & Business Review, the board of directors of companies should be more inclusive, reflecting "the demographics and composition of the global marketplace that the companies serve." Read more August 21, 2012 Executive MBA Profile: Degree Led to Job, Promotion for Kathleen Rouse When Kathleen Rouse joined the Executive MBA in Global Business Program in 2009, she was an entrepreneur looking to fine-tune her business acumen and better understand the global market. Read more August 20, 2012 Executive MBA Profile: Danny Tandra Gaining More Strategic Perspective For Danny Tandra, Georgia Tech's Executive MBA in Management of Technology (EMBA-MOT) was all part of the plan. He knew he needed this business education to prepare him for greater levels of responsibility in his career. Read more August 15, 2012 Phd Success Story: Sam Ransbotham After earning two degrees from Georgia Tech, Sam Ransbotham considered pursuing his PhD in information technology management from a different institution for the sake of variety. Read more August 14, 2012 Professor Breznitz's Book on China Wins Top Honor Danny Breznitz, associate professor of international affairs and strategic management at the Scheller College of Business, recently won the British International Studies Association's Susan Strange Best Book Award for 2012. Read more August 10, 2012 Marie Thursby Named Regents' Professor Georgia Tech has named Marie Thursby of the Scheller College of Business a Regents' Professor. Read more June 29, 2012 Affordable Care Act: Students React in Real Time to Supreme Court Decision As the U.S. Supreme Court announced its decision affirming the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, students in professor Bill Todd's Principles of Management course watched in real time and then analyzed the impact on various industry sectors within healthcare (hospitals, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, insurance, etc.). The subject for the day was managing change. Read more June 12, 2012 Introducing Georgia Tech's Scheller College of Business: Transformational Gift Positions College for Global Prominence The Georgia Institute of Technology has announced a transformational gift from an alumnus that has resulted in the renaming of the Institute’s former College of Management. Read more May 07, 2012 Students, Faculty Recognize Each Other for Excellence Georgia Tech College of Management students recently took time to honor their peers and faculty members for their dedication and excellence. Read more April 25, 2012 Accounting Professor Comiskey Retires after 32 Years at College Georgia Tech College of Management recently celebrated the career of Eugene Comiskey, who retired after 32 years on the faculty. Read more April 24, 2012 College of Management Faculty, Staff Receive Numerous Honors | 2012 Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Georgia Tech College of Management continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Staff accomplishments have also reflected well on the College. Read more April 23, 2012 Global Executive MBA Helps Delta Pilot Soar into Strategy Role As a pilot for Delta Air Lines, David Sneed was already well acquainted with the view from 35,000 feet. But he knew he needed that level of business perspective (through a global lens) to achieve his goal of becoming a major airline executive. So he enrolled in the Global Executive MBA program at Georgia Tech College of Management in 2010. Read more April 23, 2012 PhD Profile: Wen Wen Lands Academic Position at Top University As Wen Wen explored PhD programs, she knew she wanted a supportive environment that would hone both her research and teaching abilities. Georgia Tech College of Management proved to be the ideal academic location for this native of Chengdu, China. Read more April 20, 2012 College of Management Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2012 Georgia Tech College of Management honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 19 at the College of Management's Fourth Annual Honors Day. Read more April 10, 2012 IMPACT Speaker Series to Feature MedShare CEO Meredith Rentz on April 11 Georgia Tech will conclude the Spring 2012 IMPACT Speaker Series on Wednesday April 11 with Meredith Rentz, CEO and president of Medshare. Read more April 06, 2012 Mekong Green Tech's Environmental Technology Wins Ideas to SERVE Competition Mekong Green Tech's technology to clean up rural Vietnam's rural brick-making industry won first place in the 2012 Ideas to SERVE (I2S) Competition at Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more April 05, 2012 MBA Students Honored for Establishing Community Fund Unexpected events that rocked the lives of members of the Georgia Tech College of Management community in recent years led to the establishment of the business school's Community Fund to help those in need. Read more March 30, 2012 Dare to Care: Learn about Business Concepts for Improving World in I2S Competition Interested in innovative business concepts that could help improve society or preserve the environment? Then you're welcome to attend the poster showcase and reception of the fourth annual Ideas to SERVE (I2S) Competition at 6 p.m. Monday April 2 in the atrium of Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more March 23, 2012 College Celebrates Women's History Month with Events, Video The theme of this year’s Women’s History Month is Women’s Education – Women’s Empowerment. In celebration, Georgia Tech College of Management has special events for the students, alumni, faculty, and staff of the business school. Read more March 23, 2012 TI:GER Teams Excel in 2012 Business Plan Competition Two teams from the Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER® Program) – Tungo and Cardiam – excelled in the 2012 Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition. Read more March 21, 2012 Georgia Tech Jumps 13 Spots in BusinessWeek Undergrad Rankings Georgia Tech College of Management jumped 13 spots (to 37th) in Bloomberg BusinessWeek's latest national rankings of the top undergraduate programs in business. Read more March 12, 2012 MAID Takes Top Business Plan Competition Awards for Breathing Tube Technology For the first time in the 12-year history of the Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition (BPC), a team of undergraduates placed first, winning for its strategy to market a revolutionary type of breathing tube. Read more March 12, 2012 U.S. News: Georgia Tech's Full-time MBA First in Nation for Employment at Graduation The great success of Georgia Tech MBA graduates on the job market is reflected in the latest U.S. News & World Report rankings of full-time MBA programs. Georgia Tech College of Management is ranked first for employment at graduation among all ranked business schools. Read more February 27, 2012 Siemens Industry CEO to Discuss Sustainable Infrastructure in Feb. 29 IMPACT Lecture Siemens Industry CEO Daryl Dulaney will discuss how sustainable infrastructure is critical to the competitiveness of American cities on Wed. February 29 in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more February 24, 2012 See Teams Compete in Specialty Categories at the Business Plan Competition Reception March 1 Thirty-eight teams will present their business concepts on Thursday, March 1 during the Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition Reception. Read more February 17, 2012 TI:GER® Team Cardiam Places in Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition Cardiam, a team that evolved in Georgia Tech's TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program, placed third overall in the 2012 Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition and won first place for their presentation. Read more February 15, 2012 Huang Executive Education Center: Helping Coca-Cola and Other Clients Lead and Succeed Passersbys by the Acuity Brands Plaza of Georgia Tech College of Management might have caught an unusual sight recently. Thirty-seven supply chain leaders were working in teams to successfully construct an aqueduct out of multiple pieces of white paper. Their aim was to successfully transport the contents of a pitcher of water down about six feet into another vessel at the other end. Read more February 09, 2012 MBA Profile: Frank Wilson Making Difference Through Pro Bono Consulting Knowing that his innovative work through Georgia Tech's Pro Bono Consulting Program would help doctors to better assist sick children was extremely gratifying for MBA student Frank Wilson. Read more February 08, 2012 February 15 IMPACT Speaker to Discuss Communicating Science, Show Global Warming Film Randy Olson, author of Don't Be Such a Scientist: Talking Substance in an Age of Style, will discuss the challenges that scientists face in communicating with the public during his appearance in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series at 4:30 p.m. February 15 in the College of Management. Read more February 08, 2012 Labovitz to Discuss Atlanta's Public-Private Partnerships in Feb. 8 IMPACT Lecture Georgia Tech College of Management’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature Steven Labovitz, a partner with McKenna, Long & Aldridge LLP and the City of Atlanta's former chief of staff, on Wednesday, Feb. 8. Read more February 03, 2012 Steve Salbu Commits to a Second Term as Dean Steve Salbu, who joined Georgia Tech College of Management in 2006, has committed to a second term as dean. Read more January 31, 2012 IMPACT Series to Feature Diversified Search’s Veronica Biggins on Feb. 1 Georgia Tech College of Management’s IMPACT Speaker Series will feature Veronica Biggins, managing director of Diversified Search LLC, on Wednesday, Feb. 1. Read more January 24, 2012 IMPACT Series Kicks Off Jan. 25 with Give Smart Author Tom Tierney Georgia Tech will kick off the Spring 2012 IMPACT Speaker Series on Wednesday Jan. 25 with Tom Tierney, chairman and co-founder of the Bridgespan Group, who will discuss effective philanthropy. Read more December 12, 2011 College, SCTE Team to Target High-potential Managers with New Exec Ed Program Georgia Tech College of Management's Huang Executive Education Center and the Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers (SCTE) have announced a new Cable Industry Management Development Program that is intended to advance practical management skills within high-potential, mid-level cable engineering and operations management professionals. Read more November 30, 2011 Plate Size, Color Can Lead People to Over-serve Food With the holiday season upon us – and all the festive food it brings – people should know that the color contrast between dinnerware and what's placed on top can affect how much we serve ourselves and consume, according a Georgia Tech College of Management researcher. Read more November 22, 2011 Evening MBA Student Sourjo Basu Benefits from International Opportunity When Sourjo Basu visited the Czech Republic during Spring Break 2011, it wasn’t just a leisure trip. As a participant in the College of Management’s International Practicum course for Full-time and Evening MBA students, he had a job to do. Read more November 22, 2011 Study: Vivid Language in Reports Affects Investor Judgments In recent years, regulators have raised concerns that vivid language used by media and others in the financial community can inflate stock market bubbles and induce panics. Georgia Tech researchers have shown that such language can indeed influence investor behavior in the study “Who Believes the Hype: An Experimental Examination of How Language Affects Investor Judgments.” Read more November 14, 2011 Carl Nordgren to Discuss Creative Entrepreneurship in Nov. 16 IMPACT Lecture Carl Nordgren will discuss "The Creative Populist Revolution" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, Nov. 16 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more November 14, 2011 College Honors Distinguished Alumni at Celebration Awards Georgia Tech College of Management recognized the vision, achievement, and leadership of its alumni Nov. 11 at the business school’s Awards Celebration, inducting three leaders into the Hall of Fame, Academy of Distinguished Alumni, and Council of Outstanding Young Alumni. Read more November 09, 2011 Late Professor Skip Beebe Leaves Impressive Legacy in Real Estate Field M.J. "Skip" Beebe, an alumnus of and professor at Georgia Tech College of Management, died unexpectedly on Monday, November 7. Read more November 04, 2011 College of Management and Advanced Technology Development Center Enhance Entrepreneurial Path for Executive MBA Students Georgia Tech College of Management, in collaboration with the Advanced Technology Development Center (ATDC), has developed a new partnership for enhancing the training of aspiring entrepreneurs in the College’s Executive MBA in Management of Technology program. Read more November 01, 2011 GameStop CEO J. Paul Raines to Speak at Tech Nov. 2 J. Paul Raines (IE' 85) will discuss his journey from Georgia Tech graduate to CEO of GameStop at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, Nov. 2 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more October 25, 2011 SunTrust Banks CEO Bill Rogers to Discuss Future of Banking in Oct. 26 IMPACT Lecture Bill Rogers, president and CEO of the SunTrust Banks, will discuss "The Next Decade in Banking – Being Part of the Solution" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 19 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more October 23, 2011 Financial Times Lists Tech's Global Executive MBA among World's Best Georgia Tech College of Management's Global Executive MBA is among the world's best, according to the Financial Times latest rankings. Among Executive MBA Programs, the College of Management is ranked 60th worldwide (and 1st among schools in the University System of Georgia). Read more October 17, 2011 Federal Reserve of Atlanta CEO Dennis Lockhart to Speak at Tech Oct. 19 Dennis Lockhart, president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, will discuss the work of his organization at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 19 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more October 11, 2011 Oct. 12 IMPACT to Feature "Let's Talk Business Live!" Leadership Discussion "Let's Talk Business Live!" radio show host Mitch Schlimer will lead the Wednesday, Oct. 12 event in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series, facilitating a discussion on "real-life lessons in leadership and entrepreneurship" with the creators of Atlanta's National Center for Civil and Human & Rights for online broadcast. Read more October 04, 2011 IMPACT Speaker Kevin Trapani to Discuss Social Responsibility Oct. 5 Kevin Trapani, president and CEO of The Redwoods Group, will discuss "Shared Values, Class Warfare and Social Responsibility" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, October 5 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 27, 2011 IMPACT Series to Feature Open Invention Network CEO on Sept. 28 Keith Bergelt, CEO of the Open Invention Network, will discuss "Changes in the Innovation Landscape in an Open Source World" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, September 28 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 23, 2011 Home Depot Latest Corporate Affiliate of Denning Technology & Management Program The Home Depot recently became the eighth corporate affiliate of Georgia Tech's Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more September 22, 2011 Technology & Management Students Win Electric Vehicle Case Competition Each day, many students cross the Fifth Street Bridge not thinking much of the downtown connector that exhales exhaust below; but a few are working to electrify the cars that pass beneath. Read more September 21, 2011 Profile: Career Services Helped Executive MBA Student Mark Stewart Advance For Mark Stewart, the career services offered by Georgia Tech College of Management proved instrumental in his landing a new job as director of investments for Batson-Cook Development Company during his studies in the Executive MBA in Management of Technology (EMBA-MOT) program. Read more September 21, 2011 Profile: Tech Network Helped Evening MBA Student Land Seven Job Offers As a career changer, Georgia Tech’s Evening MBA Program far exceeded Dacia Tarleton’s expectations. “I ended up with seven amazing offers,” she says. Read more September 20, 2011 Children's Healthcare CEO Donna Hyland to Speak Sept. 21 in IMPACT Series Donna W. Hyland, president and CEO of Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, will discuss "Leading for Children" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, September 21 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 15, 2011 U.S. News Ranks College 28th Nationally for Undergraduate Business Georgia Tech College of Management is ranked 28th (17th among public universities) in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings of the nation's top undergraduate business programs. Read more September 13, 2011 Ferst Foundation for Childhood Literacy President to Speak Sept. 14 in IMPACT Series George Israel, president of the Ferst Foundation for Childhood Literacy, will discuss "The Keys to Building Successful Organizations: People, Production, Profit" at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday, September 14 in the IMPACT Speaker Series. Read more September 02, 2011 IMPACT Series Kicks Off Sept. 7 with Diana Rivenburgh Georgia Tech will kick off the Fall 2011 IMPACT Speaker Series on Wednesday Sept. 7 with Diana Rivenburgh, president and CEO of Strategic Imperatives, who will discuss "Creating a Culture of Sustainable Success." Read more September 01, 2011 Georgia Tech Helps Create Bridge to Business for Agnes Scott Women Brittany Norris was torn between attending the private liberal arts school Agnes Scott College and her father's alma mater, Georgia Tech. Ultimately, she chose Agnes Scott, because she felt most comfortable at a small school. But thanks to the Bridge to Business Program, she got to benefit from three weeks of training at Georgia Tech College of Management during summer 2011. Read more August 26, 2011 Technology in Entertainment Panel on Sept. 1 to Feature Ludacris Rapper/actor Christopher "Ludacris" Bridges will moderate a panel discussion on "Technology in Entertainment" on Thurs. Sept. 1 at Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more July 22, 2011 Boeing Company Becomes Corporate Affiliate of Denning Technology & Management Program The Boeing Company is the latest corporation to become a Corporate Affiliate of Georgia Tech's Denning Technology & Management Program. Read more July 22, 2011 Former Head of Cancer Coalition to Join College Faculty Bill Todd, president and CEO of the Georgia Cancer Coalition since 2003, will join the faculty of Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more May 18, 2011 Profile: MBA Alumnus Matt Moulthrop's Art Makes It into Smithsonian Next year, Matt Moulthrop (MBA 2004) will have his turned-wood vessels join those of his father and grandfather in the permanent art collection of the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington, D.C. Read more May 17, 2011 Academic Advisor Raziya Chapman Retiring after 32 Years Well known to many undergraduate students through the years, academic advisor Raziya Chapman is retiring on June 1 after 32 years of service to Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more May 16, 2011 Study: Perceived Internal Threats Can Hurt Effectiveness of Account Teams While account teams often serve as the critical link between a firm and its most important business-to-business customers, the effectiveness of these teams can be impeded by perceived threats from within, according to a new study. Read more May 12, 2011 Profile: Global Executive MBA Helped Bethany Miller Advance in Air Force Reserve, Industry Global Executive MBA Helped Bethany Miller Advance in Air Force Reserve Read more May 12, 2011 Profile: Tech Network Helped Outstanding Alumnus Honoree Fred Carlson Build Business Fred Carlson, who received the 2011 Outstanding Young Alumnus Award from the Georgia Tech Alumni Association, understands the importance of a strong professional network. In fact, he credits his many Georgia Tech connections with contributing to his success as an entrepreneur. Read more May 01, 2011 Annual MBA Golf Classic Brings Together Students, Alumni Leaders Georgia Tech College of Management's second annual MBA Golf Classic brought together students and alumni who competed April 23 at East Lake Golf Club. Read more April 14, 2011 College of Management Honors Excellent Faculty, Students and Staff | 2011 Georgia Tech College of Management honored faculty, students, and staff who exemplify excellence on April 14 at the College of Management's Third Annual Honors Day. "Our Excellence Awards play a key role in motivating our entire College community to reach greater heights of excellence and in rewarding truly outstanding performance," says College of Management Dean Steve Salbu. Read more April 08, 2011 Student Success Story: John Schneider When John Schneider first heard about Georgia Tech’s International Plan as an entering freshman, he knew it was his ticket to a world of business opportunities. Read more April 07, 2011 April 11 IMPACT Event to Feature "Let's Talk Business Live!" Social Entrepreneurship Panel "Let's Talk Business Live!" radio show host Mitch Schlimer will lead the Monday, April 11 event in Georgia Tech's IMPACT Speaker Series, facilitating a panel discussion on "Social Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurs" for online broadcast. Read more April 05, 2011 TI:GER Program Awarded Grant for Collaboration with German University Georgia Tech's TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program recently won a grant from Georgia Tech's Fund for Innovation in Research and Innovation (GT FIRE) for an international technology commercialization project, to be conducted in collaboration with Ludwig Maximilian University (LMU) of Munich, Germany. Read more March 31, 2011 TI:GER® Team SpherIngenics Places in Competition for Stem Cell Technology TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) team SpherIngenics won third place in the 2011 Georgia Tech Business Plan Competition for its plan to develop a platform microbead technology for the delivery of cell-based therapies that is safer, more efficient and cost effective than current treatments on the market. Read more March 29, 2011 College of Management Faculty, Staff Receive Numerous Honors | 2011 Widely recognized for excellence in teaching and research, faculty members of Georgia Tech College of Management continue to raise the business school's profile through their professional activities and honors. Staff accomplishments have also reflected well on the College. In recent months: Read more March 23, 2011 Profile: Alumnus Mark Mele Rockets to Top in Aerospace/Defense Industry Mark Mele doesn’t have to be a rocket scientist to do his job. But ATK ̶ an aerospace, defense, security, and sporting products company ̶ benefits from the vast business expertise he brings to the launch pad. Read more March 23, 2011 Profile: Global Executive MBA Led to New Opportunities for Khuram Babar At a time when the market was downsizing, earning a Global Executive MBA at Georgia Tech led to a promotion for Khuram Babar. He was named assistant vice president at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta after earning his degree in 2009. Read more March 21, 2011 Business Plan Competition: Strength-building Shirt Most Ready for Market When Patrick Whaley was still a child, he first had the idea for the weighted, muscle-building clothing that would win the Most Fundable Award ($35,000 worth of legal, financial and other services) in Georgia Tech’s 2011 Business Plan Competition (BPC). The finals were held on March 18. Read more March 21, 2011 Urban RePeel Wins Ideas to SERVE Competition for Environmental Concept Urban RePeel won first place in Georgia Tech’s 2011 Ideas to SERVE Competition for its environmentally friendly business concept that would help minimize the amount of municipal food waste going into landfills. Read more March 15, 2011 Attend Finals of Ideas to SERVE Competition on March 16 Six teams with business concepts that could create a better world will compete in the finals of the Ideas to SERVE (Socially and Environmentally Responsible Value Enhancement) Competition on Wednesday March 16 at Georgia Tech College of Management. Read more March 15, 2011 Tech's Full-time and Evening MBA Programs Ranked High by U.S. News Georgia Tech College of Management is ranked 28th (11th among public universities) for full-time MBA programs and 17th for part-time programs in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings. In the latter category, the College’s Evening MBA program climbed seven spots over last year (up from 24th). Read more February 22, 2011 Dare to Care: Participate in the Ideas to SERVE Competition Do you have an idea for a product or service that addresses a community or social issue, or helps preserve the environment? If so, the Ideas to SERVE (I2S) Competition is for you Read more February 21, 2011 Georgia Tech's CIBER Honored by National Association for Chinese-Americans The National Association for Chinese-Americans (NACA) recently recognized Georgia Tech's Center for International Education and Business Research (GT CIBER) at its annual Lunar New Year meeting and banquet. Read more February 11, 2011 Williams Lecture February 16 to Feature The Home Depot's Frank Blake Georgia Tech's third annual Thomas R. Williams Distinguished Lecture on February 16 will feature "A Conversation with Frank Blake." Read more February 09, 2011 TI:GER® Team Secure InfoShare Places in the 2011 Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition Secure InfoShare, a company that evolved in the TI:GER® (Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results) Program, placed third in the 2011 Georgia Bowl® Business Plan Competition on February 5. Secure InfoShare is developing security software in partnership with Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Emory University for use in the electronic medical records market. Read more February 08, 2011 MBA Students Develop Business Plan for Better Way to Diagnose Pneumonia Researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology have created a new sampling device that could prevent thousands of people worldwide from dying of pneumonia each year. Once the device, called PneumoniaCheck was developed, Taylor Bronikowski (MBA 2010) and other classmates from the College of Management started developing a business plan for it to eventually grow globally. Read more January 27, 2011 College Changing Undergraduate Degree Name to BS in Business Administration Georgia Tech College of Management is transitioning from offering undergraduate students a Bachelor of Science in Management (BSM) to a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) degree. Read more January 24, 2011 Matt and Sharon Price Find Right Time to Give Back to Tech As Matt Price was graduating from Georgia Tech College of Management in 1978, he hoped he'd one day be in the position to give back to the school in a major way. Read more January 21, 2011 Profile: Management Major Cooper Littlejohn Starts Health Insurance Cooperative Though he hasn't even earned his bachelor's degree yet, 20-year-old management major Cooper Littlejohn is already breaking new ground in health care insurance. Read more January 19, 2011 Study Shows Home Bias in Foreign Investment Decisions When investing in foreign stocks, investors show a strong preference toward companies that have a physical presence in their home country, according to a study by a Georgia Tech College of Management researcher. The type of presence in question involves corporate operations or subsidiaries, not just exporting products somewhere. Read more June 01, 2010 PhD Success Story: Jill Perry-Smith While the importance of creativity to business is widely recognized, many organizational processes actually stifle it, says Jill Perry-Smith, PhD 2002. Much of her research has focused on how companies can create environments that are conducive to creativity. Read more May 19, 2010 Student Success Story: Emily Martin Management Education Prepared Emily Martin for Unexpected Opportunity Read more March 18, 2010 Student Success Story: Shilpa Arya Even as a young girl taking dance classes, Shilpa Arya (BSM 2007) was focused on improving efficiency, from easing the entrance of dancers to the stage to how parents filed in for recitals. So she already knew she had a strong interest in process improvement by the time she enrolled as a Management major at Georgia Tech. Read more January 21, 2010 Study: Researchers Document the Commercialization of Biotech By Tracking Scientists When high-performing researchers in the life sciences leave academia, they tend not to jump right into their own entrepreneurial biotech ventures, despite popular belief. Usually they first join large pharmaceutical companies that offer research settings somewhat similar to a university, according to a new study documenting the commercialization of biotechnology by tracking scientists’ publication activity. Read more September 01, 2009 PhD Success Story: Janice Carrillo When Janice Carrillo began her master's studies at Georgia Tech College of Management in 1990, she had no idea she'd one day be teaching business classes herself. Read more September 01, 2009 Phd Success Story: Michael Ehrhardt When Michael Ehrhardt was in ninth grade, testing revealed that he was best suited for a career in animal husbandry. Fortunately, college professor wasn't far behind livestock breeding on his list of likely occupations. Read more September 01, 2009 Student Success Story: Brandi Herringdine Within a month of starting her Co-op job at Wandering WiFi in early 2007, management major Brandi Herringdine was running the whole marketing department for the wireless technology startup. Her supervisor, the company’s only other marketing person at the time, had left for another job. Read more September 01, 2009 Student Success Story: Chinedu Ezeamuzie Unlike a lot of entering freshmen, Chinedu Ezeamuzie knew exactly what kind of career path he wanted to follow when he started at Georgia Tech. Read more March 01, 2009 Phd Success Story: Drew Hess Drew Hess believes his endless curiosity, which he considers crucial for any PhD student, was stifled during his five-year career in the rigid world of banking. Read more September 01, 2008 Student Success Story: Colleen Gootee Supervising workers who are many years older than she is felt a little strange at first for Colleen Gootee, 22, who graduated from Georgia Tech with a BS in management in spring 2008. Read more August 01, 2007 Student Success Story: Courtney Necessary Like a lot of college students, Courtney Necessary often has trouble dragging herself out of bed in the morning – but not because she keeps hitting the snooze button. She needs that extra 10 minutes because of the tremendous toll ballet dancing takes on her body. Read more November 01, 2006 Student Success Story: Bryan Grant Bryan Grant, BSM '06, recently launched his career at NASA, landing a permanent position at Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston, Texas, thanks to his participation in Georgia Tech's Cooperative Education Program. Read more More Featured Events Jun 07 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Executive MBA Webinar Info Session Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech Scheller's Executive MBA program. Jun 08 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Evening MBA Admissions Tips Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about the admissions process for Georgia Tech's most flexible MBA format, our Evening MBA program. An admissions officer will provide an overview of the admissions process and tips to help you prepare your application. Jun 08 1:00 pm-2:00 pm Business Analytics Graduate Certificate Info Session Join us for an information session about the online Business Analytics Certificate at the Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business. Jun 09 12:00 pm-1:00 pm Full-time MBA Program Overview Webinar Attend this webinar to learn more about Georgia Tech's top-ranked Full-time MBA program and advancing your career.See all events Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures