Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Behind The Book From/to CLEAR Filter Results Policy Topics Advocacy & Social Movements (4) Business & Regulation (1) Cities & Communities (3) Decision Making & Negotiation (1) Democracy & Governance (8) Development & Economic Growth (2) Education, Training & Labor (2) Environment & Energy (3) Fairness & Justice (4) Gender, Race & Identity (2) Globalization (4) Health (1) Human Rights (4) International Relations & Security (4) Media (1) Politics (2) Poverty, Inequality & Opportunity (2) Public Finance (1) Public Leadership & Management (4) Science, Technology & Data (4) Social Innovation & Philanthropy (2) Social Policy (3) Geographic Regions North America (4) East Asia & Pacific (2) Africa (1) Eurasia (1) Middle East (1) You are here Home Behind The Book Featured Behind the Books Dara Kay Cohen & Danielle F. Jung's "Lynching and Local Justice" Collective vigilantism is a global phenomenon. Based on original survey and focus group data collected during fieldwork in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and Khayelitsha, South Africa, coauthors Dara Kay Cohen of Harvard Kennedy School and Danielle F. Jung of Emory University suggest that curbing collective vigilantism hinges on ensuring that state governments can provide for the basic needs of their populations. See what goes on Behind the Book Behind the Book is a video series that gives viewers a behind-the-scenes look into the research and insights showcased in books authored by HKS faculty. Contact Alessandra Seiter, Community Engagement Librarian, with inquiries. Erica Chenoweth's "Civil Resistance: What Everyone Needs to Know" Civil resistance has emerged as a mainstay of the many social movements active around the world, and Erica Chenoweth's new book guides readers through its theory and practice. Dara Kay Cohen & Danielle F. Jung’s “Lynching and Local Justice” Collective vigilantism is a global phenomenon. Based on original survey and focus group data collected during fieldwork in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and Khayelitsha, South Africa, coauthors Cohen and Jung suggest that curbing collective vigilantism hinges on ensuring that state governments can provide for the basic needs of their populations. Erica Chenoweth's "Civil Resistance: What Everyone Needs to Know" Civil resistance has emerged as a mainstay of the many social movements active around the world, and Erica Chenoweth's new book guides readers through its theory and practice. Robert Livingston's "The Conversation" Robert Livingston provides readers with the tools and knowledge they need to confront one of the central issues of our history and present: systemic racism. Mathias Risse's "On Trade Justice" How should society think about trade? Mathias Risse synthesizes this complex network of human activity into a philosophical framework, one that defines right from wrong, justice from injustice, and success from failure. Alex Keyssar's "Why Do We Still Have the Electoral College?" The system the United States uses to elect its most powerful public official has for decades not only received little public support, but been widely criticized. Alex Keyssar outlines three primary reasons why it's still around. Tony Saich's "Finding Allies and Making Revolution" The Chinese Communist Party is profoundly influential both inside and outside China's borders. But few know of its early history, and until recently, the most prominent narrative of its origins came from the Party itself. The recent release of two collections of documents reveals a more nuanced story than the official narrative. Joseph S. Nye's "Do Morals Matter?" An analytical toolkit from one of the world's leading scholars of international relations on how the American public can effectively assess the morality of presidential foreign policy decisions - past, present, and future. Amb. Wendy Sherman's "Not for the Faint of Heart" "Not for the Faint of Heart" takes us inside the world of international diplomacy, through the lens of one of our most effective negotiators. Ambassador Wendy Sherman shows why good work in her field is so hard to do, and how we can learn to apply core skills of diplomacy to the challenges in our own lives. Maya Sen & Matthew Blackwell's "Deep Roots" A groundbreaking look at the ways institutions of the past continue to sway attitudes of the present, Deep Roots demonstrates - through an historical look at the institution of U.S. slavery - how social beliefs persist long after the formal policies that created those beliefs have been eradicated. Sheila Jasanoff's "Can Science Make Sense of Life?" How far should the capacity to manipulate what life is at the molecular level authorize science to define what life is for? Professor Sheila Jasanoff looks at flash points in law, politics, ethics, and culture to argue that science’s promises of perfectibility have gone too far. Ron Ferguson & Tatsha Robertson's "The Formula" This book unveils how parenting helped shape some of the most fascinating people you will ever encounter, by doing things that almost any parent can do. You don’t have to be wealthy or influential to ensure your child reaches their greatest potential. What you do need is commitment―and the strategies outlined in this book. Paul Tucker's "Unelected Power" Central bankers have emerged from the financial crisis as the third great pillar of unelected power alongside the judiciary and the military. Unelected Power lays out the principles needed to ensure that central bankers, technocrats, regulators, and other agents of the administrative state remain stewards of the common good and do not become overmighty citizens. Jacqueline Bhabha's "Can We Solve the Migration Crisis?" In this compelling essay, renowned human rights lawyer and scholar Jacqueline Bhabha explains why forced migration demands compassion, generosity and a more vigorous acknowledgement of our shared dependence on human mobility as a key element of global collaboration. Stephen Goldsmith's "A New City O/S: The Power of Open, Collaborative, and Distributed Governance" A New City O/S: The Power of Open, Collaborative, and Distributed Governance sets out transformative operational reforms that will produce better public services and more citizen trust by taking advantage of advances that have been made in analytics, social engagement, and big data. Odd Arne Westad's "The Cold War: A World History" The Cold War offers a new perspective on a century when great power rivalry and ideological battle transformed every corner of our globe. The Cold War may have begun on the perimeters of Europe, but it had its deepest reverberations in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, where nearly every community had to choose sides. These choices continue to define economies and regimes across the world. Jorrit De Jong's "Dealing with Dysfunction: Innovative Problem Solving in the Public Sector" HKS Lecturer, Jorrit De Jong, examines the roots of systemic bureaucratic dysfunction and presents a novel approach to solving it. Venkatesh Narayanamurti's "Cycles of Invention and Discovery: Rethinking the Endless Frontier" HKS Professor Venkatesh Narayanamurti explains how separating science into “Basic” and “Applied” categories limits research and hinders policy. Robert N. Stavins' "Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings" HKS Professor Stavins describes his new book, "Economics of the Environment: Selected Readings” for the HKS Library Virtual Book Tour. This book was published by W.W. Norton & Company in 2012. Robert N. Stavins' "Economics of Climate Change & Environmental Policy" The 26 essays in this book were written by HKS Professor Stavins and his co-authors over the period 2000–2011 and are collected in this book for the first time. Jeffrey Seglin's "The Simple Art of Business Etiquette: How to Rise to the Top by Playing Nice" HKS Lecturer & ethics columnist Jeffrey L. Seglin provides practical tips for succeeding professionally by using manners in the workplace. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/