Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Social Impact Fellows Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » Social Impact Fellows » Social Impact Fellows Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Social Impact Fellows About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships The Institute for Leadership and Social Impact is partnering with nonprofit and community organizations in Atlanta by connecting them with GT students with a passion for social impact by facilitating supported internship opportunities. The fellowship projects are driven by our community partners' needs and opportunities. The ILSI then promotes the projects to our Georgia Tech students, and partners select the candidate that best suits their needs. The purpose of the program is to create meaningful connections for co-learning. Typical projects are semester-long (fall, spring, or summer). ILSI commits to long-term relationships with our partner organizations (three-four semesters). Our partners to date include the Center for Civic Innovation, Hands On Atlanta, Global Growers Network, Plywood People, and Ubuntu. Please contact Dori Pap (dori.pap@ilsi.gatech.edu) with any questions about the Social Impact Fellows program. Student Reflections "Being an intern with Hands On Atlanta was extremely pivotal to my career goals as well as my personal and professional development. I was able to be a part of large projects as well as start my own small ones. I learned an immense amount about the behind the scenes of a nonprofit, working virtually, and the importance of team culture. The people at Hands On Atlanta inspired me to pursue a career that serves mission-backed organizations while empowering the community around you. I could not be more thankful for the opportunity to be an ISLI fellow and intern for Hands on Atlanta!" Jenn Thorpe BA '22 "The ILSI social impact fellowship provided me the opportunity to work on the Development Team at Hands On Atlanta. During my time with Hands On Atlanta, I got to work alongside passionate change-makers committed to making Atlanta a more equitable city. I learned about the importance of mobilizing volunteers to meet the needs of nonprofit organizations, was inspired by the generosity of supporters through managing incoming payments and donations, and grew a greater passion for serving my community." Lyle Hoge BA '21 Partner Testimonials "Being a small nonprofit, our team is grateful for the ISLI Social Impact Fellows program, which enables us to engage talented Georgia Tech students in internships, while also allowing interns the opportunity to be compensated for their incredible work and valuable time." Ashley Collier, Hands On Atlanta "As a Social Impact Fellow, Lucy’s work on assessing Ubuntu’s communications outreach strategies was outstanding. The findings and suggestions from the survey she designed and conducted will enable Ubuntu to reach the target communities effectively and ultimately improve our outreach." - Mary Wilson, Ubuntu United Nation Fellows In partnership with UN-based Global Action to Prevent War and Armed Conflict (GAPW) ILSI provides students the opportunity to gain an intimate insight into how the United Nations works. As a part of our inaugural collaboration Madelyne Hamblett (BA '21) and Brady Sanders (CHEM '22) completed a 10-week fellowship with GAPW this summer. Read Brady's Reflection Here UN Fellowships are for the summer semesters only. The next round of applications will open in April 2022. How to Apply for Fellowships Interested students can apply to open fellowships by directly emailing the contact person listed for that opportunity. If selected by the organization, the organization will recommend the student as a Social Impact Fellow. ILSI will then coordinate with the partner for information regarding the length of the engagement and hours per week required. The fellowship stipend will depend on GT wide pay rates for student work. Once your internship has begun, ILSI will check-in for progress reports and reviews. Open Fellowships Camp Twin Lakes Reflections Hands On Atlanta Fall 2020 Plywood People Summer 2021 UN Fellowship Summer 2021 Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures