Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Study Abroad Studying abroad is a great educational and personal experience for those who participate. Some of the costs of these programs can be paid with your eligible financial aid funding. At CSUF there are many programs that students can participate in across the globe. You can find more details about this from the Study Abroad Office in International Programs. If you already know the study abroad program you are interested in you can see below what types of financial aid you may be eligible to receive while participating in that program. FINANCIAL AID ELIGIBILITY FOR SPECIFIC STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS Chancellor's Office Students typically participate in this program for an entire academic year. Types of Aid Available Are: Federal State CSUF Exchange Students participate on a semester-by-semester basis. Types of Aid Available Are: Federal State CSUF HSS Summer Students typically participate in during the summer semester. Types of Aid Available Are: Federal State London Semester Students typically participate in spring semester only. Types of Aid Available Are: Federal State Non-CSUF Students may participate for a semester, or for an academic year. Types of Aid Available Are: Federal FAQs regarding FINANCIAL AID and STUDY ABROAD Q: How does the financial aid process work with study abroad? A: The Study Abroad Coordinator collaborates with the Office of Financial Aid’s (OFA) Special Programs Counselor by sending a list of participants to the OFA along with estimates of the program costs. The Special Programs Counselor will review these costs, update students’ budgets with allowable educational expenses, and make any necessary adjustments to the student’s financial aid award. The student would be notified via campus email of any changes to their award. Financial Aid is typically not available during Summer and Winter Session . Q: How will my financial aid award change if I study abroad? A: It depends. For a majority of students, their financial aid award will not change. Examples of how your award may change are provided below: For students participating in a Non-CSUF study abroad program, only federal aid is applicable towards study abroad costs (ex., Federal Pell Grant & Federal Direct Loan, etc.). For students participating in a Chancellor’s Office – OR – a CSUF study abroad program, both state and federal aid is applicable towards study abroad costs (ex., State University Grant, Cal Grant, Federal Pell Grant, & Federal Direct Loan, etc.). P lease note : if your program costs are lower than the standard budget for attending CSUF during the semester, your financial aid eligibility and award may be reduced. In most cases, the program costs are higher than the standard budget and so your financial aid eligibility may potentially increase. Increased financial aid eligibility typically allows for you to borrow more loan funds . It does not usually increase your eligibility for grants. Q: When will my financial aid pay out? Who will you send it to? A: Based on federal regulations, if your study abroad program starts before CSUF’s semester start date, your disbursement date will remain the same as the first disbursement for CSUF. If your study abroad program starts after the CSUF semester start date, your disbursement date will be 10 days prior to the start of your program abroad If you are participating in a Chancellor’s Office – OR – a CSUF program, your funds will normally be applied toward your tuition and fees. If your financial aid award exceeds the amount of your tuition and fees, the remaining funds would be sent to you via direct deposit or paper check. If you are participating in a Non-CSUF program, your financial aid funds will be sent to you via direct deposit or paper check. Your program fees would not be deducted prior to disbursement, which means that you will be responsible for using the funds to pay for your program fees and educational expenses while abroad. Q: What if I need more money to pay for study abroad program costs? A: If your accepted financial aid award is not sufficient to cover your program and you are unable to pay out-of-pocket, you may consider borrowing outside alternative loans. You can apply for an alternative private loan through the lending institution/bank of your choice. If you are a dependent undergraduate, your parents may apply for a Federal PLUS loan on your behalf. If you are a graduate student, you may consider applying for a Federal Graduate PLUS loan. Learn more about, including how to apply for, a Parent PLUS or Grad PLUS loan. Q: How long can I study abroad and continue to receive financial aid? A: There are limits to how many semesters you may use financial aid for study abroad purposes. If you anticipate studying abroad for an extended period (more than 1 year total), please contact The Office of Financial aid at (657)-278-3125 so your eligibility can be evaluated. Still have more questions? Additional questions about how financial aid can be used for study abroad can be directed to: Location: GH-146 Phone: 657-278-3125 For more information about CSUF Study Abroad Programs click here . This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.