COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biological Sciences, Minor MinorBiological Sciences All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Biological Sciences A minor in biological sciences gives you a fundamental knowledge of biology and a basic knowledge of chemistry, in addition to exploring more in-depth courses based on your interests. The minor is a good complement for many science-related majors. Learn how biological sciences is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application WSU's biological field station on the Ninnescah River features 330 acres of native prairie, wetlands and woodland. Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To take courses in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Biology major gets up close to Kansas amphibians and reptiles Biological Sciences students can get up close and personal with nature. Hannah Hoetmer has helped study amphibians and reptiles of the Youngmeyer Ranch, assisted with multiple projects in the Biodiversity Lab that look at the insect diversity across Kansas, and held several paid positions as a technician studying plants in the Prairie Community Ecology Lab. She is working on a large project that will try to establish whether or not high quality photographs can be used with an animal version of facial-recognition technology to look at the differences in the intersections between the scales on the heads of lizards and snakes to identify individuals. Curriculum To complete the minor, you'll take between 15 and 17 credit hours, including two required courses: General Biology I and II. And you'll tailor the remaining courses to fit your interests. View the curriculum Careers Graduates of the biological sciences program are frequently employed as technicians in labs involved in basic biological research or applied research. They work in fields such as the physical, engineering and life sciences, education, pharmaceutical manufacturing and scientific consulting. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Biological Sciences Chemistry Physics 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©