Skip to main content Iowa State University Office of Admissions Menu Toggle Search Visit Apply My Account Main navigation Admissions Admissions Freshman Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Graduate Admissions Next Steps / Timeline Financial Aid Request info Contact Us Related Links Nontraditional Nondegree Veterinary Medicine Military Why ISU Academics Academics Academic Programs Colleges Transfer Credit Credit by Exam Orientation Honors Program Learning Communities Apply Visit Related Links Course Equivalency Guides Transfer Plans TRANSIT Supplementary Course List Admissions Partnership Program Destination Iowa State Cost + Aid Campus Living Campus Living Housing ISU Dining Diversity and Inclusion International Students and Scholars Clubs and Organizations Recreation Services Student Health Athletics Apply Visit Related Links Student Leaders Sorority and Fraternity Entertainment Traditions Distinguished Alumni Why ISU Visit Application Transfer Student Scholarships Financing Cost of Attendance FAFSA Freshman Awards Transfer Awards International Students OneApp Student Employment Student Financial Success National Scholars We offer many special scholarship awards for transfer students like you. Iowa State Community College Transfer Scholarship $500-$2,000 (one-time award) The Iowa State Community College Transfer Scholarship gives preference to students who are enrolled at a community college and will transfer to Iowa State for the upcoming semester. Students must submit the transfer application and be offered admission. This competitive scholarship requires 45 completed transferable academic semester college credits with at least a 3.00 cumulative academic grade point average (remedial or career/technical credit does not contribute to the academic GPA). It is available to residents and nonresidents. Students must also complete the FAFSA and demonstrate financial need. This scholarship can be combined with Phi Theta Kappa Scholarships. Requirements: Complete 45 transferable semester credits Attain a minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA on a 4.00 scale Enroll full-time at Iowa State immediately following a two-year community college Submit the FAFSA by March 1, and demonstrate financial need Be offered admission by March 1 Submit the OneApp scholarship application by March 10 Non-resident Scholarships Transfer Achievement Award (TAA): $19,500 ($6,500/year for up to 3 years*) The Transfer Achievement Award is automatically awarded to all nonresidents who have been offered admission to Iowa State for the fall or spring semester and who have completed 30 transferable academic college semester credits with a minimum 3.25 cumulative transferable academic grade point average. (Remedial or career/technical credit does not contribute to the academic GPA.) This scholarship can be combined with Phi Theta Kappa Scholarships, but it cannot be stacked with the Transfer Success Award. Requirements: Complete a minimum of 30 transferable academic semester credits Attain a minimum 3.25 cumulative transfer GPA on a 4.00 scale Enroll full-time at Iowa State immediately following enrollment at a previous higher education institution Preference is given to students who apply by June 1, 2022 for the upcoming fall semester Must be assessed nonresident tuition Must be pursuing the first Bachelor's degree; students who have already earned an undergraduate degree are not eligible. Transfer Success Award: $9,000 ($3,000/year for up to 3 years*) The Transfer Success Award is automatically awarded to all nonresident transfer students who have been offered admission to Iowa State for the fall or spring semester and who have completed transferable academic college credits with a minimum 3.00 cumulative transferable academic grade point average. (Remedial or career/technical credit does not contribute to the academic GPA.) This scholarship can be combined with Phi Theta Kappa Scholarship, but it cannot be stacked with the Transfer Achievement Award. Requirements: Attain a minimum 3.00 cumulative transfer GPA on a 4.00 scale Enroll full-time at Iowa State following enrollment at a previous higher education institution Preference is given to students who apply by June 1, 2022 for the upcoming fall semester Must be assessed nonresident tuition Must be pursuing the first Bachelor’s degree; students who have already earned an undergraduate degree are not eligible. Transfer Expedition Award The Transfer Expedition Award can be stacked with the Transfer Achievement Award or Transfer Success Award. View more information. Generations Award: $4,500 ($1,500/year for up to 3 years)* The Generations Award is awarded to students who have been offered admission to Iowa State as non-resident transfer students for the fall or spring semesters and whose parents, step-parents, legal guardians, grandparents, or great-grandparents are Iowa State graduates. A graduate is defined as any person who has been awarded a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree from Iowa State. In order to be considered for this scholarship, students must provide information so the graduation of the parent, step-parent, legal guardian, grandparent, or great-grandparent may be verified. Students may complete the scholarship application form online. * To renew the Generations Award, the Transfer Achievement Award, and the Transfer Success Award, the student must remain continuously enrolled at Iowa State University on a full-time basis as an out-of-state resident in good academic standing with a minimum of 12 credits per semester, be assessed nonresident tuition, and maintain a minimum 2.00 cumulative grade point average. This award is not available for the summer term. Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Scholarships PTK Member Scholarship: $2,000 ($1,000/year for up to 2 years**) The Phi Theta Kappa (PTK) Member Scholarship is a competitive award offered to 50 PTK members who are offered admission to Iowa State University as a transfer student in the fall semester. This scholarship can be combined with the PTK All-State Academic Team Award. Requirements: Must be a current member of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society Complete 45 transferable semester hours at a community college Attain a minimum 3.50 cumulative transferable GPA on a 4.00 scale Enroll full-time at Iowa State immediately following a two-year community college Be offered admission by March 1 Submit OneApp scholarship application by March 10 PTK All-State Academic Team Award: $4,000 ($2,000/year for up to 2 years**) The PTK All-State Academic Team Award is awarded in the fall or spring to transfer students who have successfully completed the outlined requirements. This scholarship can be combined with the PTK Member Scholarship. Requirements: Must be a current member of Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society Must be named to the current year's All-State Academic Team by the PTK organization Enroll full-time at Iowa State immediately following a two-year community college Provide proof of All-State academic standing PTK All-USA Academic Team Award: Value of In-State Tuition for a total of 2 years** The PTK All-USA Academic Team Award is awarded in the fall or spring to transfer students who have successfully completed the outlined requirements. This scholarship cannot be combined with the PTK Member Scholarship or the PTK All-State Academic Team Award. Current value is resident tuition set at $8,324 for the 2021-22 academic year. Requirements: Must be a current member of Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society Must be named to the current year's All-USA Academic Team or the Coca-Cola All-State Team by the PTK organization Enroll full-time at Iowa State immediately following a two-year community college Submit official notification letter or certificate of All-USA Academic Team/Coca-Cola standing to admissions@iastate.edu ** To renew the Phi Theta Kappa Scholarships, the student must remain continuously enrolled at Iowa State University on a full-time basis and in good academic standing with a minimum of 12 credits per semester and maintain a minimum 3.00 cumulative grade point average. These awards are not available for the summer term. Undergraduate Scholarship Resources Iowa State OneApp Scholarship Portal OneApp deadlines will vary depending upon the scholarship or opportunity, so we encourage students to log in to OneApp early and often to ensure deadlines are met. Once submitted, students can still access and revise their applications until the scholarship close date. Scholarship selection committees will use the information available in the system (e.g., data from student records and/or information provided on the General Application, Conditional Application, and any Recommended Opportunities) as of when the committee begins their review of applications. Iowa State University Office of Admissions Contact Office of Admissions Enrollment Services Center Ames, IA 50011 Call or text: 515-294-5836 Soults Family Visitors Center 2229 Lincoln Way Ames, IA 50014 Quick Links New Student Programs Counselor Directory Chat with students and staff Request Information Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Analytics Disclaimer Loading...