Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Mindfulness Center at Brown Home Research Mindfulness Training Programs Collaboratives News and Ideas People Site Navigation Home Research Mindfulness Training MBSR Teacher Recognition Programs Collaboratives Global Mindfulness Collaborative International Mindfulness Integrity Network Contemplative Studies Partnership News and Ideas People Learn Mindfulness. Teach Mindfulness. Make a Difference. The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx Mar 30, 2022 MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) Class Application is Open Questions: [email protected] The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx The Mindfulness Center at Brown University is launching the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx. This program is for participants underrepresented by race and ethnicity in the mindfulness field. The first phase of this program is open to those who live in the United States and who identify as Black, Indigenous, and Latino/Latina. The program will be offered entirely online and will be taught by people of color and supported by some of the most experienced teacher trainers in the world and the Mindfulness Center at Brown through research, best practices and pedagogical approaches. We are also seeking diversity within these groups including by age, gender, sexual orientation, socioeconomics, and geographic location and are looking for participants active in their communities and with existing networks they will be able to offer mindfulness programs. Full Scholarships Provided The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx is funded by a generous foundation grant and the School of Public Health, Brown University. Full scholarships are available for participants. Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) Mindfulness Based-Stress Reduction (MBSR) is based on ancient contemplative practices assembled into an 8-week program that is a systematic training in mindfulness meditation employing both formal and informal practices. The experiential program at Brown University taps into the wisdom of indigenous cultures to harness inner resources and cultivate resilience. MBSR has been researched over 40 years and consistently delivers positive outcomes associated with increased self-awareness and emotional and attentional regulation, demonstrating the impact of these ancient practices. In addition, outcomes have included reductions in symptoms for various physical and behavioral health conditions such as anxiety, depression, stress, chronic pain, and hypertension. MBSR Teacher Training at Brown University The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx is an effort to widen the population of teachers and participants who have access to mindfulness training and are involved in research programs. Despite the potential, mindfulness instruction in the West has historically been available to a narrow range of people, and all too often has failed to include and address the needs, life experiences, and priorities of marginalized communities. This program seeks to open opportunities for teacher trainees, participants, and a wider audience to engage with mindfulness practices taught by teachers and with trainees who are all members of underrepresented populations. The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx is an adaptation of the current Brown MBSR Teacher Training Program. Based on changes recommended by Black, Indigenous, and Latino/Latina focus group participants, the program is designed to meet the needs of this group while retaining the equivalent effectiveness and rigorous training. Changes and additions to the program include: adding a cohort mentoring program to provide additional ongoing support to participants throughout the entire training process; modifications to retreat requirements to support greater accessibility; and infusing the program with racial and societal issues ongoing. Currently, we are accepting applications for the MBSR class required as a prerequisite. Applications for the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx will open in August 2022 with full program details available then. Prerequisites The MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx has a prerequisite program of taking an MBSR program. Use the link above to register for the MBSR program to take this prerequisite. Prerequisites for the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx Maintain a personal meditation practice of at least one year (less experience may be considered) Attendance at an 8-week MBSR program. It is important to take this MBSR program before deciding to be an MBSR teacher and before beginning the training so that you make a more informed decision that requires a major commitment and can experience the program fully as a participant. Programs in the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx Level 1 Training - first phase MSBR Foundations MBSR Teacher Advancement Intensive 3 Day Silent Meditation Retreats Cohort Mentoring Program Level 2 Training and Certification - next phases MBSR Curriculum Study Group and Skill Building MBSR Individual Mentoring Ethos of Mindfulness-Based Programs Dialogue and Inquiry for Mindfulness-Based Programs Silent Meditation Retreats Cohort Mentoring Program MBSR Teacher Certification Review Level 1 TIMELINE 2022 Summer and Fall - Take the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx MBSR course as a participant in a class made up of people of color and taught by a teacher of color. Full scholarships provided. August - Applications open for Phase 1 of the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx November - Applications due for the MBSR Teacher Training Program for People Who Identify as Black, Indigenous, and/or Latino/Latina/Latinx December - Applicants notified of application results 2023 February - 3 day weekend meditation retreat (with options for participation) Spring, Summer, Fall - MBSR Foundations courses offered August - 3 day weekend meditation retreat (with options for participation) 2024 January - 3 day weekend meditation retreat (with options for participation) February and March - Teacher Advancement Intensive Level 1 Teacher Training Complete At the completion of Level 1 MBSR Teacher Training, trainees who wish to continue their training will be invited to apply for Level 2. Mindfulness Center at Brown Mindfulness Center at Brown Brown University One Davol Square, Second Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9100 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Sign up for our newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top