Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Training » Accessibility Compliance Training Set Navigation title in component Digital Inclusion Day Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Accessibility Compliance Training New EIT Training Portal Now Live The University of Cincinnati’s new Electronic Accessibility Training Portal in now live in Canvas. If you need access to the training, please submit a request for enrollment. The university’s EIT Accessibility Policy states that all agents of the university, including faculty and staff, who create or contribute to the creation or procurement of websites, software, applications, electronic course content, or the content provided in any of these, must complete Electronic & Information Technology (EIT) Accessibility training. Completing this training not only fulfills a compliance requirement but also provides the UC community with the necessary baseline understanding of creating accessible course materials, websites and other electronic content and systems for persons with disabilities, an act which is critical in the university’s ability to fulfill the mandate of the Americans with Disabilities Act that no qualified individual with a disability shall, by reason of such disability, be excluded from participation in or be denied the benefit of services, programs, or activities of the university. About the EIT Training Portal The accessibility compliance training is delivered through the Electronic Accessibility Training Portal in Canvas. The course includes multiple trainings on topics related to electronic accessibility. New training modules will be added each semester to meet the evolving needs of the UC community. Modules completed in the Training Portal will be tracked and contribute to Accessibility and Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) Compliance Training Requirements. Our aim is to provide the UC community with a range of trainings so that individuals can choose topics that relate to the technology, software, and processes used most frequently. To access the portal, log into Canvas, and select Courses on the left navigation. Select the 2021-2023 EIT Accessibility Training Portal. If you do not see the course listed, select the "All Courses" option at the bottom of the drop down menu, and a list of all of the Canvas courses you are enrolled in will appear. Employees are enrolled in the course based on eligibility of course requirements; if you are not enrolled and would like to be, or believe you should be, please submit a request for enrollment.  For technical assistance with the course, contact the IT@UC help desk. Please direct any questions to the Accessibility Network via email. Frequently Asked Questions Who should take the course? right arrow down arrow As stated in the EIT Accessibility Policy, all agents of the university, including faculty and staff, who create or contribute to the creation or procurement of websites, software, applications, electronic course content, or the content provided in any of these, must complete the EIT Accessibility training course. These agents include: Faculty members who use Canvas or any online systems or materials for teaching and learning  Staff members who create any content or resources for or in Canvas to support faculty  All faculty, staff or students who are web authors, and/or content contributors to a UC or UC-affiliated website, mobile app, or the UC intranet Bearcats Landing Faculty and staff who distribute UC-affiliated communications using systems such as Success Factors or Catalyst or through email distribution methods, like listservs or newsletter software All faculty and staff who create or utilize multi-media content presented through channels like YouTube, or used for university events or in trainings Faculty and staff who are involved in the selection, purchasing, and/or management of third party software or systems, either centrally or within units IT Staff (central and distributed) who support implementation of third party systems or who develop or create apps or other software for use at UC If you have questions about the requirements for this course, please contact the university’s EIT Accessibility Coordinator. Does an accessibility workshop I completed count towards my compliance training? right arrow down arrow An upcoming feature includes the option to receive credit that fulfills annual compliance training requirements when you attend select workshops offered by CET&L and the Accessibility Network. This will be deployed toward the end of 2021. How can I verify that I have completed the training? right arrow down arrow If you want to check to see if you have completed the training, log into Canvas, and select the 2021-2023 EIT Accessibility Training Portal course. Select Grades on the left navigation menu.  If you have completed the course you will have earned a total of 150 points.  If you do not have a total of 150 points in the Grades section of Canvas, you have not completed the course, and need to return to the Modules tab in the navigation to complete the Knowledge Checks for the Modules you have reviewed.  The easiest way to keep a record of your course completion is to take a screenshot of your grades. Remember that you may be asked to verify your course completion before being granted to some campus systems. What If the course is not listed in Canvas? right arrow down arrow If the course doesn't appear in Canvas, you may need to request to be enrolled. Please submit a request for enrollment. If I scored less than 100% on a quiz, how can I retake it? right arrow down arrow After completing the quiz, scroll down and note any incorrect answers. To take the quiz again, navigate to the top of the quiz, and select the "Take Quiz Again" button. You must answer all questions correctly to get credit for the training course. Who do I contact if I'm having issues with Canvas? right arrow down arrow If you are having technical issues, contact the IT@UC help desk. When is the deadline for completing the course? right arrow down arrow The deadline to complete the training isn't until June of 2023. However, it is very important to note that your access to several systems across campus is tied to your completion of the course and you could lose access to systems like AEM or Canvas if you delay in completing the training. We recommend completing as soon as you are able to avoid any unnecessary delays. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top