Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Career Center Main Navigation Students Show Extended Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resumes & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Career & Major Exploration Graduate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Alumni Show Extended Alumni Career Services Help a Titan Hire a Titan Recruiters Show Extended Post Positions On Titan Connection Recruiting Calendar On-Campus Interviewing (OCI) Connect With Students Employer Partnerships Learn About Our Diverse Students Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Faculty & Staff Show Extended Meet your Career Specialist Career Center Commercial (4 minutes) Request a Workshop Get a Titan Connection Account Post a Position Faculty Development Certificate Workshops & Info Sessions Career Fairs & Expos Online Career Guide Reports Schedule Appointment About Us Blog Virtual Career Center Titan Connection: Jobs & Internships Workshops & Information Sessions Networking Career Fairs & Expos Resume & Cover Letters Interviewing Titan Takeover: Job Shadow Program Career & Major Exploration Gradudate & Professional School College Specific Resources Online Recorded Webinars I Am First Titan Career Ambassadors Resources for Diverse Populations Business Career Services Parker Dewey: Micro-Internships Titan Takeover Career Exploration Program Testimonial <p>Your browser does not support frames.</p> Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program The Spring Hybrid version of the Job Shadow Program will take place during the month of April on an agreed upon date/time between participant and host. Titan Takeover will take place in hybrid format, meaning some hosts will be hosting in-person, others will be hosting virtually, and some are open to either format. The purpose of the Titan Takeover: Career Education Program is to provide students with an opportunity to make a more informed decision regarding a career path that best fits their interests, passion, traits, and skills. The program will allow students to observe “what a day in the life of…” would look like in addition to receiving information and advice from career professionals. TIMELINE Application period: Thursday, January 27, 2022 - Friday, February 18th 2022 Students are notified of acceptance to Titan Takeover: Career Exploration Program During the week of March 1st How to Participate Check out the 2022 Titan Takeover Host List of employers participating in the Titan Takeover this April. Fill out the Hybrid Spring 2022 Titan Takeover Student Application. Attend the Titan Take Over Orientation. There will be multiple sessions for the orientation All sessions will be IN-PERSON in the Career Center (LH 210G) Students must participate in order to receive their assigned host's contact information. More information will be provided upon acceptance to the program. Hear it from the Students “The Titan Takeover program was such a great learning experience! I was matched with several professionals in my same career path that I was able to network with. The shadowing experience has given me an opportunity to see a day in the life of a corporate office. It was insightful and inspiring, and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is curious to see the real life work environment.” “Titan Takeover was a valuable experience. Rather than learning in a classroom, you get to obtain real world experience from real professionals who were in the same position as you. It is very relatable and gives a much needed boost of confidence to see where you can be in a matter of a few years.” “This experience opened my eyes to a possibility outside of what I thought I should do with my degree after I graduate, allowing me to understand that there are other possibilities out there that I should explore.” “I had a great time doing the Titan Takeover: Job Shadow Program. This opportunity helped me solidify what career path I want to take and what I feel will be a good match for me and my skills. This was a great opportunity and I would recommend every student to do it.” “Participating in Titan Takeover allowed me to view the workforce differently. Not only did I learn about the operations but I was able to understand their company culture. I also loved being able to apply what I learned in the classroom and having professional conversations with management.” Digital copies of the Titan Takeover Reports can be downloaded by selecting the following report years: Titan Takeover Report 2019 Titan Takeover Report 2018 Titan Takeover Report 2017 Titan Takeover Report 2016 SPRING BREAK 2019 PARTICIPATING EMPLOYERS This site is maintained by Career Center. Last Published 4/22/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact careercenter@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.