Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Hospitality Sections Hospitality Degrees Hospitality Faculty Hospitality News Leading the Advancement of the Hospitality, Tourism and Travel Sectors Fill out the form below and we'll email you more information about UCF's online Hospitality programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Destination Marketing and ManagementEvent Leadership, MSEvent ManagementFinancial Management for the Hospitality and Tourism IndustryHospitality and Tourism Management, MSHospitality and Tourism TechnologiesHospitality Management, BSLeadership and Strategy in Hospitality and TourismLodging and Restaurant Management, BSSenior Living Management, BSTravel Technology and Analytics, MS Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Search for a Degree Popular Online Programs Lodging and Restaurant Management, BS Hospitality Management, BS Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Online Hospitality Degrees Think of the best trip you’ve ever been on. From the transportation used to the hotel stay to dining out at restaurants, many factors contributed to the memories you made. Learn how to create those same unforgettable experiences for others with a hospitality degree from UCF Online. Positioned to understand Florida tourism, American tourism, and international tourism, UCF offers a unique perspective to earning a hospitality degree. Whether you are studying event management, entertainment management, tourism or travel, there is no better place to advance your hospitality skills and knowledge than by studying at the university located in the No. 1 tourist destination in America. And with courses taught by our diverse and experienced faculty, you’ll gain the exposure you need to excel your hospitality career by learning directly from leaders within the industry. The Future of Hospitality With a number of different areas to break into, there’s a world of opportunity in hospitality. This $20 billion industry offers exceptional growth potential with some of the top positions in event planning, destination marketing and food service management — each projected to grow faster than many other industries over the next decade. As the industry evolves over time, the curriculum students learn in the classroom must keep up to stay relevant. Currently, UCF Online hospitality programs focus on the latest trends and techniques, from demographics to technological advancements to providing exceptional guest service. 3.2% Annual Growth 3,338 Total Hospitality Businesses $20 Billion Industry $50,000 Median Salary Hospitality Management Position According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Explore UCF Online Hospitality Degrees Online Bachelor’s Degrees Hospitality Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Restaurant & Foodservice Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Senior Living Management, BS Online Bachelor’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Online Master’s Degrees Event Leadership, MS Online Master’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Online Master’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Travel Technology and Analytics, MS Online Master’s from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Online Graduate Certificates Destination Marketing and Management Online Certificatesfrom the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Event Management Online Certificatesfrom the Rosen College of Hospitality Management Hospitality and Tourism Technologies Online Certificatesfrom the Rosen College of Hospitality Management The Rosen College online programs have been choreographed to provide students round-the-clock access, convenience and quality education in a comfortable and innovative learning environment.” Manuel Rivera Associate Dean Hospitality and Tourism Management Education through UCF Online UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management provides online degrees that help students take their career aspirations to the next level. In fact, the online master’s in hospitality management ranked No. 1 in the nation by bestcolleges.com. Whether you are just getting started, or have been working in the industry for years, advance your skills by learning from our world-renowned faculty. From food and beverages to travel, lodging and recreation, gain the skills to help you level up in your professional development. Earning your hospitality degree through UCF Online prepares you to lead the way in this exciting industry. So, what do you need to know before you get started? Download Brochure Hospitality and Tourism Options UCF offers online bachelor’s, master’s and graduate certificates that cover varying aspects of the hospitality and tourism industry. If you are earning your bachelor’s degree and ready to transfer into an undergraduate program, the Hospitality Management, BS is a great way to begin your journey. If you would like to gain additional career traction but aren’t ready to commit to a two-year graduate-level program, you can focus on the skill set of Event Management with our online graduate certificate. Take time to explore the degree options and choose the program that works best for you. Convenience and Affordability Depending on the degree level and the program you choose, completing your degree through UCF Online can take as little as one to two years. For example, the Destination Marketing and Management Graduate Certificate can be completed in one year. Professionals who are working in the field and interested in becoming a leader for their organization can stand out with the Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS, which can be completed in two years. UCF Online offers the access and convenience that allows you to earn your degree on your schedule. Earning an online degree in hospitality doesn’t mean you have to sacrifice quality for affordability. UCF Online offers significant cost savings to students by waiving some campus-based fees. For example, out-of-state undergraduate students can save $365.03 per credit hour — a substantial 48 percent discount. Visit the tuition, fees and scholarships pages for more information. Hospitality Faculty Dr. Diego Bufquin Assistant Professor Dr. Alan Fyall Associate Dean Academic Affairs Dr. Kevin Murphy Professor Dr. Wei Wei Assistant Professor Dr. Deborah Breiter Professor Emerita Dr. Cynthia Mejia Interim Chair, Dept. of Foodservice & Lodging Management; Associate Professor Dr. Denver Severt Associate Professor Dr. Robin Back Assistant Professor Dr. Carissa Baker Assistant Professor Dr. Kayode D. Aleshinloye Assistant Professor Dr. Fevzi Okumus Professor Dr. Asli D.A. Tasci Associate Professor Sean Bliznik, PhD Assistant Professor Latest Hospitality News UCF’s Alan Fyall Advises the Press on “Revenge Travel” Trends and Safety Tips Event Planning - Tips, Tools and Resources for Security and Success Senior Living Management: The Rewards of Being a Leader in Senior Care Comic Conventions: Their Popularity and Impact Food Tourism: The Impact of Food TV Shows on Local Industries Top 10 Hospitality Careers: Job Descriptions and Salary Ranges VR Theme Parks: Revolutionizing Amusement Hospitality by Enhancing Visitor Experience Hospitality Technology: Trends and Developments Shaping the Industry Sustainable Event Management: Definition, Examples and Resources Florida Tourism’s Impact on Local Businesses: History, Statistics & Resources What Does Hospitality Mean to You and How Can You Tell If It’s the Right Career Choice? View more hospitality stories Connect with a Coach × Fill out the form below and one of our success coaches will contact you about the online Engineering programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Destination Marketing and ManagementEvent Leadership, MSEvent ManagementFinancial Management for the Hospitality and Tourism IndustryHospitality and Tourism Management, MSHospitality and Tourism TechnologiesHospitality Management, BSLeadership and Strategy in Hospitality and TourismLodging and Restaurant Management, BSSenior Living Management, BSTravel Technology and Analytics, MS Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida