Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator State University Grant (SUG) The State University (SUG) program provides need-based awards to eligible undergraduate and graduate/post baccalaureate students who are California residents or otherwise determined as eligible, such as AB 540-eligible students. Funded by the State of California and administered by the California State University. The grant is designed to pay either part-time or full-time state tuition fees based on units of enrollment. To Be Considered Eligible for the Award Complete the FAFSA or California Dream Act application by March 2nd priority deadline. Student must be a California Resident or AB-540 eligible as designated by Admission and Records. Submit All Requested Documents for Verification by Due Date Established on the Student's Center 'To-Do-List'. Continuing students must meet Satisfactory Academic Progress . Note: SUG Eligibility is determined annually based upon a student's Expected Family Contribution, completion of the FAFSA or DREAM application by the March 2nd priority deadline, submission of all requested documents, and is subject to availability of funds. State University Grant (SUG) Enrollment Requirements If a student is enrolled in 7 or more units, there is no change to the SUG award, since the State Tuition Fee remains the same. If a student is enrolled in 6 units, the amount of the SUG award is adjusted to reflect the half-time State Tuition Fee. If a student is enrolled in less than 6 units, the student is not eligible for the SUG award. Students enrolled in less than half-time at census are not eligible for SUG funding, and their award will be canceled. An evaluation of final enrollment for a semester is at the University Census date, (this is last day of the add or drop period by permission, which typically occurs on the fourth Friday of the semester. Note: Students must be enrolled in at least 6 units each semester to receive a SUG payment. Funding is limited and students who filed a financial aid application after the March 2nd priority deadline may be not be offered a SUG award. Important Students who are pursuing a second credential's are not eligible for the State University Grant. This limitation applies to the completion of a previous degree received at CSU, Fullerton or any other college/university. Students who receive tuition/fee waivers, vocational rehabilitation or sponsored tuition/fee waivers are not eligible. Recipient of the State University Grant in one year does not guarantee the award for subsequent years due to availability of funds. State University Grant awards are limited based on the number of units a student has earned and the published length of their academic program. Students enrolled in a stand-alone Certificate Program are not eligible to receive the State University Grant. Credential Awarding Limits Students pursing their initial (first) Credential are eligible to receive a State University Grant award up to the maximum of 30 total earned units while enrolled as a Post-Baccalaureate Credential student. The maximum include all earned units from a prior credential program and any applicable transfer units. The maximum does not include any units completed in a non-credential post-baccalaureate degree program. (Master's or Doctorate). Note: Student pursuing a second credential program are not eligible to receive a State University Grant. Disbursement Requirements for State University Grant Career Actual Units of Enrollment Requirement Disbursed Amount Credential 0-5 units of enrollment Not Eligible Credential 6 units of enrollment Part-Time Tuition Fee * Credential 7 or more units of enrollment Full-Time Tuition Fee * * Tuition Fee can be found on Student Business Services Website. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.