Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home Events Lectures & Seminars Distinguished Lectures Distinguished Lectures The Jackson School’s distinguished lectureships are made possible by support from our friends and alumni. Read more about the lectureships and their benefactors below. All lectures are part of the DeFord seminar series. Upcoming Lectureships Apr. 29, Marcelo Leppe, Chilean Antarctic Institute (INACH) The Edwin Allday Lectureship May 6, Dawn Wright, ESRI The Judd H. and Cynthia S. Oualline Centennial Lectureship in Geological Sciences Past Lectureships The Don R. and Patricia Kidd Boyd Lectureship in Petroleum Exploration Vitor Abreu, Consultant and Adjunct Professor of Earth Science at Rice University Mike Blum, University of Kansas Clara Jones Langston Centennial Lectureship in Vertebrate Paleontology Matthew Collins, University of York, UK Daniel Fisher, University of Michigan John Hutchinson, Royal Veterinary College, London P. David Polly, Indiana University Bloomington Hans-Dieter Sues, National Museum of Natural History Virgil E. and Mildred L. Barnes Distinguished Lecture Series in Geology Julie Castillo-Rogez, Jet Propulsion Laboratory Ken Farley, Caltech Astrid Holzheid, Universität Kiel Matt Jackson, UC Santa Barbara Kathryn Stack Morgan, NASA, Jet Propulsion Laboratory Mark Richards, UC Berkeley Edwin Schauble, Earth and Space Sciences – UCLA Peter Schultz, Brown University An Yin, UCLA Judd H. and Cynthia S. Oualline Centennial Lectureship in Geological Sciences Roland Burgmann, UC Berkeley Rufus Catchings, USGS Sebnem Duzgun, Colorado School of Mines Doug Edmonds, Indiana University Bloomington Bethany Ehlmann, CalTech David Gochis, National Center for Atmospheric Research Michael Grammer, Oklahoma State University Jean Hsieh, Talisman Energy (Canada) Heiner Igel, Munich University, Germany Steve Jacobsen, Northwestern University Randy Koster, NASA Kate Maher, Stanford Wendy Mao, Stanford Sonia Seneviratne, ETH Zurich Stuart Simmons, University of Utah Chris Walker, BP A. Joshua West, University of Southern California Rachel Wood, University of Edinburgh (UK) Judd H. and Cynthia S. Oualline Centennial Lectureship in Petroleum Geology Hendratta Ali, Fort Hays State University Peter Cobbold, Universite de Rennes 1, France Jessica (JC) Creveling, Oregon State University Liviu Matenco, Universiteit Utrecht Edwin Allday Lectureship in Geological Sciences Ariel Anbar, Arizona State University Michael Bostock, University of British Columbia Peter Clift, Lousiana State University Nicolas Dauphas, University of Chicago Giulio Di Toro, University of Manchester, UK Andy Gleadow, University of Melbourne Jie (Jackie) Li, University of Michigan Maureen Long, Yale Andre Revil, Colorado School of Mines Brian Romans, Virginia Tech Frederik Simons, Princeton Bob Stern, UT Dallas James Kinter, Institute of Global Environment and Society Inc. Jeroen Tromp, Princeton University Michael Walter, Carnegie Institution of Washington Fiona Whitaker, University of Bristol (UK) Robert H. Cuyler Endowed Lecture Series Tim Bralower, Penn State Thomas Carr, Carthage College Tim Dixon, Univ. of South Florida Dennis Hartmann, University of Washington Kate Huntington, University of Washington Jean Hutchinson, Queen’s University, Canada Kathleen Johnson, University of California Irvine Peter Kelemen, Lamont-Doherty David Kohlstedt, University of Minnesota Gary Mavko, Stanford University Christie Rowe, McGill University, Canada Lisa White, University of California Museum of Paleontology Stephen Wofsy, Harvard University Mirko van der Baan, University of Alberta (Canada) The Fred L. and Frances J. Oliver Lectureship in Texas Hydrology and Water Resources Stefan Bacchu, Alberta Geological Survey, Edmonton, Alberta William Back, U.S. Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia Andy Baker, The University of New South Wales (Australia) Asmeret Asefaw Berhe, UC Merced Brian Berkowitz, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel Gabriel Bowen, University of Utah Ken Bradbury, Wisconsin Geological Survey, Madison, Wisconsin Stan Davis, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona Robert Dickinson, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona Tim Drever, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyoming Bill Fetter, University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin Tom Gleeson, McGill University Amy Hardberger, St. Mary’s University Charles Harvey, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts Tony Jakeman, Australian National University Gaby Katul, Duke University Wolfgang Kinzelbach, ETH Zurich Alexander Klimchouk, Ukrainian Karst Institute, Kiev, Ukraine Rosemary Knight, Stanford University Stefan Kollet, Bonn University, Bonn, Germany Laurel Larsen, UC Berkeley Fred Leaney, CSIRO, Adelaide, Australia Peter Lichtner, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Santa Fe, New Mexico John Mather, Royal Holloway College, University of London, Surrey, United Kingdom Jennifer McIntosh, University of Arizona Hrvoje Measki, University of Zagreb, Croatia Larry McKay, University of Tennessee, Knoxville Tennessee Holly Michael, University of Delaware Allen Moench, U.S. Geological Survey, Menlo Park, California Chris Neuzil, U.S. Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia Art Palmer, SUNY-Oneonta, Oneonta, New York Frank Schwartz, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio Don Siegel, Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York Craig Simmons, Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia Marios Sophocleous, Kansas Geological Survey, Lawrence, Kansas Cliff Voss, U.S. Geological Survey, Reston, Virginia Chunmiao Zheng, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Alabama The Edwin Allday Lectureship was established in 1982 from the estate of Edwin Allday to support visiting lecturers in geological sciences. Born in 1929, Edwin Allday was an independent oil and gas operator in Houston, Texas. He also had cattle and ranching operations in Red River and Houston Counties, Texas. Allday attended the University of Texas, receiving a BS in geology in 1951 and his Masters in geology in 1953. The Fondren Foundation established the Edwin Allday Centennial Chair in Subsurface Geology to allow for the recruitment of a person with special expertise in the field of subsurface geology. The Virgil E. and Mildred L. Barnes Distinguished Lecture Series in Geology was established in 1998, by the children of Virgil and Mildred Barnes. Preference is given to lecturers in the areas that Virgil was especially passionate about: tektites, meteorites and impact phenomena; geological mapping; Precambrian stratigraphy; economic geology; gravity and magnetics; earth temperatures; Paleozoic stratigraphy; and petrology. Virgil Barnes was a Professor Emeritus of the Department of Geological Sciences, a senior research scientist at the Bureau of Economic Geology and a world renowned scientist. Dr. Barnes was inducted into the Jackson School’s Hall of Distinction in 2008. The Don R. and Patricia Kidd Boyd Lectureship in Petroleum Exploration was established by Mr. and Mrs. Don R. Boyd in 1985 to give a series of lectures on various and timely aspects of petroleum exploration that would be interesting and beneficial to young geologists. Remembering what he learned from attending lectures while a geology student at UT Austin, Mr. Boyd wanted to bring geologists of national stature to speak at the Jackson School with the hope that students would find what was said to be memorable and motivating. On April 24, 2003, the main auditorium and lecture hall in the Jackson Geological Sciences Building on the campus of UT Austin was named the Don R. Boyd Auditorium in honor of Mr. Boyd’s many contributions to the Jackson School. The Robert H. Cuyler Endowed Lecture Series was established in 2008 with a gift from the estate of Benjamin Monroe Anderson. Ben wanted to honor the life of his friend and mentor, Captain Robert Hamilton Cuyler. Cuyler was born in Austin, Texas in 1908 and was Associate Professor of Geology at the University of Texas at Austin for 17 years. His untimely death, while serving his country on a training mission with the Army Air Corps in 1944, was a staggering blow not only to his friends and family, but to the science of geology, specifically micropaleontology and subsurface geology. Ben Anderson earned a degree in geology from the University of Texas at Austin in 1939 where he was a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity. He also spent a year studying aeronautical engineering at the Curtiss-Wright Aeronautical Institute in California. In 1945 he co-founded Anderson-Greenwood and Company to design and build aircraft, which became a world leader in precision valve technology. Ben Anderson died in 2007, at the age of 91. Clara Jones Langston Centennial Lectureship in Vertebrate Paleontology was established in 1983 by an anonymous donor in honor of Ms. Clara Jones Langston. The Fred L. and Frances J. Oliver Lectureship in Texas Hydrology and Water Resources was created in 1985. Fred and Frances Oliver created this lectureship because they believe the study of water resources in Texas is as important as the development and exploration of oil and gas. They established the lectureship with the goal of providing better education concerning water problems being faced by Texas and solutions to those problems. Fred received his B.S. in geology from the University of Texas at Austin in 1951. He is a current member of the Geology Foundation Advisory Council. Fred resides in Dallas, Texas where he is the president of PVT, Inc. In 2009, Fred’s family established the Fred and Frances Oliver Endowed Scholarship in their honor to recruit graduate students in the field of hydrogeology. The Judd H. and Cynthia S. Oualline Centennial Lectureship in Petroleum Geology and The Judd H. and Cynthia S. Oualline Centennial Lectureship in Geological Sciences were established in 1983. The funds exist to bring exceptional and distinguished lecturers to the Jackson School for the benefit of the geosciences community at UT. The endowments honor Mr. Judd H. Oualline of Houston, Texas, a 1942 geology graduate of The University of Texas at Austin and former vice president and general manager of Getty Oil Company’s Southern Exploration and Production Division. He was a director and executive Committee member of the Oklahoma Petroleum Council and a member of both the Western Oil and Gas Association and the Illinois Oil and Gas Association. The petroleum geology lectureship, the first endowed lectureship in the Department of Geological Sciences, and the subsequent geological sciences lectureship were established to meet the then-critical need for funding of outside speakers. Mr. Oualline was instrumental in securing the Getty Oil Company Chair, the first company sponsored chair within the Geology Foundation, which is currently held by Dr. Mark Cloos within the Department of Geosciences. Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Bureau Seminar Series DeFord Lecture Series Distinguished Lectures Geophysics Seminar Series LDE Seminar Series Master’s Saturday Soft Rock Seminar Series UT Paleontology Seminar Series UTIG Discussion Hour UTIG Seminar Series WCE Seminar Series Summits Association Meetings JSG Graduation University Commencement Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader