Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Hospitality Culinary Sport & Leisure Apply Students Careers Research News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Research at KWS KWS Research Research Highlights20162015 Bureau of Sport & Leisure Management Finsheem About the JournalEditorial BoardArticles Take Action Apply to the KWS Program Academic Advising Career Advising Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality & Resort Management Research Kemmons Wilson School Research Research within the Kemmons Wilson School The faculty within the Kemmons Wilson School have over 230 publications and 3,600 citations (GoogleScholar) in academic outlets in fields such as sport management, hospitality and resort management, business, and education. Faculty have published in areas such as sport fandom, escalation of commitment, hotel management and marketing, food production, sport policy, sport for development, rivalry in sport, social impact of sport, education, ethnic studies, and service learning. News: Rhema Fuller and Graduate Student Publication Fuller, R.D., Brandon, L., Griffin, W. (in press). What should the NFL do about Colin Kaepernick? A decision-making case study. Sage Business Cases. Dr. Cody T. Havard featured in book about sport fans Dr. Cody T. Havard, associate professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management, was featured in the book Superfans: Into the Heart of Obsessive Sports Fandom, written by Pulitzer Prize winner George Dorhmann. Dr. Cody T. Havard interviewed by UofM student for WMC Actions News 5 on why People watch the Super Bowl Dr. Cody T. Havard, associate professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management, was interviewed for a segment produced by UofM student Nathan Galloway about why people watch the Super Bowl. Dr. Cody T. Havard quoted in the Daily Helmsman on post-Games Olympic venues Dr. Cody T. Havard, associate professor of sport commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was quoted in the Daily Helsman on a story about what happens to Olympic venues once the Games are finished. Radesh Palakurthi Publication Nicely, A. & Palakurthi, R. (2018). Organizational culture requirements for high levels of knowledge usage from learning activities among hotel managers. International Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Administration, 19(1), 1-25. The issue can be found at https://www.libreriauniversitaria.it/pedagogical-innovation-and-learning-outcomes/libro/9788896231203 Donghee Kim Publication Kim, D., & Jang, S. S. (2018). Online sharing behavior on social networking sites: Examining narcissism and gender effects. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 68, 89-93. Dr. Cody T. Havard co-edits a special issue on Rivalry in Sport for Sport Marketing Quarterly Dr. Cody T. Havard, associate professor of sport commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was lead co-editor for the recently released special issue on Rivalry in Sport published by Sport Marketing Quarterly. The special issue highlights marketing and practitioner implications of sport rivalry. The issue can be found at http://fitpublishing.com/journals/sport-marketing-quarterly-264-smq. A video podcast of the special issue articles can be found at http://www.sportrivalry.com/marketing-sport-rivalry-sport-marketing-quarterly-special-issue/. Kemmons Wilson School Students to Present Research Graduate Conference in Fort Worth Graduate students from the Kemmons Wilson School submitted and will present research findings at the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism! Babb, J., W., & Kim, D., & Silkes, C.A., (2018) Economic Impact of Music Festival Tourism in Memphis, Tennessee. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Bailey, D., & Silkes, C.A., (2018) Investigating the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities of a Successful Concierge. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Clay, L., & Silkes , C.A., (2018) Evaluating the Impact of Technology on Customer Service in the hotel Industry. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3- 5. Evans, K., (2018) The Impact of Cultural Differences and Cultural Awareness on Expatriates. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Rahman, A., & Silkes, C.A., (2018) Human Trafficking: Causes, Consequences, and Solutions. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Razmi, Z., & Kim, D., & Hutchinson, M., (2018) Assessing Unique Service Styles Restaurants' Consumer Motivations of Willingness to Pay and Visit Intention. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Rengel, E., V., & Silkes, C.A., (2018) Expanding a family restaurant through an introduction of Standards, Training and a Culture of Service. Proceedings of the 23th Annual Graduate Education and Graduate Student Research Conference in Hospitality and Tourism, Fort Worth, TX, USA January 3-5. Donghee Kim Publication Kim, D., & Jang, S. S. (2017). Therapeutic benefits of dining out, traveling, and drinking: Coping strategies for lonely consumers to improve their mood. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 67, 106-114. Michael Hutchinson Publication Bouchet, A., Laird, M. D., Troilo, M., Hutchinson, M., & Ferris, G. (2017). Effects of increased commitment on reputation and status: Evidence from NCAA Division I universities. Sport Management Review, 20, 395-407. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.smr.2016.11.002 Donghee Kim Publication Kim, D., & Jang, S. S. (2017). Stress and food choice: Examining gender differences and the time horizon framing effect. International Journal of Hospitality Management. 67. 134-142. Rhema D. Fuller Publication Fuller, R. D., Harrison, C. K., Lawrence, S. M., Eyanson, J. & McCardle, D. (2017). "I will change the world": The intersection of social change and male college athletes' leadership perspectives. International Journal of Exercise Science, 10(6), 845-856. Available at: http://digitalcommons.wku.edu/ijes/vol10/iss6/4 Brennan K. Berg, Rhema D. Fuller, and Michael Hutchinson Publication Berg, B. K., Winsley, K., Fuller, R. D., & Hutchinson, M. (2017).From crisis to de-escalation: An examination of politics in a U.S. high school steroid testing program. International Journal of Exercise Science, 10(6), 890-899. Available at: http://digitalcommons.wku.edu/ijes/vol10/iss6/7 Cody T. Havard, Timothy D. Ryan, and Norman O'Neal Publication Havard, C. T., Wann, D. L., Ryan T. D., & O'Neal, N. (2017). Does time heal all wounds? A case study on rival perceptions before and after conference realignment. International Journal of Exercise Science, 10(6), 823-832. Available at: http://digitalcommons.wku.edu/ijes/vol10/iss6/2 Cody T. Havard and Michael Hutchinson Publication Havard, C. T., & Hutchinson, M. (2017). Investigating rivalry in professional sport. International Journal of Sport Management, 18, 422-440. Cody T. Havard interviewed by AZCentral Dr. Cody T. Havard, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was interviewed by AZCentral for a story about the rivalry between the Arizona Wildcats and the Arizona State Sun Devils. Brennan Berg interview with WMC News Dr. Brennan Berg, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was interviewed by WMC News in Memphis about his research on Olympic Athletes. The interview can be found here. Cody T. Havard Publication Wann, D. L., Grieve, F. G., Havard, C. T., Zapalac, R. K., Peetz, T. B., & Lanter, J. R. (2017). Sport fan evaluations of a Major League Baseball session: Key predictors and influence on future evaluations and consumption behaviors. Journal of Global Sport Management, 1-19. DOI. Cody T. Havard interviewed on WUMR 91.7 Dr. Cody T. Havard, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was interviewed about his research on Sport Rivalry by WUMR 91.7. The interview can be heard at www.sportrivalry.com or here. Rhema D. Fuller Publication Fuller, R.D. (2017). Perception or reality: The relationship between stereotypes, discrimination, and the academic outcomes of African American male college athletes. Journal of Sport and Social Issues. DOI. Brennan Berg featured on 94.3 FM Dr. Brennan Berg, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management had his research featured on 94.3 FM The Game Sports Radio. A recording of the interview can be found here. Brennan Berg interview with WMC NBC Dr. Brennan Berg, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School of Hospitality and Resort Management was featured on WMC NBC to discuss his research on student-athlete social development. The project is funded by the American Athletic Conference and the interview can be found here. Brennan Berg works with Memphis Athletics and AAC Dr. Brennan Berg, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School will work with the Memphis Tigers Athletics Department, along with others in the American Athletic Conference (AAC), to better understand how sense of community is fostered for student-athletes at institutions around the conference. The research is being funded by the AAC Academic Consortium. For more information, please see the press release from the Memphis Athletics Department. Press Release from Athletics Department Cody T. Havard and Timothy D. Ryan work with NACMA Cody T. Havard and Timothy D. Ryan completed research for the National Association of Collegiate Marketing Administrators regarding student attendance at home intercollegiate sporting events. Dr. Havard presented the findings of the study at the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics conference in Orlando, Florida. Rhema D. Fuller, Brennan K. Berg, and Michael Hutchinson Publication Fuller, R. D., Berg, B. K. & Hutchinson, M. (2017). Aspirations through association: Using athletics to enhance institutional prestige. Case Studies in Sport Management, 6(1), 20-30. DOI Rhema D. Fuller Publication Fuller, R. D., Lawrence, M. L., Harrison, C. K., Eyanson, J., & Osika, L. (2017). Perks for Players: High School Teachers' Perceptions of Athletic Privilege. American Secondary Education, 45(2), 39-45. Michael Hutchinson Interviewed by WalletHub Michael Hutchinson, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School discussed what makes the best and worst cities for basketball in the United States. Inna Soifer wins Second Prize in Case Study Competition Inna Soifer, instructor of Hospitality and Resort Management in the Kemmons Wilson School won second prize in the 2017 ICHRIE Johnson & Wales Hospitality & Tourism Case Study Competition for her case study "Is social media marketing a necessary evil?". Her co-author and she will present the case study at the 2017 ICHRIE Summer Conference in Baltimore, Maryland where they will receive a $750 award. Brennan Berg receives Grant from AAC Dr. Brennan Berg, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School received a grant in the amount of $7,000 from the American Athletics Conference to study the promotion of healthy communities for AAC student athletes. The citation is listed below: American Athletics Conference Research Grant Program ($7,000). Promoting Healthy Community for AAC Student-Athletes. S. Warner (Co-Pl) & B. K. Berg (Co-Pl), June 2017 - May 2018. Radesh Palakurthi Book Publication Dr. Radesh Palakurthi, IHG Endowed Chair of Excellence, Professor, and Dean of the Kemmons Wilson School published a book on pedagogy in hospitality education. Pedagogical Innovation and Learning Outcomes Assessment in Hospitality Education: A Cultural Perspective, published by Ingorda is available on Google Books. Cody T. Havard interviewed by Chicago Tribune Cody T. Havard discussed behavior and rivalry as it relates to Chicago Cubs fans reactions to playing the 2017 baseball season as defending World Series Champions. Cody T. Havard interviewed by South Carolina Media Cody T. Havard discussed fan behavior and rivalry as it relates to South Carolina Men's Basketball Final Four run with The Island Packet. Cody T. Havard and Timothy D. Ryan Publication Havard, C. T., Wann, D. L., & Ryan, T. D. (2017). Reinvestigating the impact of conference realignment on rivalry in intercollegiate athletics. Journal of Applied Sport Management, 9(2) 25-36. doi: 10.18666/JASM-2017-V9-Is-8029 Rhema Fuller Publication Fuller, R., McGarry, J., Coble, C., Evanovich, J. & Zastoupil, G. (2017). Action in a campus-community partnership: Lessons learned. Research Methods Cases. doi: 10.4135/9781526423313 Cody T. Havard named co-Editor of Journal of Amateur Sport Cody T. Havard, assistant professor of Sport Commerce in the Kemmons Wilson School was named co-Editor of the Journal of Amateur Sport beginning July 1, 2017. Since its inception, the Journal of Amateur Sport has published high-quality research related to the production and consumption of amateur sport. Dr. Havard is very excited to assume the role of co-Editor and looks forward to maintaining the important contributions the journal has made to the field of sport management and education. Dr. Havard's term runs from July 2017 to July 2020. Rhema Fuller Publication Fuller, R.D., Lawrence, S.M., Harrison, C.H., Eyanson, J., Parks, C. (2017). The Impact of High School on the Leadership Development of African American Male Scholar-Athletes. The High School Journal, 100, 146-162 Donghee Kim Publication Kim, Donghee and SooCheong Shawn Jang. "Symbolic consumption in upscale cafés: Examining Korean gen Y consumers' materialism, conformity, conspicuous tendencies, and functional qualities." Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Research (2017): DOI Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/26/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.