Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Department of Economics Undergraduate Forward Arrow Undergraduate Advising Student Activities Creative Inquiry Global Engagement Internships Back Arrow Back Masters Forward Arrow Masters M.A. in Economics M.S. in Economic Analytics Back Arrow Back Ph.D. Forward Arrow Ph.D. Overview of Course Sequence Prospective Students Ph.D. Informal Application Current Ph.D. Students Placements Back Arrow Back News & Spotlights Economic Trends Forward Arrow Economic Trends Back Arrow Back Faculty & Staff Contact Us Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Clemson Econ Welcomes Jonathan Leganza & Santiago Caicedo Undergraduate show submenu for Undergraduate Advising Student Activities Creative Inquiry Global Engagement Internships Masters show submenu for Masters M.A. in Economics M.S. in Economic Analytics Ph.D. show submenu for Ph.D. Overview of Course Sequence Prospective Students Ph.D. Informal Application Current Ph.D. Students Placements News & Spotlights Economic Trends More Faculty & Staff Contact Us Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Departments Current: Department of Economics The John E. Walker Department of Economics Economics is a way of thinking about every aspect of human behavior, from the management of a business firm to the raising of children. At its core, the "economic approach" is the application of the basic principles of rational choice to business decisions, public policy issues, and everyday life. Economics majors become adept at thinking logically, which prepares them for success in the widest possible variety of occupations. About John E. Walker John E. Walker ’58 has been both an economics professor and a highly successful entrepreneur. Founder of Andesa TPA Inc., Dr. Walker is a pioneer of the information economy, whose business vision was a direct outgrowth of his economics training. Because of his belief in the fundamental importance of economics as a field of study and his dedication to Clemson, in October 2001, Dr. Walker announced his gift of nearly $7 million to fund the expansion of the department's faculty and the enhancement of its programs. Dr. Walker was also instrumental in developing the Walker Golf Course, named after his father, Colonel John E. Walker Sr. ’26. Give to Economics Exchange Monthly Department of Economics Fall 2022 Seminar Series - 3:30 p.m. The schedule for the Fall 2022 Seminar Series will be posted soon. Economics News Tweets by ClemsonEcon Department News & Events Michael T. Maloney, emeritus professor of economics – July 27, 2021 Longtime Clemson University economics professor Michael T. Maloney, 71, of Clemson passed July 27, 2021. Maloney was a Professor of Economics at Clemson for 45 years. He retired in 2008 but returned to work temporarily until 2013. He was a member of the Emeritus College. Read Memorials. William A Ward, Emeritus Professor of Economics – April 2, 2021 The John E. Walker Department of Economics mourns the passing of Bill Ward. Bill received his undergraduate degree from Clemson and was a member of the Department for 23 years. Bill has spent a significant part of his career at the World Bank in Washington DC. Whether he was at Clemson or at the World Bank, Bill was a friend of the Department and he looked to support the Department in any way possible. Read More. John E. Walker Department of Economics Copyright © Clemson University John E. Walker Department of Economics | 320 Wilbur O. and Ann Powers Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3481 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Twitter LinkedIn Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson