Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Digital Access Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home About Us Digital Accessibility Lab Resources Accessibility Statement Siteimprove Home Digital Accessibility Policy Going live January 3, 2022 policy.iastate.edu What is digital accessibility? When all users can equally access the information and functionality of a website or any type of digital content, these are considered accessible. Many websites are difficult or impossible to use for some people because the website presents barriers to universal access. This is often a result of creating content or developing websites without taking all users into consideration. Overwhelmingly, 70% of all U.S. websites are inaccessible according to Nucleus Research's The Internet is Unavailable. Best practices for accessibility occur in every part of a website’s development and maintenance. It also applies to any content that may end up online, be it a Word document, a PowerPoint presentation, a PDF, or any other. From web designers and web developers to website builders and content editors, we are all responsible for making the web accessible for all. One of the great things about digital accessibility is that it improves the experience for all users including users with disabilities. Read more about digital accessibility This webinar will discuss current trends connecting the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) through the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1. Full transcript available on YouTube. Want to learn more? Visit our Digital Accessibility at ISU Playlist on YouTube Digital Accessibility Lab 116 Durham 613 Morrill Rd digitalaccess@iastate.edu Social media Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram MS Teams Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information