Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ Enrollment Services Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Information The purpose of the Cost of Attendance (COA), sometimes referred to as the “student budget”, is to provide students and families with an estimated cost to attend SMU for a single academic year, consisting of two terms (Fall and Spring), or nine calendar months (September to the following May). The COA is reviewed and approved by the University administration. The following information explains how the COA is determined and the role it plays in calculating your total financial aid package. The Cost of Attendance not only provides baseline information on how much it will cost to attend SMU, but it is also determines the maximum amount a student is eligible to receive in total financial assistance. It is the starting point for building a financial aid award that combines scholarships, grants and loans from various funding sources into a single award package. The combined total of all funding sources cannot exceed the COA. Keep in mind that the COA, as it relates to your financial aid, is the estimated cost for the majority of students enrolled in a degree seeking academic program. It includes allowances for tuition, fees, housing, dining, transportation, books, supplies, and miscellaneous expenses. The amount used for each expense category will vary depending on the degree plan, specific program of study, number of enrolled hours, and choice of housing. Direct Costs vs In-Direct Costs Direct costs: Educational expenses that are billed directly by the University such as tuition, fees, housing and dining for students living on campus. In-Direct costs: Expenses that are directly related to your education, but not billed by the University. For example, students living off campus are expected to pay rent and utilities. These expenses are related to your education, but are not billed directly by the university. They are "in-direct costs". The amounts may vary significantly depending on a student's choice in housing, neighborhood, utility service plans, etc. 2022-2023 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance The following assumes full-time enrollment of 12-18 hours in the fall and spring terms. Summer and Inter-term expenses are not included in the following example. To determine exact tuition and fees based on 1-11 enrolled hours, please see the University Bursar's Direct Cost of Attendance webpage. Expenses for those living off-campus are specific to the individual student and should be considered when evaluating your housing options. Expenses will vary significantly due to the choice of neighborhood, apartment rental rates, number of roommates, or living with parents. Graduate and Professional Cost of Attendance The following information is based on estimated expenses for a single student, living off-campus, without a roommate. Information for Graduate International Student I-20 Requests can be found here. Direct Costs (Typically billed by SMU): Tuition rates and fees for Graduate programs vary depending on your academic program. To determine exact direct costs for your specific program of study, please see the University Bursar's Direct Cost of Attendance page. Tuition (See Bursar's Direct Cost page )* Student Fees (See Bursar's Direct Cost page )* In-Direct Costs (Estimated expenses not billed by SMU) Allowance for Off-Campus Housing & Dining, Books, Supplies, Loan Fees, Transportation, & Miscellaneous expenses Online programs in-direct cost allowance $27,237 $24,387 **Allowances are estimated based on off-campus housing. Expenses for living off-campus are specific to the individual student and will vary significantly depending on the type of housing, choice in neighborhood, home leasing/rental rates and the number of occupants. Each of these should be considered when evaluating your housing options. Financial Aid Cost of Attendance The Financial Aid Process Forms HEERF Reporting Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Meet your Financial Aid Advisor Contact Us Types of Aid SMU Net Price Calculator Right to Know Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share