Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel Visit and Interview with Tuck Exploring Tuck We are excited to connect with you and help you get to know our vibrant community through a variety of events. Hear from a member of the Tuck Admissions team and a panel of alumni at an Information Session, connect with a member of the admissions committee and fellow applicants in a small-scale Conversation, or speak directly with a student at an Ambassador Coffee Chat. Tour our campus virtually, and see the physical beauty of Tuck and the Upper Valley on our YouTube channel. And, learn about the Tuck experience through our student and alumni stories or reach out directly to our Tuck Student Ambassadors. Interviewing with Tuck Admissions interviews are an opportunity for you to further demonstrate that you are smart, accomplished, aware, and encouraging. They provide additional information on who you are, what you have done, where you are going, and how you will get there. All applicants admitted to Tuck will interview prior to an admissions offer. HOW ARE INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED? There are two paths to an interview: Guaranteed virtual interviews — All Round 1 applicants who submit their complete application, including Letters of Reference, by September 1, 2021 (or October 1, 2021 if applying to Tuck through the Consortium), and all Round 2/Round 2 Consortium applicants, who submit their complete application by December 1, 2021, will be guaranteed an interview. Invitational virtual interviews — For all other applicants, interviews are offered by invitation only. We will review your application and invite you to interview if we believe it will help us learn more about how you demonstrate our admissions criteria. We understand that not everyone can submit their complete application by the aforementioned deadlines. Don’t worry if this is true for you. We value all interviews equally in our evaluation process, whether guaranteed or invitational. WHEN ARE INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED? Application Round Interview notifications sent beginning Interview notifications sent until Round 1 Mid-August, 2021 Early December, 2021 Round 2 Early December, 2021 Mid-March, 2022 Round 3 Mid-March, 2022 Late April, 2022 Round 1 Consortium Early October, 2021 Early December, 2021 Round 2 Consortium Early December, 2022 Mid-March, 2022 We release invitations to interview on a rolling basis. While we aim to send most invitations early in the application cycle, it is possible to receive an invitation to interview in the days prior to the decision notification date. The timing of your interview invitation does not reflect the committee’s level of interest in your application. HOW ARE INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED? Most interviews are conducted by a select group of trained second-year students, Tuck Admissions Associates (TAAs), and last 30-45 minutes. Using only your resume, your interviewer will ask you behavioral questions aimed to draw out evidence that you are smart, accomplished, aware, and encouraging. At the end of the interview, you will have an opportunity to ask questions of your interviewer to learn more about their experience and Tuck. Questions? Visit Admissions FAQs and Tuck Admissions Insights: Your Admissions Interview for more information about interviews and how to prepare. Apply Now Connect With Us Take a 360° Tour of Campus Helpful Links Application Materials Additional Info for Applicants Financing Your Degree Admissions FAQ Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Tuck Ambassadors Tuck on Social Tuck 360: MBA Blog Tuck’s 2022-2023 Essay Questions Admissions Home Return to the Tuck Admissions homepage. Applying to Tuck Guidance as you prepare to apply. Admissions FAQ Have questions? Find answers here. Connect with Our Community Learn more about Tuck by connecting with members of our community. Class Profile Get to know the incoming class at Tuck. Admissions Criteria Tuck students consistently demonstrate four attributes. You’re a strong candidate for admission if you demonstrate them too. Important Dates Upcoming dates and deadlines. Virtual Class Visits Watch recordings from select current classes to get a better sense of the virtual classroom experience at Tuck. 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy