Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Show/Hide About Compliance and Oversight Action Plans Initiatives Resources Incident Reporting Events Curriculum Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America The Center for the Study of Race Ethnicity at Brown is an interdisciplinary program that develops and promotes research and programs on race and ethnicity. The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice The Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice is a scholarly research center with a public humanities mission. The Choices Program The Choices Program offers curriculum, multimedia, professional development and student forums to support the teaching of the history of slavery. DIAP Courses: Race, Gender, and Inequality DIAP Courses: Race, Gender, and Inequality examine issues of structural inequality, racial formations and/or disparities, and systems of power within a complex, pluralistic world. DIAP courses may investigate: the ways different forms of power and privilege construct racial and identity formations in the U.S. and/or globally; the cultural, political, and intellectual responses to this racialization; the production of categories of ethnicity, race, gender, sexual orientation, class, religion, ability, citizenship status, and geography (and their intersections); the structures, institutions, practices, and attitudes that enable, maintain, or mitigate domestic and/or global disparities in health, income, education outcomes, media representations, etc.; the production of knowledge and difference in the context of discourses on race, power, and privilege. Exchange with Tougaloo College For more than 50 years, the College has sponsored Student and faculty exchanges with Tougaloo College, a historically Black college in Mississippi. An early identification program provides Tougaloo students with admission to Brown Medical School. Pembroke Center The Pembroke Center was established in 1981 as a research center on gender. Funded in its early years by the Ford Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Rockefeller Foundation, the Center now supports its programs largely through its endowment, made possible by generous alumnae and other donors. Rites and Reason The mission of Rites and Reason is to develop new works for the American Stage, which analyze and articulate the phenomenal and universal odyssey of the African Diaspora. Over the years, the mission has grown to embrace the expression of other cultural experiences. Resources Training Resources Request Consultation/Training Resources for Anti-Racism Resources for Virtual Environments Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Contact Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity Brown University Box 1988 Horace Mann, Third Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2216 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat