Skip to main content Student Financial Services Columbia University in the City of New York Search Submit SFSCU Undergraduates Graduate Students Veterans & Service Members Parents & Families Work-Study Financial Wellness Menu > Undergraduates Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Graduate Students Financial Aid Work-Study Bills & Payments Financial Wellness Veterans & Service Members Getting Started General Information Fed Loan Benefits Financial Wellness Parents & Families Financial Aid Bills & Payments Work-Study Work-Study Financial Wellness Financial Wellness You are here Home Bills & Payments Bills & Payments Other Ways to Pay Tuition Exemption Benefit Bills & Payments Overview Getting Started Bills & Payments Basics Billing Schedule Logging into SSOL Authorizing a Payer Your Account Statement Paying Your Bill Options for Managing Payments Unpaid Bills Other Ways to Pay Online Check Mail Wire Payment Plan Sponsored Students Tuition Exemption AmeriCorps Awards College Savings Plans Getting Refunds Credit Balances and Refunds Stipend Awards Direct Deposit For Parents For Administrators Tuition Exemption Benefit On This Page: Not A Reimbursement Program | Submission Deadlines | Taxes Tuition Exemption for Columbia Employees and Family Members The Tuition Exemption Benefit Program is available to eligible Columbia University Officers and Support Staff, and certain family members. The Tuition Exemption Benefit Program pays tuition costs, depending on your eligibility, for courses at Columbia University, and for some students at Barnard College and Teachers College. Not A Reimbursement Or Remission Program Note that this is not a reimbursement or remission program; your tuition is simply exempted, up to a limit depending on eligibility. However, you are responsible for any applicable mandatory fees that are assessed at registration, such as student life fees, residence fees, course fees, student health fees, medical insurance, and textbooks. Columbia University Human Resources determines employees' eligibility for these benefits. Student Financial Services processes Tuition Exemption benefits as determined by Human Resources. More information about eligibility is available on the Human Resources website. To Top Submission Deadlines Each Term To make sure your paperwork is processed on time, avoid late fees, and ensure any graduate-course-related tax exemption is applied in time to your paycheck, please note: Each term, you must submit your Tuition Exemption Eligibility Form and, if you are taking graduate-level courses and are eligible for the Job-Related tax exemption, your Job-Related Graduate Course Certification Form, after the first bill of the new term and before the end of the Change of Program period. See the Academic Calendar for the Change of Program dates. Forms need to be taken to the Student Service Center (or your school's equivalent office, as listed on the form). To Top Taxation on Graduate Courses Tuition Exemption benefits for graduate courses are taxable under IRS regulations unless these courses are job-related. If you are an eligible employee taking graduate courses that are job-related and not leading toward a doctoral degree, please submit the Job-Related Graduate Course Certification Application to Student Financial Services for processing. For contact information, visit the Contact Us page. Eligible employees are entitled to take up to $5,250 worth of graduate coursework per calendar year without being taxed. Employees are always taxed on the value of Tuition Exemption for graduate coursework of their eligible family members. The $5,250 cap does not apply to these family members. For more information on taxation, please refer to this HR website. For taxable tuition benefits, deductions are taken directly from the employee's paycheck and spread out evenly over the following pay periods: Fall term: October, November, December, and January Spring term: February, March, April, and May Summer term: June, July, August, and September To Top For Questions Contact On eligibility: Human Resources On tax withholding: Office of the Controller: Payroll To submit paperwork: Morningside & CUMC Scan & Email: [email protected] Barnard Scan & Email: [email protected] Teachers College Scan & Email: [email protected] Quick Links SSOL Forms & Docs Administrator Portal Alumni Information About Us Contact Our Service Centers Departments Registrar ID Center E-Billing Housing Dining Health Forms SFS Forms Veterans Forms HR Forms Finance Forms CUMC IT Service Forms IT Systems Email Services SIS SSOL Software Downloads myColumbia ARC Portal Training Courseworks Lynda.com Getting Help Service Center Ask Us IT Help Office Locations © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York