Skip to main content Main Menu Programs Undergraduate Full-Time MBA Flex MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Executive Education Business Master's Plus 1 PhD Graduate Certificate in Technology Management Alumni HireSmith Office of Alumni Relations Office of Development Giving to the Smith School Faculty Academic Departments Smith Analytics Consortium Research Maryland Smith Research Smith Brain Trust About Message From The Dean Our Namesake Centers of Excellence News Events Directory Administrative Offices Career Services Diversity and Inclusion TerrapinSTRONG Location and Directions Info For COVID-19 Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Military and Veterans News Media Entrepreneurs Recruiters Corporate Partners Search Apply Inquire Welcome to Maryland Smith Leaders for a Technology-Enabled World Welcome to a learning community that embraces the complexities of the modern world while preparing to overcome the grand challenges of tomorrow. Our world-renowned faculty and forward-looking curriculum will help you define your path, discover your passion and engage the future with purpose. Learn From Global Thought Leaders Launch Extraordinary Careers Join Our Diverse, Successful Community Experience the Power of the Smith Network Undergraduate Program Secure an internship that could lead to your dream job. Join a club, or join five. Study abroad. Find a specialty in our Fellows Program. And don’t miss the annual Smith in the City trip to New York. There’s nothing you can’t do as a Maryland Smith undergrad. #13 Among Public Institutions U.S. News, 2022 99% Land Full-time Positions U.S. News, 2021 I knew Maryland Smith was the right place to polish my skills and establish expertise. The school provided me with the right tools to achieve my goals and succeed in the professional world. Zoha Tariq ’19 Senior Technology Risk Consultant EY New Opportunities for Undergrads Maryland Smith is launching two new undergraduate programs that will give our highest-achieving students a big-picture view of business and industry in the changing workplace. The Interdisciplinary Business Honors Living-Learning Program and the Smith Business Leadership Fellows Program are each designed to enrich the college experience for the highest-achieving undergraduate applicants and further nurture their intellectual curiosity. Explore Smith's Undergraduate Program MBA Programs Ready to take on grand challenges? With a Maryland Smith MBA, you’ll be ready to adapt, innovate and lead fearlessly in a constantly evolving world. Full-Time MBA #26 Full-Time MBA Fortune, 2021 Flex MBA #8 Faculty (U.S.) Economist, 2021 Executive MBA #18 EMBA (U.S) Financial Times, 2021 Online MBA #9 Online MBA U.S. News, 2021 The career coaching that I received at Smith was unmatched. The connections I made and continue to make are invaluable, whether it's connecting me with someone I need to meet, or connecting someone looking for guidance with me. Sherika Ekpo, MBA ’09 Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer Anaplan Explore Smith's MBA Program Business Master's Programs Maryland Smith’s Business Master’s degree programs teach you to analyze data and think critically to solve business problems. You’ll develop advanced knowledge of a specialized business area, helping you stand out to employers and make a real impact in the workplace. Business Analytics Online Business Analytics on Campus Accounting Business and Management Finance Supply Chain Management Marketing Analytics Quantitative Finance Information Systems Plus 1 Program The OMSBA opened new paths and taught me the fundamental skills I needed for the workforce. I interviewed with incredibly competitive companies that would have been out of reach previously. This program has been extremely beneficial for my career — it’s been everything I wanted. Dan Waldman, MSBA ’22 eCommerce analyst Chewy Explore Smith Master's Programs PhD Program Shaping the future of business scholarship by inspiring contributions to the discovery and dissemination of knowledge through exciting careers in research and teaching at top universities around the world. Areas of Specialization Current PhD Students Your Career Explore Smith's PhD Program Executive Education Our broad range of expertise – from leadership training and executive coaching to data analytics and finance – empowers current and future leaders to reach their fullest potential and transform their organizations. Tailored Programs for Organizations Open Programs for Individuals Open Programs for Teams Explore Smith's Executive Education Programs Learn from Global Thought Leaders Our one-of-a-kind faculty create a vibrant intellectual community where you’ll be challenged to learn and grow. Our highly regarded research faculty are shaping the practice of business around the world. Michael Kimbrough Albert “Pete” Kyle Ritu Agarwal Roland Rust Wendy Moe Anil Gupta Current Research Articles Playbook for a Climate-Ready Supply Chain Extreme weather that has increasingly hammered factories, rail lines, ports and highways is expected to intensify as the globe continues to warm. Across industries, leadership teams have awakened to the high degree of financial risk posed by this climate change. Executives are asking: How exposed is our global supply chain network? Which critical sites have the highest exposure in terms of revenue impact? Which types of events could potentially affect each site? Are appropriate business continuity plans in place to protect our operations? Optimizing RFID Technology for Utility Companies Barring an unusually high bill, most of us pay our utility bills and don’t think much else of it. What many of us don’t know is utility companies, already low margin businesses, need to be highly efficient in reading our utility meters every billing cycle in order to avoid unnecessary costs. This is where the meter-reading technology research from Maryland Smith comes in. The Unintended Consequences of Asking for Employee Input Feeling comfortable enough to speak up and share your ideas and opinions at work is usually a good thing – that’s the environment most organizations should want to encourage. But some managers who solicit input might not give employees who do so enough credit, finds new research from Maryland Smith’s Subra Tangirala. Why Companies are Leaving Money on the Table Imagine a world where your deliveries are always on time and your food is never cold. Restaurants are able to coordinate when to cook orders and apps are able to efficiently assign drivers multiple orders or even ask customers picking up an order if they would be willing to drop off an order with their neighbor on the way back. This is the efficient world Maryland Smith professor Zhi-Long Chen and Ohio State University professor Nicholas G. Hall are hoping to help create through their newly published book, “Supply Chain Scheduling.” Helping Drivers Take a Turn for the Better Running into a one-way or no-left-turn street can be pretty frustrating as a driver. It’s an even bigger problem for vehicles responsible for mapping streets as well. But new research from Maryland Smith has a solution. Gender, Competitiveness and How We Advocate for Others In the workplace, success sometimes comes down to how competitive you are. And sometimes it comes down to how competitive the people are who are advocating on your behalf. With a Legal Expert in Leadership, Firms Are Less Likely to Overstate Earnings Firms are more likely to face accounting-related lawsuits for overstating their earnings or assets than for understating them because it’s easier to demonstrate investor harm with overstatements. So erring on the conservative side can reduce a firm’s legal costs. People Analytics for an Equitable Workplace “People analytics” – traceable to 1911’s The Principles of Scientific Management, which sought to apply engineering methods to managing people – has exploded with advances in computer power, statistical methods and artificial intelligence (AI). Do COVID Lockdowns Really Work? As the world struggles to contain the spread of COVID-19, many countries grapple with the possibility of imposing more lockdown measures, like those widely used in the spring of 2020. But how well do lockdowns work at keeping people home? New research from Maryland Smith’s Yogesh Joshi finds they are effective – but for limited periods of time. New Marketing Technologies Usher In Data-Driven Growth In a new Journal of Marketing special issue, “New Technologies in Marketing,” Maryland Smith’s Michel Wedel co-authors an editorial that outlines how academics can support marketers to deliver data-driven growth. What Happens When You Feel Important at Work – and Then You Don’t. Even the most powerful manager sometimes cleans up dishes in the breakroom, and even the least powerful employees in organizations sometimes get to make important decisions. These examples indicate that power is a dynamic state – we often feel both powerful and powerless at work on any given day. New research from Maryland Smith’s Trevor Foulk suggests that this fluctuating sense of power can have surprising effects on our well-being. Can You Bank Happiness? Can you revel in happy moments now, to soak them in and store them up to help you through future sadness? New research from Maryland Smith’s Ali Faraji-Rad finds that many people actively try to bank their happiness so they can draw on it later to cope with a sad event. 18 Smith Faculty are in the top 2% of the most cited scholars worldwide. Launch Extraordinary Careers Smith’s deep connections to the business community open unmatched opportunities. Advisory Councils keep us actively engaged with industry leaders and experts, who bring their real-world experience to help shape what students learn, match classroom lessons to real-world needs, and widen the pipeline for internship and job opportunities. 2,100 Employers that recruited Smith students last year — a number that has grown by 30% since 2019. 3,000+ Active recruiting partners ready to help you find the perfect next step in your career. As I moved along the interview ladder, I worked with my career coach to sharpen my responses. My last round of interviews went so well that Amazon offered me a more senior role than I originally applied for Blanka Thibaud, MBA ’21 Real Estate Transactions Manager Amazon Information for Students Information for Employers Join Our Diverse, Successful Community Your success depends on an environment that is as supportive as it is challenging. You’ll feel that support from faculty, staff and your classmates. 100% African American Students Retention 98% Female Student Retention 91% Latinx Student Retention Diversity means being exposed to different perspectives. If you surround yourself with people who think like you, then you are selling yourself short. Marc Marshall ’23 Strategy Consultant PwC UMD Mental Health First Aid Thursday, June 2, 2022 9:00 AM EDT View Event Mental Health First Aid Learn More About Diversity and Inclusion at Smith Experience the Power of the Smith Network The Smith community extends far beyond the walls of Van Munching Hall. With more than 66,000 alumni globally, and partnerships with prestigious companies, organizations and foundations, you’re never without a connection. Jessica Ennis Ali Salhi Akash Palkhiwala Dubbaneh Siblings Jennifer Felix Sylvia Bugg Mark Ciardi Sagar Math Nadine Payne Jason Cohen Kevin Plank Kevin Plank knows what it means to be a game-changer. He transformed the world of sports apparel when he launched Under Armour in 1996. Read the profile: Following a Vision, Becoming a Game-Changer Robert G. Hisaoka Robert G. Hisaoka ’79 believes building a strong business begins with building a strong team through great communication and measuring performance. Over the span of his career, he’s done just that. Read the profile: From Autos to Philanthropy, Driven To Make a Difference Carly Fiorina When Carly Fiorina, MBA ’80, looks back over the arc of her career, what stands out for her isn’t a single achievement or experience. That’s not what defines her. So what does stand out for her as she looks back? Read the profile: From Student to CEO, Solving Problems Explore Ways to Engage as a Smith Alum Learn More About How to Invest in Smith Welcome from Dean Prabhudev Konana Welcome to the Robert H Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland! It is an exciting time to be part of the Maryland Smith community. Located just 7 miles from the White House, we are at the heart of both business and power, with multinational corporations, influential NGOs, massive Federal enterprises and a burgeoning innovation community right in our backyard. Read the Dean's Welcome News at Smith Mental Health Resource App Goes From Win to Win at 2022 Pitch Dingman Competition Flag Suit Guy’s Colorful Story 3 Smith Alums Named to Forbes’ 30 Under 30 Lists View More Smith News Events at Smith Info Session Virtual Flex MBA Information Session Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 PM EDT View Event Virtual Flex MBA Information Session Info Session Virtual EMBA Information Session Tuesday, June 14, 2022 12:00 PM EDT View Event Virtual EMBA Information Session Academic Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Conference Friday, June 17, 2022 9:00 AM EDT View Event Journal of Accounting and Public Policy Conference View Full Calendar Contact Us Contact the Undergraduate Program Office or call 301-405-2286. Contact MBA/MS Admissions (FTMBA@umd.edu or SmithMasters@umd.edu) for admissions related questions. Contact the Master's Programs Office or call 301-405-9565. Contact Smith Operations for questions about facilities for all locations. Visit 4Maryland for the most updated COVID-19 information for the University of Maryland. Programs Business Master's PhD Plus 1 Undergraduate Programs Executive Education Executive MBA Flex MBA Full-Time MBA Online MBA About About Maryland Smith Academic Departments Administrative Offices Centers of Excellence Diversity and Inclusion Maryland Smith Directory Program Offerings Info For Corporate Partners Faculty and Staff Recruiters Students Maryland Smith Van Munching Hall, College Park, Md. Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Visit our LinkedIn page Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Back to Top