Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni College of Arts and Sciences Political Science 101 Gowen Hall 206-543-2780 Website Faculty Website polisci@uw.edu The Political Science Department has a long history of teaching and research excellence reflecting our commitment to the study of politics and policy. The faculty features internationally renowned scholars who conduct path breaking and influential research. Politics and government are important and omnipresent in everyday life. From coursework to internships to research, the department provides undergraduates with a wide range of opportunities for hands-on learning, and our Writing Center is an important source of individualized help. Our Ph.D. program provides a supportive environment for students conducting a wide range of original research and provides both rigorous methodological training and deep knowledge of the discipline. Students take on large and important questions that often cross traditional subfield boundaries and employ multiple research methods. Our excellent job placement record is an important indicator of the success of our program. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Political Science Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: International Security Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: Political Economy Program of Study: Minor: Political Science Minor in Political Science Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Political Science) Doctor Of Philosophy (Political Science) Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Political Science) Master Of Arts (Political Science) Undergraduate Programs Political Science 215 Smith Hall 206-543-1824 polsadvc@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Political Science Program Overview Political science is the study of power and how political institutions and individuals engage in the public realm. In the major students explore concepts like freedom and justice; governmental structures; how law and courts function; how economics affects political behavior; international conflict and cooperation; media; and how traits like race, gender, and class are political and shape identity, institutions and policy. With guidance from outstanding faculty, students develop valuable analytical, critical thinking, research and communication skills. As they read, write and debate they learn to evaluate complicated issues and communicate effectively on controversial topics. Many graduates work in analytical, diplomatic, communications, administrative, and policy positions in government, business, education, and non-profits in the U.S. and abroad. Typical graduate degrees are the MA/PhD in political science plus law, public policy/administration, international affairs, and business. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: International Security Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: Political Economy Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Courses that develop writing skills and breadth of knowledge. Introductory statistics. Admission Requirements Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA Three introductory political science courses (15 credits) with a minimum 2.0 grade in each from the following: POL S 101, POL S 201, POL S 202, POL S 203, POL S 204, POL S 205 Students are admitted all quarters. Applications are due the second Friday of each quarter. Applications and additional information available from advisers in 215 Smith and on the Political Science Department website. Applicants who meet the stated requirements are admitted in time to register for the following quarter as majors. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science Credential Overview Students have the opportunity to explore four different fields: Political Theory: Critical examination of values such as freedom, justice, democracy, and legitimacy using texts from ancient to contemporary writers. American Politics: Study of Congress and the presidency, media, law, the Constitution, civil liberty, race and ethnic politics. Comparative Politics: Comparative investigation of governments, ideologies, development, and in-depth study of specific regions such as China, the Middle East and Latin America. International Relations: Historical and theoretical approaches to study war and other conflicts, trade, human rights, globalization. The major also features internships, including a quarter-long program with the Washington State Legislature in Olympia, an Honors Program, faculty-led talks on current issues, and two student organizations: the Political Science Student Organization (PSSO) and Pi Sigma Alpha, the Political Science Honors Society. Completion Requirements 50 credits Introductory Requirement (15 credits): three courses from POL S 101, POL S 201, POL S 202, POL S 203, POL S 204, POL S 205 Field Requirement (15 credits): one course numbered POL S 210 or above in three different fields of political science chosen from political theory, comparative politics, international relations, American politics, and research methods, with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each Electives (20 credits): Four courses numbered POL S 210 or above with a minimum 2.0 grade in each Additional requirements (if applicable) specified below GPA Requirement: Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in political science courses at graduation and minimum 2.0 grade in each political science course taken to fulfill requirements for the major Transfer and postbaccalaureate students must meet all the above requirements and complete a minimum of 10 political science credits numbered 210 or above through the UW. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: International Security Credential Overview The study of international security focuses on the relationship between politics and security, and specifically on the causes of war and the use and control of force: threats, promises, and the tactics, techniques, and ethics of violence. It teaches the theories and the historical context for understanding contemporary security issues. The International Security Option gives students the opportunity to concentrate most of their coursework in this field. The option draws from courses in Political Science and other departments such as International Studies and History. Topics of study include war, terrorism, foreign policy of the U.S. and other nations, the military, weapons of mass destruction, and human rights. Completion Requirements 50 credits Introductory Requirement (15 credits): three courses from POL S 101, POL S 201, POL S 202, POL S 203, POL S 204, POL S 205 Field Requirement (15 credits): one course numbered POL S 210 or above in three different fields of political science chosen from political theory, comparative politics, international relations, American politics, and research methods, with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each Electives (20 credits): Four courses numbered POL S 210 or above with a minimum 2.0 grade in each Additional requirements (if applicable) specified below GPA Requirement: Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in political science courses at graduation and minimum 2.0 grade in each political science course taken to fulfill requirements for the major Transfer and postbaccalaureate students must meet all the above requirements and complete a minimum of 10 political science credits numbered 210 or above through the UW. Additional Completion Requirements Option specific credits (45 credits) POL S 203, POL S 321, POL S 407 (15 credits) 30 additional credits from an approved list of courses maintained in the department. At least 15 elective credits must be at the 300- or 400- level. Option coursework is completed in addition to the requirements of the major, however, up to 25 credits from the option may also fulfill requirements for the political science major. A list of recommended coursework is available. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Political Science: Political Economy Credential Overview Political economy is an interdisciplinary field that focuses on the relationship between politics and economics. It involves the application of economic theory to the analysis of non-market behavior and examination of the interplay between governmental and economic institutions. It teaches the use of theoretical tools for analyzing contemporary problems. The Political Economy Option gives students the opportunity to concentrate most of their coursework in this field. The option draws from courses in Political Science and other departments such as Economics, International Studies, and Geography. Areas of study include rational choice theory, the international economic system, development, trade, labor, and global crime and corruption. Some courses focus on the political economy of a specific area such as Scandinavia, Latin America, and Africa. Completion Requirements 50 credits Introductory Requirement (15 credits): three courses from POL S 101, POL S 201, POL S 202, POL S 203, POL S 204, POL S 205 Field Requirement (15 credits): one course numbered POL S 210 or above in three different fields of political science chosen from political theory, comparative politics, international relations, American politics, and research methods, with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each Electives (20 credits): Four courses numbered POL S 210 or above with a minimum 2.0 grade in each Additional requirements (if applicable) specified below GPA Requirement: Minimum 2.25 cumulative GPA in political science courses at graduation and minimum 2.0 grade in each political science course taken to fulfill requirements for the major Transfer and postbaccalaureate students must meet all the above requirements and complete a minimum of 10 political science credits numbered 210 or above through the UW. Additional Completion Requirements Students who wish to pursue this option should consult a political science adviser. A list of recommended coursework is available. Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Political Science Program Overview The Political Science Department offers a minor in political science. Students of political science study power. They learn social science methods to understand how individuals, groups, institutions, governments, and nations function and relate to one another, within nations and internationally, theoretically and in practice. Students learn to think critically as they evaluate conflicting claims about human nature, ideology, and what political actors do and should do. Courses in political science help students develop sought-after analytical skills, including how to sort conflicting information about complex issues, how to understand and apply theories, how to analyze data, and how to write about and present effective arguments. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Political Science Minor in Political Science Credential Overview Through the minor students have the opportunity to explore coursework in any of four different fields: Political Theory: Critical examination of values such as freedom, justice, democracy, and legitimacy using texts from ancient to contemporary writers. American Politics: Study of Congress and the presidency, media, law, the Constitution, civil liberty, race and ethnic politics. Comparative Politics: Comparative investigation of governments, ideologies, development, and in-depth study of specific regions such as China, the Middle East and Latin America. International Relations: Historical and theoretical approaches to study war and other conflicts, trade, human rights, globalization. Completion Requirements 30 credits One introductory course chosen from POL S 101, POL S 201, POL S 202, POL S 203, POL S 204, or POL S 205 25 elective credits numbered POL S 210 and above. (Internship and independent study courses such as POL S 496, POL S 498, POL S 499 do not count toward the minor) Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor Minimum 15 credits for the minor completed in residence through the UW Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The study of political science arms students with substantive knowledge of the discipline, including its concepts and theories. It also prepares them to be knowledgeable and active citizens. Through their study, students develop critical thinking, analytical, research, writing, interpersonal, and communication skills. Graduates of political science pursue careers in many fields, including government (federal, state, and local), business, trade, public service (including non-governmental and international organizations), law, journalism, and teaching. Instructional and Research Facilities: Political Science Laboratory: This facility with 25 computer stations, functions as a computer classroom and also as a general laboratory. Center for Social Science Computation and Research maintains an extensive data archive and offers many statistical and software consulting services. Political Science/Jackson School/Law, Societies, and Justice/Comparative History of Ideas Writing Center: The Writing Center is staffed by peer tutors and provides free help to students seeking feedback about their writing. The Writing Center director works with instructors to design workshops to help students with assignments. The Department of Political Science is affiliated with a number of research centers: The Center for American Politics and Public Policy is a focal point for the study of politics and policy processes in the United States. Research relates to public policy processes, including issues of agenda setting, decision making, implementation, quantitative and qualitative measures of policy change, and the role of ideas and dialogue in policy change. Policy arenas include education reform, health care, environmental regulation, and building code enforcement. The Center for Communication and Civic Engagement investigates how innovative communication can improve the quality of civic life. The center's primary focus is to understand how new information technologies can supplement more traditional forms of communication to facilitate civic engagement. The University of Washington's Institute for the Study of Ethnicity, Race, and Sexuality is an interdisciplinary research center dedicated to bringing the tools of contemporary social science inquiry to the careful examination of issues of social, economic, and political exclusion and disadvantage of marginalized minority populations in the United States, and their potential solutions. Harry Bridges Center for Labor Studies promotes the study of labor as a central concern in higher education and focuses on labor's contribution to society - locally, nationally, and worldwide. The center supports research, teaching, and community outreach. The Comparative Law and Society Studies Center is committed to promoting interdisciplinary research and teaching as well as community service regarding law, justice, and human rights throughout the world. European Union Center promotes the study of the European Union and trans-Atlantic relations. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The department offers three internship programs that range from part-time to full-time programs. Students may work in local agencies (POL S 496), in the state legislature (POL S 497), and in Washington, D.C. (POL S 498). Listings of local internships and applications are available in 215 Smith. The Washington State Legislative Internship Program is a winter-quarter program in Olympia and is open to students from all majors. Students earn 15 credits for the internship and attend a class taught by a political science faculty member. Applications are available from departmental advisers in 215 Smith and are due by the end of October. Students in all majors may apply for The Washington Center, a comprehensive internship program that places students in Washington, D.C. Students earn 15 credits for the internship. Additional information is available from departmental advisers in 215 Smith. Department Scholarships: Hugh Bone Scholarship: The endowed Hugh A. Bone Scholarship was established by the Department of Political Science in 1986 to recognize Professor Bone, a former department chair, and to continue his commitment to a "participative citizenry." Professor Bone founded the Washington State Legislative Internship Program and many students who studied with him continue active political lives because of his stewardship and interest. The scholarship was established in his name to help students with financial need study and intern away from the UW-Seattle campus. Agnes C. Nelson Memorial Scholarship: The departments of Political Science and Economics make annual full-tuition awards to students who demonstrate interest in the interrelationship of politics and economics and who meet financial eligibility requirements. To apply for the scholarship, students must have completed a minimum 25 credits in political science and economics with at least 10 credits in each discipline. Deadlines are posted early in spring quarter. Department Awards The Robert A. Dahl Award: The Department of Political Science recognizes an outstanding graduating senior with the Robert A. Dahl Award. To be eligible for consideration, a student must demonstrate scholarship excellence as well as interest in political science as a discipline. Daniel C. Lev Award: The Department of Political Science created this award to recognize the contribution of Professor Dan Lev to the department's Honors program. The award recognizes an exceptional senior Honors thesis. Sharon S. Redeker Award for Public Service: The Department of Political Science created this award in honor of Sharon Redeker, who served for many years as the department's Director of Academic Services. This award recognizes the exceptional public service of a political science senior while at the UW. Student Organizations/Associations: Pi Sigma Alpha (Political Science Honor Society), Phi Alpha Delta (pre-law fraternity). See adviser for details. Graduate Programs Political Science 206-543-1898 polsgrad@uw.edu Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Political Science) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Political Science) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Political Science) Completion Requirements 92 credits Required Methods Courses (15 credits): POL S 500, POL S 501, POL S 503, or any 400 or 500 graduate level Qualitative Methods course. Required Core Courses (10 credits): POL S 505, POL S 509, POL S 521, POL S 550 Elective Courses (To meet required total) Approved elective courses 400 level or above. Elective courses from at least one General field. (These include: American politics, political theory, comparative politics or international relations). Elective courses from two additional fields. Another General field Specialized field (Public law, political communication, political economy, political methodology, minority and race politics) Doctoral Dissertation (27 credits): POL S 800 Exams: Written Comprehensive exams in three fields, or two fields if political methodology is a chosen field. Students also must past an Oral exam. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Political Science) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Arts (Political Science) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Arts (Political Science) Completion Requirements 40 credits Required Methods Courses (15 credits) POL S 500, POL S 501, POL S 503, or any 400 or 500 graduate level Qualitative Methods course. Required Core Courses (10 credits) POL S 505, POL S 509, POL S 521, POL S 550 Elective Courses (15 credits): Any approved course numbered 400 level or above while in graduate student status at the UW. MA Paper: Student must write an MA paper of publishable length and this must be accepted and passed by the student's advisers before earning the MA degree. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA