Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>Services>Scope of Service Scope of Service Baylor University Counseling Center The following outlines the Counseling Center’s scope of service, including services provided and examples of situations that may warrant a transition to a higher level of care or an off-campus provider. As a university mental health service, Baylor University Counseling Center is equipped to meet a range of unique needs presented by college students. Committed to delivering quality care, the professionals at Baylor University Counseling Center provide a range of short-term mental health services to undergraduate and graduate students. The Counseling Center staff cares about the wellbeing of every Baylor student. All students are welcome to walk into the Counseling Center for an initial assessment to discuss their concerns with a staff member. Baylor University Counseling Center provides a wide range of therapeutic interventions for Baylor students. When a student’s needs require a more intensive level of care, Baylor University Counseling Center partners with the student to transition to resources within the community. Situations that may require a transition of care include: A need, or request, to be seen more than once a week for individual therapy. A need, or request, for uninterrupted individual services from semester to semester. A need, or request, for a treatment modality not provided by BUCC staff. A need, or request, to be seen differently than what is clinically recommended. Individuals who have demonstrated symptom reduction and have met initial treatment goals but desire on-going maintenance support. An indication that short-term therapy would be detrimental or not the optimal treatment for a student. The inability or unwillingness to develop specific short-term therapy goals. Non-compliance with treatment recommendations, including regular session attendance. The presence of one or more of the following, such that the best treatment would be an intensive outpatient program (IOP) or higher level of care: Alcohol and Other Drug Addiction Eating disorders Chronic thoughts and/or attempts of self-injury and/or suicide A request for: Psychological testing or evaluations to attain accommodations through the Office of Access and Learning Accommodations (OALA) Documentation for an emotional support animal Baylor University Counseling Center is well connected with resources on Baylor’s campus and in the Waco community, and the staff works with students to determine the most effective levels of care for their needs. Our goal is to identify the needs of our students and connect them to the appropriate service. Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health