Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Center for Health Informatics Academics Master of Science in Health Informatics Curriculum Admission criteria How to Apply Tuition and Fees Meet the Team Health Informatics Certificate Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU Center for Health Informatics Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU Center for Health Informatics Academics Center for Health Informatics Academics Academics Master of Science in Health Informatics Curriculum Admission criteria How to Apply Tuition and Fees Meet the Team Health Informatics Certificate Projects Services About About Program Mission Meet the Team Contact Us Master of Science in Health Informatics KU Health Informatics graduates create, implement, and evaluate systems supporting health care functions; provide data-driven solutions; and lead change in health informatics processes. Career Vision KU's CAHIIM-accredited master's degree program prepares graduates for entry- and mid-level positions in hospitals, electronic health record companies, public health organizations and organizations specializing in knowledge management. Professional progress isn't on hold until after graduation, Our graduates report positive professional outcomes during the program, too. In a survey, nearly half of our graduates (45%) said they had a promotion, salary increase or career move during the program. After graduation, that number increased to 77%. Information Sessions Join us online! These 20-minute sessions will give you an overview of applied health informatics, our certificate and master’s programs, and admission requirements. Tuesday, June 21 at 7:00-7:30 CT Friday, July 22 at 12:00-12:30 CT Tuesday, August 16 at 7:00-7:30 CT These are online events. Be sure to reserve your spot by emailing HealthInformatics@kumc.edu. Program Accreditation KU’s Health Informatics master’s degree program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) and meets the standards set by the American Medical Informatics Association® (AMIA®). 100% of 2020-2021 MSHI graduates were employed upon graduation 100% of students who started in 2020-2021 remain in the MSHI program 100% of MSHI students graduating in academic year 2020-2021 finished in less than 4 years. The KU Center for Health Informatics is dedicated to the advancement of health informatics education and is a proud member of the AMIA Academic Forum. Interprofessional Advantage Students in our program come from varied backgrounds and contribute a wide range of experiences. Although previous health care experience is preferred, it is not required. Just as students bring a breadth of experiences to the program so, too, do our faculty. Program Format Three cores and one selected focus area comprise this 40 credit-hour program of study. All students complete health informatics, leadership and research core courses (31 credit hours), and they complete 9 credit hours within one of the following focus areas: clinical, health policy and management, public health or project management. Exploring Focus Areas Clinical Discipline-specific courses available to students with a strong health care background in patient care settings. Students choosing this focus area can earn the master’s degree entirely online. Health Policy & Management Business and management courses for students planning a career in information systems management and leadership. Some courses are offered online, while others occur on the University of Kansas Medical Center campus in Kansas City, Kansas. Public Health Concepts related to epidemiology, public health data management, health communications and the application of these methods to reduce health disparities. Some courses are offered online, while others occur on the University of Kansas Medical Center campus in Kansas City, Kansas. Project Management Courses provide a broadly applicable skill set for leading cross-functional teams in the delivery of successful projects. Project management courses are offered online and on the University of Kansas Edwards campus in Overland Park, Kansas. After completing this track and the Knowledge Management course (IPHI 854), students earn the Graduate Certificate in Project Management from KU. Alumna spotlight Tasneem Daud, Master of Science in Health Informatics Alumna Tasneem Daud, M.S. '18, said she enjoyed her time as a Jayhawk and loved the opportunity to use her own work experience in her coursework. Daud said, "We were in groups that represented a wide variety of specialties. We had people that were clinical, technical, veterans, in management and we really learned a lot from each other, and I loved that." Daud, a team lead at Cerner Corporation, works on the Veterans Affairs projects. She finds her work rewarding and urges others to study health informatics. "You really can't go wrong with informatics. We are living in the age of information, and it doesn't matter if you are working for a hospital, an IT company or even a mom-and-pop store, everybody digests information," Daud said. "I would say go give informatics a chance. Go through the process with the perspective of, 'Whatever I'm passionate about, how can I use the skills in this program?' and then apply it to that area." Daud's advice to students is to, "stick with it. There are some parts of the program that are more challenging. The information, the skills, the knowledge gained is absolutely worth it." Curriculum Admission criteria How to Apply Tuition and Fees Meet the Team The Health Informatics accreditor of the University of Kansas is the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). The College’s accreditation for the master’s degree in Health Informatics has been reaffirmed through 2030. All inquiries about the program’s accreditation status should be directed by mail to CAHIIM, 200 East Randolph Street, Suite 5100, Chicago, IL, 60601; by phone at (312) 235-3255; or by email at info@cahiim.org. KU Center for Health Informatics KU Center for Health Informatics 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Mailstop 4043 Kansas City, KS 66160 913-588-1619 soninfo@kumc.edu Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.