Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Auxiliary Services Auxiliary Services Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Dining Menu Main Nav What's Open? Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Sustainability Culinary Innovation Employment FAQs Feedback Events Wellness Meal Plans Overview Flex Dining Plans Dining Calculator Related Links Meal Plan FAQs Events & Specials Locations & Menus Overview What's Open? Lower Live Carney's Café 129 Chocolate Bar CoRo Café & Market Eagle's Nest Hillside Café Legal Grounds Lyons Hall Stuart Dining Hall The Bean Counter The Loft at Addie's Faculty Dining Room Faculty Dining Room Reservations BC Test Kitchen BC After Dark The Market Concessions Tully Cafe Related Links Events & Specials Sustainability Order Food & Gifts Overview GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn Close Directory A to Z Listing Search All Departments in Auxiliary Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Order Food & Gifts GET Mobile Ordering Order Food & Gifts GET Mobile Ordering Dining to Go BC Gifts Heights Catering Luxury Boxes & Lower Lawn GET Mobile Ordering Order Ahead Skip the Line Pick Up at Location Download the GET Mobile app and order food and beverages at Tully Cafe, CoRo Café, The Market, Hillside Café, Legal Grounds, and Café 129. Your order will be ready for pick-up at your convenience. Pay with Dining Bucks, Flex Dollars, or a credit card. Please note: Not all menu items are available for online purchase through GET. Google Play App Store How to download the GET app How to order For your mobile device Download the app on the App Store or Google Play Select Boston College from the list of colleges (you only have to do this once!) Log in with your BC username/password Select “GET Food” from the menu For your desktop Go to Get.cbord.com/bostoncollege Click on “Click here to login” Log in with your BC username/password Select “GET Food” from the top of the screen How to Order Select a merchant from the list of available merchants including Tully Cafe, Hillside Cafe, The Market, CoRo Cafe, Legal Grounds, Addie's, and Café 129. Select either “Now” or “Later” for pick up options Later will require you to select a date and time up to 6 days ahead Menus for ‘now’ and ‘later’ will correlate to what’s on the menu for that day Order your food and check out selecting either an approved meal plan or credit card. You’ll get a confirmation on your device and an email. Be sure to select a payment plan from the dropdown list If you do not get a confirmation email, your order wasn't placed Pick up your order at the merchant. Look for the GET Food pick up sign at each location. GET Food FAQs Can I use Credit Cards (including PCards)? YES! To add a credit card to your account you’ll need to do the following: Mobile App: Log into GET In the upper right click the tripple bars Select settings Select Credit Cards Select Add Credit Cards Add your card information as instructed (your information is secure in the GET app) Website: Log into get.cbord.com/bostoncollege From the Overview page (first page) on the right select "Add Credit Card" Add your card information as instructed (your information is secure in the GET app) Do I have a dining plan I can use? Dining Plans that are available for use at GET Food locations will appear on the GET Funds page, along with the current balance for those plans. To see your plans and balances: Mobile App: Log into the app Select "GET Funds" Select "My Accounts" Plans that are available will show up on the next screen. Website: Log into get.cbord.com/bostoncollege The plans available will show up on the main page along with their balance Where can I use GET Food? Get Food is available at the following locations during regular business hours: Tully Cafe, Hillside Cafe, The Market, CoRo Cafe, Legal Grounds, Addie's, and Café 129 When can I use GET Food? GET Food is always on, however orders can only be placed for pick up or delivery during the regular business hours....so feel free to order a Latte at 3 AM, but you can't pick it up until morning! How do I order food? Ordering food with GET Food is fast and easy. Mobile Device: Log into the app Select GET Food Select the location Select either Now (which takes about 20 minutes) or Later (up to 5 days away) Click "Continue" at the bottom of the screen Select items from the categories on the screen Build items like deli sandwiches by choosing bread meat, cheese and toppings Add notes at the bottom of the screen if needed Click "Add To Order" at the bottom Repeat as needed When ready click "View Order" at the bottom After reviewing your order click "Checkout" at the bottom Select your payment method in the middle of the screen and click "Checkout" one more time Check for your email conifrmation Website: Log onto get.cbord.com/bostoncollege Select GET Food at the top Select your dining location Select either Now (which takes about 20 minutes) or Later (up to 5 days away) Select items from the categories on the screen Build items like deli sandwiches by choosing meat, bread, cheese and toppings Add notes at the bottom Repeat as needed When you are ready select "Check Out" on the right side (in your shopping cart) Select your payment type Click "Place My Order!" Check for your email confirmation Can I edit or cancel my order once placed? Currently you can cancel orders placed in advance, however there is no option for editing them. Orders placed for "Now" can't be edited or canceled as they are sent to the kitchen and produced as quickly as possible. Can I delete items in my shopping cart Yes To do this from and iOS device, swipe towards the left to have the "delete" button show up. To do this from an android device, hold down on the item for the "delete" button to appear. You can click on the "x" in the shopping cart from a web browser to remove items before heading to check out. How do I know my food is ready? Orders are generally ready at their due time (either about 10 minutes from when you ordered or at your specified time. Additionally you will receive an email when your order is ready to pick up, and you will also be notified via a push notification on your phone (if you registered your cell phone in GET AND if you have turned notifications on for the GET app). Where do I pick up my food? Hillside Cafe and Tully Cafe: All orders from GET (including just coffee drinks) can be picked up at the pickup lockers. The Market, CoRo Cafe, Addie's, and Café 129: All orders are ready to be picked up at the cashier station. There's something wrong, what do I do? While we want every order to be perfect in every way, sometimes things just don't work out that way. If you are having a problem with your order, or no one has your order, or even if you have a question it's best to ask to speak to the manager on duty. There's always someone there who can help. Can I order delivery? No. Delivery is not offered on campus. Why can't I use my mandatory meal plan with GET Food? GET food, which is offered to the BC community as a premium service, does not follow with the core dining philosopy that interacting with the dining staff, dining in a communal facility and being with your peers is an important part of the education which happens outside of the classroom on a college campus. What should I do if I can't get the app to open? CBORD has released GET Mobile V4.9.27 Patch to iOS and Android on Thursday September 16th for Apple and Google devices. The main purpose of this patch release is to correct the potential stuck on blue screen issue. GET users may need to update their settings for this new version. Try to uninstall/reinstall the app for iOS or perform an app clear cache for Android users to resolve the issue. Quick Links What's Open? Today's Menu Order Food & Gifts Catering Add Funds to Dining Plan Back To Top Back To Top Contact BC Dining 129 Lake Street 3rd Floor Boston MA 02135 617-552-2263 bcdining@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram About Wellness Meal Plans Locations & Menus Order Food & Gifts Events & Specials Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College