Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Population Health Menu Home About Overview Leadership What is population health? Hans Rosling Center Evaluation Contact us Strategic areas Interdisciplinary collaboration Climate change and its human impacts Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief Violence and injury prevention Social innovation and entrepreneurship COVID-19 COVID-19 Education Undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Graduate Certificate in Humanitarian Response Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training Resources Population health research at the UW Collaboration support Grant application support Climate change experts Disaster and humanitarian experts Other experts Mobile and digital population health Social innovation and entrepreneurship Funding and awards News Latest news and updates Subscribe Journal articles Media coverage Get involved Give Partner Volunteer Events Home Population Health Education and training Applied Research Fellowship Applied Research Fellowship Close Menu Home Education and training Undergraduate courses Bothell undergraduate courses Seattle undergraduate courses Tacoma undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Archived Let’s Talk Pop Health events Graduate Certificate in International Humanitarian Response Certificate overview Learning objectives Required coursework Admissions process Submit an application Contact us Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training The Population Health Applied Research Fellowship Program supports multidisciplinary teams of students to work on real-world population health challenges. Projects are sourced from external clients who play an important role in structuring project deliverables. The Population Health Applied Research Fellowship team will consist of three graduate students and two undergraduates, with supervision by a faculty expert. The project team receives training in research skills and data collection, analysis and presentation to deliver a work product that meets the external client’s needs. This program is run in partnership with the University of Washington Center for Studies in Demography & Ecology (CSDE). Summer 2022 project King County has experienced dramatic changes in the size, the geographic distribution, and the demographic makeup of its population over the past decade. Economic growth and migration influxes have driven these changes, which have led to corresponding increases in property values and rental rates. For many, this has led to financial precarity as rents and mortgages make up a larger portion of income. For some, this has led to housing insecurity or homelessness. As a result, understanding the relationship between population growth, housing demand, and housing supply is crucial as King County works to address its housing crisis. The Summer 2022 Population Health Applied Research Project team will work closely with the King County demographer and the King County’s Assessor’s Office to summarize trends in housing supply by location and housing type. The team will build on work of previous fellows to explore how housing supply changes relate to changes in population and the distribution of renter-occupied and owner-occupied households of different sizes over this period of unprecedented growth. Understanding indicator trends across time and space, and how those associated trends vary across age, race and space, can offer useful insights for policymakers and future resource allocations. The team’s work will include cleaning and synthesizing longitudinal records of property and land parcels from the King County Assessor’s Office to understand changes in indicators of housing supply, such as number of units, number of bedrooms and building type, over time and the way those changes vary across space. The team will then integrate this information into an existing mapping product containing previously produced population projections by age, sex and race and estimates of household size by renter and owner status. Once combined, this resource will make it much easier to visualize the changes in the geographic distribution of population, household size, and household stock alongside projections of future growth, which will offer insights to county policy makers as they continue to address King County’s housing needs. Student eligibility Graduate students at the master’s and doctoral levels and professional students from all UW schools and colleges are eligible to apply. Applicants must be enrolled in a degree-granting program at any UW campus (Seattle, Tacoma and Bothell) and not graduating in June. All undergraduate students with junior- or senior-level status who are enrolled in a UW degree-granting program at any UW campus and will not be graduating in June are eligible to apply. Students are currently expected to be available for in-person meetings during the fellowship. Compensation Graduate students will be paid an hourly Graduate Research Student Assistant summer rate for 20 hours/week over a period of 10 weeks. The undergraduate students will be paid an hourly rate of $20 for 19.5 hours/week for 10 weeks. Timeline Applications are due by 11:59 p.m. Friday, April 8, 2022. Applicants will be notified whether they are invited to interview for the fellowship positions the week of April 11, 2022. Interviews will take place the week of April 18, 2022. Candidates will be notified about fellowship offers by late April, 2022. Fellowships are for a 10-week period over the summer, starting June 21, 2022 and ending August 26, 2022. Application instructions All applicants must submit the following documents: Recent CV or resume Unofficial transcript One- to two-page cover letter outlining why you are interested in the fellowship program and how your skills will enable you to contribute to the success of the project One statement of support from a faculty member or other mentor who can provide examples of your research abilities, independent and professional approach to learning, and your collaborative and communicative skills. Please combine the CV/resume, transcript, and cover letter into a single .pdf file and submit this file via email to pophlth@uw.edu. The subject line of the email should be, “Applied Research Fellowship. Your statement of support must be emailed to pophlth@uw.edu directly by the person you are requesting this statement from. The subject line of the email should be, “Applied Research Fellowship” and reference your name. Review criteria Applications will be reviewed by representatives of the Population Health Initiative and the Center for Studies in Demography & Ecology. Candidates will be notified whether they have been selected to interview for the fellowship according to the published timeline. Interviews with select candidates will be scheduled based on the dates listed in the timeline. Interviews will be for approximately 30 minutes, and the panel will consist of faculty and staff from the Population Health Initiative, the Center for Studies in Demography & Ecology and other departments or external partners as relevant. Applicants will be selected based on the following criteria: Demonstrated technical skills in research methods, data entry, database management, data collection and/or analysis Some knowledge about, or experience working on, issues of social inequality, race, health or program evaluations Academic performance to date Strong interpersonal and communication skills Ability to work well within in a team environment Questions Please contact pophlth@uw.edu with questions regarding this fellowship program. Past Fellows View the previous cohorts, projects and project results for past summers. Summer 2019 Announcement of cohort and project Announcement of final project results Summer 2020 Announcement of cohort and project Announcement of final project results Summer 2021 Announcement of cohort and project Announcement of final project results Home Education and training Undergraduate courses Bothell undergraduate courses Seattle undergraduate courses Tacoma undergraduate courses Let’s Talk Pop Health Archived Let’s Talk Pop Health events Graduate Certificate in International Humanitarian Response Certificate overview Learning objectives Required coursework Admissions process Submit an application Contact us Applied Research Fellowship Social Entrepreneurship Fellowship Pop Health Moments Other education and training What is population health? Population health is a broad concept encompassing not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also the intersecting and overlapping factors that influence health. Learn more Population Health Twitter Tweets by UW_PHI Please enable JavaScript to view this widget. Events calendar University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA