Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Career Exploration Home Career Clusters Career Exploration Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Embark on Your Career Journey Career exploration is an exciting process that is fueled by curiosity, reflection, and imagination. Before you make decisions regarding career, we encourage you to invest time into learning more about yourself. By understanding what gives you joy, what you are good at, and what you can offer the world, you will be prepared to make informed decisions as you move forward in your career. The resources below will help you get started. Meet Your Career Coaches Our specialized exploration career coaches are here to help you get started, work through feelings of doubt, talk through your ideas, and connect with specialized industry resources when you are ready. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Julianne Smith Hannah Fatemi Tara Raposa This cluster may be for you if: You are undecided on your career path and curious to learn about career clusters/industries You have a desire to identify your skills and interests You seek to gain information and experiences to inform your career journey If you have preconceptions or doubts that are preventing you from exploring careers in certain fields, we encourage you to make an appointment. Let’s dig deeper into these beliefs and engage in a meaningful conversation together. Featured Resource to Explore Careers Focus 2 Career is a major and career exploration platform that will guide you through a series of self assessments. Your assessment results are then matched to career and BC-specific major options. To Access: Complete the form, new users will be required to enter the access code: Eagles. Focus 2 Career Wondering Where to Begin? Start with "The Three Questions" What Brings You Joy? The first step in career exploration is looking inward to identify your values and interests. What you spend your time doing and what topics you are frequently curious about are good starting points. Take a self-assessment, participate in an immersive program, or utilize online tools to discover what sparks your interest. What Are You Good At? The second step of career exploration is determining what skills you have to bring to the world of work. Every job, internship, classroom experience, and opportunity has helped you to develop skills. Understanding more about yourself and your personality can help you to think about potential occupations and work environments. What Does the World Need You to Be? Once you better understand your interests and skills, you can move on to the final step of identifying what potential careers may be a good fit for you. Take opportunities to learn about different careers by doing online research, talking to people working in jobs of interest, or participating in a job shadow or internship program. Resources to help you answer this question Focus2: A major and career exploration platform that will guide you through a series of self assessments. Your assessment results are then matched to career and BC-specific major options. To Access: Complete the form, new users will be required to enter the access code: Eagles. First Destination Data: A resource to learn what Boston College alumni are doing with their degrees to give you a sense of what’s possible. The interactive outcomes dashboard allows you to explore first destinations of graduates by school, major, industry, location, and more. Values Exercise: A worksheet to learn more about your personal values. Values are deeply held convictions that guide or influence the choices you make in life, including career decisions. Values are also self-motivators that indicate what you consider most important in your life. Your values are reflected in how you invest your time and the skills you choose to develop. Discover academic interests Experience co-curricular life Resources to help you answer this question CareerExplorer: A resource to help you discover how your interests, skills, personality and goals intersect. Get real-time recommendations on careers and industries to consider. Be sure to meet with a career coach to review your results and to determine next steps. 16personalities: A resource to help you identify your personality type. Your results can guide you as you reflect on how you relate to others, how you get your energy, how you receive and organize information, and how you make decisions. Resources to help you answer this question Firsthand (Formally Vault): Find out what it is like to work within an industry, a company, or a profession. View the Career Guides for up to date information on a variety of careers as well as interviewing strategies and job search tips. To gain access, please register for an account using your Boston College email address What Can I Do With This Major?: A resource to help show you what many people with specific majors go on to do for employment and what types of employers could potentially hire them. You will be surprised at the variety of career paths you could pursue. Occupational Outlook Handbook: A resource that can help you find career information on duties, education and training, pay, outlook and more for hundreds of occupations. If you are wondering what job titles actually mean or how to prepare for a career in a specific industry, this is an easy to navigate tool to help you. GoinGlobal: A resource for everything related to finding an international job or an internship. Browse Country and Global City Career Guides and read up on 450,000 employer profiles on companies in 196 countries, including the US. Our Programs to Help You Explore Endeavor For Sophomores and Juniors Endeavor provides you the opportunity to explore the fit of a few careers of interest by providing space to identify skills, network with alumni, and visit an organization within an industry. Alumni Job Shadow Program For Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors The job shadow program is an opportunity to shadow a BC alum to explore a field or job function of interest. Over the course of one day, you will gain valuable insight, make connections, and further discern how your skills, interests, and values translate to the workplace. Designing Your Career Course For Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors A one-credit hybrid course that provides you with structure to the career exploration and preparation process by guiding you through design thinking-inspired exercises. Embrace Your Career Exploration "Some advice to anyone of any age out there still exploring: Embrace it! Don’t fear it. Let it fuel you. Let it motivate you. Enjoy every second of this exploration phase because now is the time to ask all of the questions without having the answers. You’re allowed to be a little lost. You’re allowed to be a little uncertain. Relish it! Relish the uncertainty and instead of seeing it as something obstructive see it as something that opens up a whole world of possibilities." Nat Murcia, MCAS ’19 Read Blog From the Career Center Blog No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Summer Series: Looking to Explore this Summer Are you not feeling ready to step into a professional internship this summer? If experiencing something new and learning about March 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Summer Series: I’m About to Graduate and Haven’t Found a Post-Grad Job Yet Your time at Boston College is almost over and, despite your best efforts, you are still looking for your first March 23, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Summer Series: Looking for a Summer Internship Internships are a great opportunity for you to learn more about what you want to do and what you don’t March 23, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam No Summer Internship? No Problem! 5 Ways to Have a Productive Summer Beyond an Internship While internships are a great way to gain skills and explore a career field, many students seem to think that May 02, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Should I Disclose My Disability During a Job Search? Many students with a disability struggle with the question of disclosure during the job and internship search process. “Will disclosure April 25, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam How to Explore Cybersecurity Careers Cybersecurity is a rapidly growing industry that spans the government, business, law, engineering, and tech sectors. If you’re interested in April 11, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS View Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College