By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Apply What We Look For More from this Section Deadlines FAQ Application Mailing Addresses Early Decision Enrollment Options College-Specific Requirements AP/IB/CLEP Credits What We Look For You are probably wondering what it is that makes you stand out during the admissions process. At Syracuse University, you will be considered based on the following: Preparation and Purpose Your academic performance is a significant factor in our admissions decision, especially your senior year accomplishments. Your participation in honors and advanced placement courses and/or meaningful electives demonstrates your commitment to maximize your college experience. Educational Background Schools across the country differ in their curriculum, grading policies, and overall quality. Your school’s profile will be a guide when putting your course selections and grades in context. Standardized Test Performance Test optional note: “Given the extraordinary circumstances facing high school students and families due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SAT/ACT scores will not be required for students applying for Fall 2022, Fall 2023 or Spring 2024 admission. Students who are unable to submit test scores, or who choose not to, will not be disadvantaged and will remain eligible for merit scholarships. Please read the full details surrounding this update here. If you choose to submit your test scores, your SAT or ACT score will also be considered as part of your application (whichever is higher). If you are considering the Score Choice option for the SAT, please be aware that all of your test scores will be required. This works to your benefit—your application will be considered using the highest combination of your SAT scores. Both the old and new revised SAT will be accepted. If you take the new revised SAT, the essay is not required. If you take the ACT, the writing portion is not required. Syracuse University does not require or consider the SAT subject tests. Personality Grades are only part of our admissions equation. Your personal essay illustrates your goals, interests, experiences, and values. Though an interview is not mandatory, it is an ideal way to further personalize your application. The Opinion of Others An evaluation from your guidance counselor and two academic teacher recommendations give admissions representatives a sense of your unique gifts, capabilities, and accomplishments. These testimonials help to round out who you are as a student—and a person. Extracurricular Activities The Admissions Committee will review your after-school activities, volunteer work, or employment, to see how each illustrates your organizational and leadership skills, as well as your commitment to helping others. Special Talent Several programs at Syracuse University include a talent component, including art and design, architecture, drama, and music. Talent is evaluated by faculty members, and their evaluations are shared with the Admissions Committee. Strength of Character Syracuse University is looking for more than academically prepared students. Syracuse students innovate and take risks, they are people of integrity and good citizenship. You are a strong candidate if you strengthen and support those around you, even as you are working to develop yourself. The Selection Process Over 39,000 students applied for the fall 2021 semester for a first-year class of about 3,600 students. Each college has specific enrollment goals. When your application and materials are considered, difficult decisions must be made. They are not always a statement of your ability, but a matter of competition. Keep in mind that you can always indicate a second-choice college for admissions, and will be considered on a space-available basis. Next College-Specific Requirements Featured Stories 10 Tips to Demonstrate Your Interest in Syracuse University Many colleges and universities look at a student’s demonstrated interest, or the evidence they have taken steps to conduct research and connect with the institution, into account when reviewing applications. Related Pages First-Year Requirements If you are currently enrolled in or have graduated from an accredited secondary school, please apply as a first-year student. Transfer Requirements If you enrolled in an institution of higher education as a full-time student after graduating from secondary school and received graded credit in academic coursework, please apply as a transfer student. International Requirements You're considered an international student if you are not a U.S. citizen, if you are a dual citizen with the U.S., or if you are a permanent resident of the U.S. Request More Information Tell us a little about yourself and we’ll provide you with more information about attending Syracuse University. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy