HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation FACILITIES Facilities Homepage Fike Recreation Center Featuring Swann Fitness Center Douthit Hills Fitness Center Snow Family Outdoor Fitness and Wellness Complex Policies and Procedures Facility Hours Facility Counts Floor Plan FITNESS AND WELLNESS Group Fitness F45 Small Group Training Fitness Assessments Personal Training Wellness Zone INTRAMURAL SPORTS CORE CORE Homepage Register for a Trip Rent Outdoor Equipment Develop Your Skills Request a Custom Trip Apply for a Job Explore Spring Break Trips Explore Winter Break Trips Explore Trips for Incoming Students Contact Us CLUB SPORTS Club Sports Homepage Club Officer Resources Visiting Team Resources Custom Group Experience Campus Recreation's Custom Group Experience programs strive to create opportunities for engagement of student and community groups that foster a sense of empowerment and community. Programs and trips are designed to meet the goals and vision of the group. We provide custom group experiences that: Engage participants in adventure and fun Empower collaborative individuals to positively impact their communities around the world Incorporate outcome–based learning experiences that follow a "challenge of choice" philosophy for achieving individual and collective goals Modified Operations: Custom Group Experience Programs are currently operating under limited capacities and following all University safety guidelines related to COVID-19. At this time, we have limited in-person activities as well as virtual program options for your group. Some of the popular trip options are listed below. Please complete our Custom Group Experience intake form, and we will be happy to discuss options for your group experience, in more detail. Program Request: Interested groups should complete: Custom Group Experience Initial Intake Form Groups should submit an initial intake form at least 4 weeks prior to their desired program date. Based on the group's request, an agreement will be made to accommodate that participant count. If the group increases the amount of participants, they will be charged according to the per person rate for each additional participant. There is no guarantee that an increase will be possible once the Agreement has been signed. CORE Custom Experience Custom group experiences with Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education (CORE) provide trip leadership, equipment, transportation, logistical planning, food and more. Simply choose your activity, let us do the rest! Popular Trips Popular Trips Average Cost Kayaking and paddle boarding on Lake Hartwell $35 per person Mountain biking in the Clemson Experimental Forest or, SWU $30 per person Day hike at local trails $35 per person Group Whitewater Rafting $50 - $100 per person Bonfire at Snow Beach on Lake Hartwell *Two hours Minimum $160 per group Have another idea for your adventure? Just ask! CORE is happy to create a custom trip for you! For more information about all Clemson Outdoor Recreation and Education has to offer, visit the CORE website. Group Development Group Development programs may be created as an add–on to a custom group trip, group fitness class or may stand alone. These programs strive to create opportunities for engagement that foster a sense of empowerment and community. Our Group Development Facilitators will travel to your meeting space on or off campus or facilitate activities within Campus Recreation facility spaces. Popular Group Development activities may focus on: Communication Teamwork Trust Problem Solving Adaptability Leadership Group Development Program Menu: Program Length Program Length Average Cost Short day, 2 hour $15–$18 per person Half day, 4 hour $30–$36 per person Full day, 6 hour $45–$54 per person *Minimum of 8 participants is required. Fitness & Wellness Custom Experience Custom group experiences with Fitness & Wellness program may include private fitness classes of any format. Classes can be designed to focus on muscular endurance, power, agility, flexibility, or mindfulness. Classes and Workshops Classes and Workshops Average Cost Yoga/Meditation $60 for 60 minute class Dance/Fitness–Zumba, Werk It, WERQ $60 for 60 minute class Strength/Conditioning–HITT, Kickboxing, Solid COREange, Raise the Barre, Howard's Rock Bottom, Tiger Pump, TigerFIT $60 for 60 minute class Cycling–Cycling, Pedal & Pump, Cycling & Abs $60 for 60 minute class up to 35 people Functional Fitness–F45 $75 for 45 minute class up to 27 people Wellness Workshop $60 for 60 minute workshop *There is an additional $10 minimum fee for hosting fitness classes outside of Campus Recreation facility spaces. No wellness workshops are happening We are not currently offering WERQ, Solid COREange, Tiger Pump, or Howard's Rock Bottom *Other classes available upon request* For more information about everything Fitness & Wellness has to offer, visit the Fitness and Wellness website. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster