Toggle navigation Skip To Main Content University of Pittsburgh Calendar of Events Directory Help Use this to search the site. Toggle navigation About The School Covid-19 Response Visit PittPharmacy Dean's Message Mission, Vision, Values Organization Fast Facts Diversity and Inclusion Reports & Publications Pharmacy Museum Dean Reif's History of the School of Pharmacy Videos Location & Contact Apply PharmD Program Residency Program MS Program MS Thesis Program Master's in Pharmacy Business Administration PhD Program Educational Programs Doctor of Pharmacy Program Graduate Programs in Pharmaceutical Sciences Graduate Program in Pharmacy Business Administration Residency Program CE/Micro-credentials Fellowship Training Opportunities Research Drug Discovery & Development Drug Formulations & Delivery Biochemical Pharmacology Clinical Pharmaceutical Science Systems Pharmacology & Outcomes Science Pharmacogenetics Pharmacy Care Research Drug Abuse & Prevention Innovations Engaging Communities Community Leadership & Innovation in Practice Center Grace Lamsam Program for the Underserved Global Health Silver Scripts Script Your Future Patient Education Videos Alumni & Friends Spotlight on Alumni We Value Our Alumni Alumni Society Alumni Search Stay Engaged! Giving Back View Recording Read More Learn More Alumni Tour | Student Tour Learn More Recent Announcements: Student Society of Health-System Pharmacists Wins National Award for Outstanding Professional Development The University of Pittsburgh Student Society of Health-System Pharmacists (SSHP) chapter received a national award for Outstanding Professional Develo... [Read More] Pitt Pharmacy Ranks Second Nationwide in Residency Match Pitt Pharmacy students have placed second among schools of pharmacy in residency match rate after the first round of the American Society of Health-Sy... [Read More] Venkataramanan Recognized as HIREC Visiting Endowed Chair Raman Venkataramanan, Ph.D., FAAPS, has been recognized as the Hispanic in Research Capability (HIREC) Visiting Endowed Chair for the year 2020-2022. ... [Read More] Lowry Presents at AAHPM Annual Assembly Maria Lowry, PharmD (’15), BCPS, BCGP represented Pitt Pharmacy and UPMC Palliative and Supportive Institute at the American Academy of Hospice ... [Read More] Potoski Appointed to Emergency Medicine Pharmacy Specialty Council Pitt Pharmacy faculty member Brian Potoski, PharmD, (’99) was appointed by the Executive committee of the Board of Pharmacy Specialties (BPS) to... [Read More] Check out more news here Quick Links Dean Search Current Faculty, Staff, & Trainees Current PharmD Students Request Information on our Degree Programs COVID-19 Information In light of the shifting nature of the pandemic, the University of Pittsburgh is reinventing our operations to keep the Pitt community as safe and healthy as possible while maximizing our ability to carry out our mission. Visit the resource page coronavirus.pitt.edu frequently to learn about our planning to resume operations in the presence of this pandemic. This should be your “go-to” site for all of the latest information on our planning, and to find resources to assist you. University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy 3501 Terrace St Pittsburgh, PA 15261 412-624-5240 Privacy Policy × Search Pitt Pharmacy Close