COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Admissions: Incoming Freshmen Section Menu Undergraduate Admissions Apply Now Majors Tuition and Fees Visit Campus FAQ Admission Requirements Housing Scholarships Financial Aid Request Information Contact Admissions Stop Video Get information about Wichita State, personalized for your career goals.Request info If you're ready to build your ideal future, Wichita State is the place to do it. By combining a traditional college atmosphere with the resources, opportunities and experiences found in Kansas' largest city, WSU has everything you need to succeed in college and beyond. Apply Now Common App Visit Campus Degree programs to make you workforce ready At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it. This gives Shockers in every major the chance to work for employers in their areas of interest—gaining practical experience, a professional network, college credit and even a paycheck, all while still in school. Choose from 200+ programs Not an incoming freshman? Select your status below to get admission information tailored for you. Transfer student Adult learner International student Graduate student Military or veteran Housing Campus living puts you in the middle of all the action. Our three halls feature modern, clean and comfortable living—and quick access to everything campus offers. Student Life From 350+ annual on-campus events to hundreds of student clubs and organizations, getting involved at Wichita State is easy and fun. Shocker Value High quality + low price = tremendous value. Compare our tuition to state, regional and national peer research universities. Tuition, scholarships and financial aid Funding your high-quality Wichita State education is easy. Just get admitted, and if you’re eligible, we’ll send you an automatic scholarship offer. You could also qualify for some of the more than $100 million in other scholarships and financial aid we award each year. In addition, many of our out-of-state students qualify for in-state or reduced tuition. Tuition & fees Scholarships Financial aid Tuition discounts Shocker Value Net price calculator More admissions information Freshman admission requirements Freshmen are assured admission to Wichita State if they meet the following: 1. Have a cumulative 2.25 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale, OR 2. Achieve an ACT composite of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of 1060 (test optional for admission) And, if applicable, achieve a 2.0 GPA on all college credit taken in high school. Please note, if you do not meet the guaranteed admission requirements, you're still encouraged to apply. Your application will be reviewed individually. If you graduated from a non-accredited high school or were homeschooled, you must: Achieve an ACT of 21 or higher OR a minimum combined SAT ERW+M score of at least 1060, have a cumulative 2.25 or higher GPA on a 4.00 scale. If you enroll in college courses while in high school, you must also achieve a 2.00 GPA or higher in those courses. If you obtained your GED, you must: For GED tests from 2002-2013: Have a minimum score of 510 on each sub test and an overall score of 2550 to be admitted. For GED tests from 2014 and on: Have a minimum score of 150 on each sub test and an overall score of 680 to be admitted. Admission requirements Common App Wichita State is a member of the Common App. If you'd like to apply using the Common App, add us to your My Colleges list. High school guest and nondegree admission requirements If you are a college guest, you must: Have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.00 (on a 4.00 scale) from your home institution. Students admitted as college guests are not eligible to receive financial aid. Open admission students Students who are looking to take up to 30 credit hours for self-enrichment purposes and meet one of the following criteria may be an open admit: 1. Graduated from high school, or have earned the equivalent of a high school diploma OR 2. Have not graduated from high school, and are at least 21 years of age OR 3. Currently on active military duty OR 4. Hold a baccalaureate or higher degree Students not meeting the requirements above may be considered for nondegree admission at the discretion of the Office of Admissions. Students under open admission are not eligible to receive financial aid. High school guest students The high school guest program offers a special opportunity for academically talented high school students to take college courses at WSU before high school graduation and earn full college credit. » Learn more about being a high school guest. Admission requirements Frequently asked questions Don't see what you’re looking for? Browse our list of frequently asked questions for more information on the admissions process, steps for admitted students, high school guest and concurrent enrollment, counselor and advisor information, Shocker Family programs and more. Frequently asked questions Questions? Get answers. Request info Admissions staff Ask a Shocker OneStop help center 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©