UH Charter School - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Charter School Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Charter School (Closed) School Board UHCS is Closed The University of Houston Charter School is permanently closed effective July 31, 2021. If you need access to school records or have any other questions, please contact Patricia Paquin at (713)-743-9111 or at ppaquin@uh.edu. The next quickest way to obtain your student’s permanent academic records is to instruct the new school to request a copy of the records from ESC Region 4. Should you wish to have your own copy of the records, attached is a student records request form to use when requesting a copy of your student’s permanent record. All requests must be submitted in writing on the form provided and include a copy of the requestor’s photo ID. If you have questions about your records, please call ESC Region 4 at (713) 462-7708. After ECS Region 4 temporarily houses yours records, the records will be transferred to ESC Region 13. Please call (512) 919-5418 for more information. When enrolling in a new school, take basic identification documents (birth certificate, immunization records) to help the school staff begin the enrollment process. The UHCS closure was due to significant budgetary challenges resulting from the continuing effects of COVID-19. Rather than compromise on the quality of education provided at the UHCS, the difficult decision was made to cease operations. UHCS thanks its students, families, alumni and the community for their support throughout the years. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies