SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Academic Departments The seven Cox academic departments make up more than a campus—together, they form the proving ground for your future. Whether you major or minor in business, enroll part-time or full, you’ll get a small-school feel with big-city opportunities. Accounting Accounting is the foundation for success in business, no matter your job title. At Cox, you'll get a rigorous education, plus the skills to ride change—and drive it. Learn more Finance Jump-start your finance career with state-of-the art programs taught by superstar Cox faculty. A solid theoretical foundation underpins the essential tools that give you a competitive edge. Learn more Information Technology and Operations Management Data is meaningless if you can't use it to drive decisions. Future-proof your success with ITOM’s progressive curriculum, combining information systems, operations management and business analytics. Learn more Management and Organizations Dare to be disruptive. The Cox M&O department provides you with the skills and the confidence to break molds and succeed--in both startups and legacy corporations. Learn more Marketing Home of the first academic institute for the study of customer engagement and loyalty, the Cox marketing department offers powerful programs that combine the art and science marketing. Learn more Real Estate, Risk Management and Business Law Study in a boom town where real estate is king. Connect with industry leaders, tap into the latest tech, and get hands-on practice, both on-campus and off. Learn more Strategy and Entrepreneurship Choose from 18 custom-designed courses that equip you with the know-how to to launch and manage successful businesses. Innovation drives the department and its Caruth Institute for Entrepreneurship. Learn more Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter