Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> About the Libraries >> Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion "The Florida State University Libraries define diversity as the sum of the ways that people are both alike and different. We are committed to embracing the full spectrum of human and social identities. We strive to create and maintain an inclusive environment in which all individuals are treated fairly, respectfully, and valued for their distinctive skills, experiences, and perspectives to maximize the potential of all libraries' employees and the communities with whom we interact." The University Libraries is dedicated to the ideals of diversity, inclusion, and equity. We endeavor to embody those ideas every day in all of our work. However, we have three purposeful initiatives that turn those ideas into action: Popular Literature Collection Diversity and Inclusion Committee FSU Diversity Residency Program FSU Libraries Land Acknowledgement Statement FSU Libraries acknowledges that Florida State University is located on land that is the ancestral and traditional territory of the Apalachee (a-puh-lay-chee) Nation, the Muscogee (muh-skow-gee) Creek Nation, the Miccosukee (mi-ka-su-ki) Tribe of Indians of Florida, and the Seminole Tribe of Florida. We pay respects to their Elders past and present and extend that respect to their descendants, to the generations yet unborn, and to all Indigenous people. We recognize that this land remains scarred by the histories and ongoing legacies of settler colonial violence, dispossession, and removal. In spite of all of this, and with tremendous resilience, these Indigenous Nations have remained deeply connected to this territory, to their families, to their communities, and to their cultural ways of life. We invite you to think about the Indigenous Nations whose land you are on and pay respect to those who have gone before and those who have yet to come. Through this Acknowledgement, we celebrate their resilience and strength then and now, and express our ongoing commitment to dismantle silenced histories based on colonialism. Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Committee Calendar Diversity Residency Program Popular Literature Additional Resources About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!