Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program>Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Date Program Tables were updated: 6/21/2021 Internship Program Admissions The Baylor Counseling Center provides a generalist training in a wide range of clinical skills and professional development activities. We seek to match with applicants who are a good fit for the beliefs and values of Baylor University and of our training program. Does the program require that applicants have received a minimum number of intervention and assessment hours at the time of application? Total Direct Contact Intervention Hours Yes 250 Total Direct Contact Assessment Hours No N/A Describe any other required minimum criteria used to screen applicants? Applicants must have completed all formal requirements towards Ph.D. or Psy.D. Candidacy in Counseling or Clinical Psychology, certified by your Training Directors, including: All course work, practicums, and comprehensive final exams necessary for the title of doctoral candidate must be completed by the application date. Acceptance of dissertation proposal by dissertation committee no later than the APPIC ranking date. Completed a minimum of 500 hours of supervised experience, including 250 hours in direct provision of psychological services, spending at least 50 hours in formal supervision. Additionally, applicants should have: Ability and willingness to demonstrate a spiritual attitude and a Christian lifestyle consistent with the beliefs, methods, and goals of Baylor University. You can read about Baylor’s values at these locations: Core Convictions https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=90435 Mission Statement https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88781 Christian Commitment https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88782 Caring Community https://www.baylor.edu/about/index.php?id=88784 Ability and willingness to uphold all Baylor University standards of conduct. You can view Baylor’s “Personnel Policies here: http://www.baylor.edu/bupp/?_buref=1155-90749 The ability and willingness to submit to and pass a prospective employee background check. Financial and Other Benefit Support for Upcoming Training Year Annual Stipend/Salary for Full-time Interns $35,568 Annual Stipend/Salary for Half-time Interns N/A Program provides access to medical insurance for intern? Yes Trainee contribution to cost required? Yes Coverage of family member(s) available? Yes Coverage of legally married partner available? Yes Coverage of domestic partner available? No Hours of Annual Paid Personal Time Off (Vacation) 128* Hours of Annual Paid Sick Leave 88** In the event of medical conditions and/or family needs that require extended leave, does the program allow reasonable unpaid leave to interns/residents in excess of personal time off and sick leave? Yes*** *Employees receive accumulate paid vacation at a rate of 10.67 hours every month resulting in an overall annual total of 128 hours. **Employees accumulate paid sick leave at a rate of 7.33 hours/month resulting in an annual total of 88. ***We will work with an intern, when possible, to make reasonable accommodations in extenuating circumstances depending on the timing and an intern’s progress in the program, though the unavailability of office space and other resources may rule this out. Other Benefits Baylor University identification card Use of campus facilities and libraries Free use of Baylor’s Student Life Center Free Admission to certain campus events Use of dining facilities with discounts Free parking Each intern has a private office with computer and internet access. The Counseling Center observes many state and religious holidays and is often closed for part of the winter holiday. Initial Post-Internship Positions Total number of interns who were in the 3 cohorts 12 Total number of interns who did not seek employment because they returned to their doctoral program/are completing doctoral degree. 0 2018-2021 PD EP University counseling center 1 4 Independent practice setting 2 6 Academic university/department 0 1 Other medical center or hospital 0 0 Independent primary care facility/clinic 0 0 Community mental health center 0 1 Federally qualified health center 0 0 Veterans Affairs medical center 0 0 Military health center 0 0 Academic health center 0 0 Psychiatric hospital 0 0 Community college/ teaching setting 0 0 Independent research institution 0 0 Correctional facility 0 0 School district/system 0 0 Not currently employed 0 0 Changed to another field 0 0 Other 0 0 Unknown 0 0 Note: “PD = Post-doctoral residency position; “EP” = Employed Position. Each individual represented in this table should be counted only one time. For former trainees working in more than one setting, select the setting that represents their primary position. APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health