Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources About Academics Apply Research Give Info for... Search Faculty Openings Facility Access MakerSpace Industry Careers ViAComp Faculty Resources and Training Continuity Contingency Plan Students About Mission & Vision Leadership Fast Facts Strategic Initiatives Publications Calendar Directory Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs PhD Programs More Programs Admissions Departments Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computer Engineering Industrial and Systems Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Apply Research Strategic Thrusts Shared Facilities Centers and Institutes CoE Laboratories Highlights Administrative Give Info for... Alumni Faculty and Staff Current Students Industry and Outreach More Resources COE Home Main College College News Biomedical Engineering Chemical, Environmental and Materials Engineering Civil and Architectural Engineering Electrical and Computing Engineering Industrial Engineering Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Faculty Openings Facility Access MakerSpace Industry Careers ViAComp Faculty Resources and Training Continuity Contingency Plan Students $sLabel Home Resources Faculty Resources and Training AAA Faculty Resources and Training Faculty Openings Facility Access MakerSpace Industry Careers ViAComp Faculty Resources and Training Continuity Contingency Plan Students GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply For New Faculty List of helpful contacts. Please ensure you have access to the College of Engineering’s Box folder (Pro_Engineering_Global_Shared). You should ask your departmental manager to include the request for access in the IDR being submitted to IT to set up your computer. When deciding to submit a proposal, faculty are to complete a proposal submission intent form posted at my.coe.miami.edu/research. This form is to be submitted to the College Sponsored Program’s specialist (Daviane Lastra, dxl694@miami.edu) with a cc to the faculty member’s Department Chair and to Maria Rojas (mrojas@miami.edu). Faculty are to adhere to proposal submission deadlines as listed in the second page of this form which includes the proposal checklist with expected submission dates. Funding opportunities can be found through multiple means. These include on-line resources available through the University of Miami Office of Research home page including instructions for the use of SpinPlus. The Medical School also has resources available to help faculty with the preparation of research grants through their Research Page and through the Clinical Translational Science Institute (CTSI). We also highly recommend that faculty network through professional contacts including program managers at funding agencies, to learn more about potential funding opportunities. The University of Miami also offers workshops and courses in research development. Tips for initiating contacts at NSF. It is important that faculty communicate with program managers BEFORE submitting a proposal to make sure that the research to be proposed is within their program area. There are several ways to do this and faculty should take advantage of these multiple ways of working with your program manager. These ways include: Volunteer to serve on a review panel for proposals. Contact your program director directly if you would like to volunteer. Participate in an NSF-sponsored training session where your program manager will be presenting. These training sessions take place in Washington DC and at Universities throughout the U.S. NSF does not market these training sessions collectively. They are typically advertised on program or directorate specific NSF-web sites. Direct contact with the Program Manager, by email, phone or in person. Before contacting your program manager – do your homework and go through the information available on the NSF web site. Several program managers indicated that they would like to see some sort of project summary so they can comment on the appropriateness BEFORE the proposal is submitted. When you contact your Program Manager concerning a possible research idea, include a short (1 page) written summary of that idea. Sign up on the NSF listserve through NSF site. Training For Existing Faculty Post Award was presented on August 28, 2019 by College of Engineering Staff. Conflict of Interest. All researchers are required to complete a two-part process that addresses possible conflicts of interest. This must be completed prior to submitting research proposals. The first part is an on-line training module in conflicts of interest that can be accessed at CITI COI Training site). If you are unable to access the COI site link, please see PowerPoint Slides for step by step instructions. The second part is completing a disclosure. The disclosure forms can be accessed at the DPS site. Responsible Conduct of Research. All researchers within the College of Engineering are to complete training in the responsible conduct of research (RCR) during the first academic semester of arrival. RCR training is valid for a period of four years. Visit the following web sites for more information about the University-level RCR program and the engineering guidelines for RCR training. Export Control. It is the policy of the University of Miami to comply with all U.S. export control laws and regulations. Training is required if a research grant has language that addresses compliance with export control. Basic information about Export Control including a list of upcoming training sessions is available at Basics of Export Compliance site. Laboratory Safety. Faculty who conduct research in laboratories are responsible to assure that those who utilize the laboratory have the proper training. The University’s Environmental Health and Safety office provides a series of laboratory training sessions. The telephone number for the Office of Environmental Health and Safety is 305-243-3400. Internal Review Board (IRB). Research projects that utilize people and/or gather data from people will require an IRB review through the University. A protocol for IRB review can be submitted through the University at HSRO site. The Human Subjects Research Office can also be contacted by telephone at 305-243-3195. See Powerpoint slides Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). Protocols must be formally submitted to the University’s IACUC for research projects that utilize animals for experimentation. Workshops and seminars for those who plan to conduct studies utilizing animals are available through the University of Miami’s Office of Research. Additional Training Opportunities are available through the University’s Office of Research. These additional training opportunities include, but are not limited to, award administration, research information systems, and technology transfer. Post Award Management is available through Workday. Research Dashboard provides consolidated account information that links the Financial and Human Resources system. Workday provides more details financial information. All post award charges are to be consistent with the policies of the awarding agency and with the policies of the University of Miami Office of Research Administration. Working with Students, Postdoctoral Associates, and Visiting Scholars. All working relationships, whether paid or unpaid, need to be approved by the Department Chair. Even volunteers need to be cleared through the Department. Before completing any forms please ask the Departmental Staff Manager to contact the appropriate office before completing the volunteer forms. If a student is to be hired for pay, please contact the departmental staff manager who will help facilitate the process. International Visiting Scholars are not considered volunteers and the University of Miami has different departments that need to be contacted in order to obtain permission for inviting an international visiting scholar. Please contact your Department Chair and Departmental Staff Manager concerning the process for inviting Visiting Scholars to campus. College Faculty Web Pages and CVs are managed through Digital Measures input screens which can be accessed here. Instructions for entering information into Digital Measures is available here. TRAINING FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS Please refer to the training section of Addendum to Graduate Student Offer Letters TRAINING FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS Please refer to the Undergraduate Student Resources site University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Engineering 1251 Memorial Drive, McArthur Engineering Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 (305) 284-2404 (305) 284-2404 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Support COE Give to COE Ways to Give Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices