Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geology Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geology Major Apply Visit Request More Info Geology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Geology Major Learn the foundational concepts of geology with the Geology BA or Geology BS from the College of Science and Technology. Geologists use a combination of field and laboratory research to understand the physical, chemical and biological processes that have shaped our planet over time and how these processes affect us. You’ll cover topics like energy resources; environmental protection; geologic hazards such as volcanic eruptions, storms and floods; and global climate change. Elevate your degree with a combination of upper-level classes that meet your interests and future goals, and prepare for postgraduate study or a career in development, policy and research. Choosing between the BA and BS The Bachelor of Arts (BA) is geared toward liberal arts students who want to concentrate in geology. Students gain exposure to the study of groundwater, minerals and physical geology. It is also well-suited for premedicine and prelaw students as well as those planning to teach earth science in secondary school. The BA degree requires slightly fewer credit hours than the BS degree, so you will have sufficient flexibility for electives outside the major. The Bachelor of Science in Geology (BS) involves foundational and advanced science courses and is the best choice if you are considering graduate studies in the geosciences. The BS curriculum includes courses such as igneous and metamorphic geology, the use of computers and remote sensing in geology, paleontology and the interpretation of earth history through the study of sedimentary deposits. It also provides excellent preparation for a career in government, industry, research or teaching. Learn more about courses and curriculum for the Geology BA and Geology BS. Geology Major / Master of Education You can also earn a Geology Major from the College of Science and Technology and a Master of Education from the College of Education and Human Development. Qualified students can earn a master’s degree in five years, instead of taking the usual six. Learn more about pursuing this accelerated degree. Related Graduate Degrees Geology MS Geoscience PhD Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Geology Major. Allison Tumarkin-Deratzian is the vice chair and faculty advisor. Phone: 215-204-2321 Email: altd@temple.edu Ilya Buynevich is a faculty advisor. Phone: 215-204-3635 Email: coast@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 prehealth clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing the Geology Major may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. The Geological Society of Temple University encourages students to explore geological and environmental topics through social experiences with peers. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Abroad Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-GEOL-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geology Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info