Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Research Global Health Western Pacific Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Latin America and Caribbean Europe Asia Middle East Africa Western Pacific Latin America and Caribbean Europe Asia Middle East Africa Western Pacific Western Pacific Australia 1. Childhood Obesity Y. Claire Wang Research program uses simulation modeling to understand trends in obesity and cost-effectiveness of prevention strategies. OTHER COUNTRIES IN THIS PROGRAM Canada, United Kingdom 2. Human Rights Protection, Law Enforcement and Security Jack Saul Project researches the organizational dynamics that allow for the improper use of force and implements a program to prevent such abuse. OTHER COUNTRIES IN THIS PROGRAM Nepal, Sri Lanka 3. Leanyer Virus W. Ian Lipkin Discovery of a novel orthobunyavirus isolated in northern Australia. Article 4. Microarray-based Detection of Viruses Causeing Vesicular or Vesicular-like Lesions in Livestock Animals W. Ian Lipkin, Thomas Briese Identification of viruses using a long oligonucleotide microarray assay. Article 5. Oak Vale Virus from Western Australia W. Ian Lipkin Genomic sequencing of K13965 strain of Oak Vale virus. Article 6. Optimizing Configurations of Roadside Sobriety Testing Checkpoints to Reduce Alcohol-Involved Crashes Christopher Morrison, Charles Branas Combines roadside sobriety testing checkpoint data and motor vehicle crash data from Queensland, Australia, to identify optimal times and places for police to conduct checkpoints. 7. Raine Cohort Study Charles DiMaggio Study investigates potential neurodevelopmental effects of general anesthesia on young children. Website 8. Stretch Lagoon Orbivirus W. Ian Lipkin, Thomas Briese Discovery of Strecth lagoon orbivirus, a novel orbivirus isolated from Culex and Aedes mosquitos in north Australia. Article New Zealand 1. Crime and Mental Health Gina Lovasi Study examines the physical and mental health effects of crime and perceived crime. 2. Injury Preventability, Service Accessibility and Equity Charles Branas Injury analysis, mapping and national trauma care decision making tool development funded by the Health Research Council of New Zealand. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Period Poverty and the Pandemic: A Forgotten CrisisMay 4 2022 BARDA Support to Speed Development of Next-Generation Sequencing-Based Diagnostics PlatformMay 3 2022 Memorial Event Celebrates the Life of Zena SteinApr 27 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers