Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Faculty Diversity and Belonging Menu Faculty Development Discipline Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Training and Education National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity Summer 2021 Calendar NCFDD Building A Publishing Pipeline Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Ad Unitatem: Newsletter on Equity and Campus Engagement Faculty of Color Black Faculty & Staff Association Faculty of Color Alliance Female Faculty Women's Colloquium Women in Science and Engineering Women's and Gender Studies Report It! University Diversity & Inclusion Data Campus Climate Survey COACHE Survey About the 2020 Survey COACHE FAQs Illuminate Office of the Provost Faculty Diversity and Belonging Baylor University has a strong commitment to faculty development and diversity. The Baylor community is fully committed to nurturing an environment for knowing, being, and doing across campus where people of all backgrounds can come together - because we know that together we are stronger. Explore Data and Surveys To learn more about Baylor faculty's diversity, climate, recruitment, development, and retention explore the surveys that are currently taking place on campus. Campus Climate Survey The Campus Climate Survey pertains to diversity, inclusion and overall environment from the perspective of faculty, staff, and students. Our first climate survey took place in 2017 and will be used as a benchmark. This study will measure perceptions of climate including inclusiveness, friendliness, cooperation, support, and opportunities for career advancement and academic success and also compared to the original survey two years ago. Campus Climate Survey COACHE Survey The Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education (COACHE) at the Harvard Graduate School of Education is a research-practice partnership and network of peer institutions dedicated to improving outcomes in faculty recruitment, development, and retention. Under COACHE, more than 300 colleges, universities, and state systems have strengthened their capacity to identify the drivers of faculty success and implement informed changes. More Information Survey Results Events See More Events Faculty Development Baylor University offers its faculty members a variety of faculty development opportunities to support teaching and research as well as creative activities and performance in the arts. The specific opportunities offered by the university may vary over time as they evolve to meet changing faculty and university needs. Faculty Development Diversity, Equity and Inclusion At Baylor, we celebrate our distinctive place in higher education - where research, scholarship, and faith guide the mind in understanding the complex diversity of God’s creation and prepare the whole person for service and leadership. Baylor is committed to developing critical thinkers and active citizens for full participation in our global community. We will develop the whole person within the context of God’s creation - a rich, complexity of life and diversity. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Faculty Development and Diversity 1320 S. 7th St. One Bear Place #97014 Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-7591 DataReport It!Open Positions General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Faculty Development Discipline Specific Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Training and Education National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity National Center for Faculty Development and Diversity Summer 2021 Calendar NCFDD Building A Publishing Pipeline Diversity, Equity & Inclusion News Ad Unitatem: Newsletter on Equity and Campus Engagement Faculty of Color Black Faculty & Staff Association Faculty of Color Alliance Female Faculty Women's Colloquium Women in Science and Engineering Women's and Gender Studies Report It! University Diversity & Inclusion Data Campus Climate Survey COACHE Survey About the 2020 Survey COACHE FAQs Illuminate Office of the Provost