Skip to main content Skip to main navigation About Baylor Menu Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories Our Stories Baylor>About Baylor>Our Stories Our Stories Award Season Andy Hogue from the Office of Engaged Learning celebrates Baylor's Fulbright, Goldwater and Churchill award winners and more. A Commitment to Excellence President Livingstone's contract extended ten years by Baylor Board of Regents. Honoring the Fallen Lampposts across campus recognize Bears whose who gave all in service to our nation. Registration Now Open Discover the incredible opportunities and experiences that await you as a Baylor Bear at Orientation and Line Camp. Christ-Centered Diversity Dean Mazumder and Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, Cindy Wu, explain Christ-centered diversity through scriptures. Our Newest Storytellers Meet the Baylor alumni whose podcasts educate and entertain a growing audience. New Dean Baylor welcomes Jason R. Carter, Ph.D. to lead Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences. Educating the Mind and Soul Two Baylor students explain the importance of a Christian higher education. Getterman Scholars Program Since 2017, the Getterman Scholars Program has grown into one of the University’s most successful recruitment programs for high-ability students. Outstanding Professors Congratulations to the Baylor professors of the year. Sharing Grief, Sharing Healing Meet two Baylor alums who found outlets to process their own grief while helping others. Congrats, Class of 2022! Baylor celebrates more than 3,000 new alumni at Spring Commencement. Cancer Couldn't Stop Her Ellie Kronlokken is a Baylor graduate who overcame a significant health challenge en route to Commencement. A Family Legacy A father, son and daughter are graduating from Baylor this weekend. Investment in Learning The Office of Engaged Learning leads to a record number of students winning prestigious scholarships and awards. Pursuing Cancer Drug Leads Organic chemist Liela Romero returned to her alma mater to fight cancer and mentor students in that pursuit. Top Scholars A record-setting 13 students were named Fulbright recipients for 2022. National Day of Prayer Join Baylor's Chaplain Burt Burleson in praying on National Day of Prayer. Thank You, Teachers On National Teacher Day, Baylor students say thank you to all of the teachers who impacted their lives. Safe and Healthy Relationships Baylor psychologist examines safe vs. unsafe behaviors and how students can support friends in pursuing healthy relationships. A Life-Changing Class Learn how a Baylor history class saved a Baylor student's life. Baylor Theatre Presents "Moon Man Walk" Director Sam Henderson shares significance of a story of family amidst loss in Baylor Theatre's season-ending production. Researching Autism Dr. Joaquin Lugo is finding the connection between autism and epilepsy. Building Financial Literacy Learn how Baylor provides financial counseling and education to help students plan and grow. Read Story Archives Our Stories About Baylor Joining the Baylor family is an opportunity to experience a top academic environment within a dynamic Christian community. Ask Baylor Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Campus The Vibrant Baylor Campus Then & Now Traditions School Song Fight Song Baylor Bucket List The Immortal Message The McLane Carillon Virtual Tour Campus Map Directions to Baylor Connect Social Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Baylor Alumni Connect Wear the Gear Facts & Figures Overview Awards & Rankings Ask Baylor Financial Highlights Heritage History Baylor Presidents Founders & Founders Day The Naming of Baylor Baylor Campus: Then & Now Historical Timeline List of Timeline Events Prominent Bears Commission on Historic Campus Representations Leadership Office of the President Senior Administration Administrative Departments Values & Vision Give Light Core Convictions Mission Top-Tier Academics Research Apply Christian Commitment Celebrating Advent Caring Community Athletic Excellence Strategic Plan Join Us Apply Now Work Here Make a Gift Visit Baylor Our Stories