By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted HEOP & SSS More from this Section Syracuse Bound Deferral Request Veterans Syracuse Pathway Program Visit Opportunities FAQ Checklist Housing Living Learning Communities Health and Wellness Requirements Dining & Meal Plans Expenses, Billing, & Payment Things to Consider Technology International Students Important Dates Discovery Program SummerStart HEOP and SSS Information From academic advisement and monitoring to tutoring and counseling, these programs can match you with dedicated, experienced support professionals who will help you achieve your academic goals. New York State Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) Student Support Services (SSS) New York State Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP) You recently received notification that the Admissions Committee is currently reviewing your application for admission to Syracuse University through the sponsorship of the Higher Education Opportunity Program (HEOP). The HEOP program has strict eligibility guidelines, along with limited enrollment. Before you prepare your HEOP application materials, please read the following important information. To be eligible for HEOP, you must meet the following New York State criteria: Have permanent residence in New York State Possess a high school diploma or GED equivalent Attend and successfully complete a mandatory six-week summer bridge program Meet NYS economic eligibility guidelines (see below) Economic Eligibility Criteria* Total # of Family Members (including head of household) Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 1 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $23,828 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 2 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $32,227 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 3 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $40,626 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 4 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $49,025 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 5 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $57,424 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 6 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $65,823 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 7 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $74,222 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) 8 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year $82,621 Total # of Family Members (including head of household) For each family member in excess of 8 Total Annual Income in Preceding Calendar Year add $8,399 This chart is based on the HEOP/EOP 2022 income guidelines that apply to the 2020 income year for the 2022-23 entering class. It is subject to change. Families with accumulation of assets may not be eligible. HEOP: What You Need To Do In order to confirm your eligibility, promptly complete and return the economic eligibility form and supporting documents listed on your Financial Aid “To Do” list in MySlice , which may include: HEOP Economic Eligibility Form with supporting 2020 Income Tax Returns for student and parent; along with 2020 W2 forms (f ollow the instructions on the form ) Child Support Statement, notarized Social Security/Social Services Income and Benefits Verification Form If your parents are divorced, separated, or were never married to each other, then your noncustodial parent will need to file the CSS Non-Custodial Profile (NCP). If you have a special circumstance that would make it difficult to submit the NCP, email finaidU1@syr.edu for further information. Additional Information If you are admitted through HEOP you are required to attend and complete a six-week summer bridge program on the Syracuse University campus. The University, HEOP, and New York State’s Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) cover housing, meals, tuition, and book expenses incurred for the six-week program. Due to Syracuse University regulations, please be aware that incoming HEOP students are ineligible to practice or compete in inter-collegiate athletics during their first year. Student Support Services (SSS) Congratulations on your admissions and your invitation to participate in Student Support Services (SSS) at Syracuse University. You may choose to attend Syracuse University with or without participation in Student Support Services. Program Qualifications Meet federal low-income guidelines You must provide evidence that meets the federal low-income guidelines for taxable income (see below.) This evidence must be from financial aid applications and requested income tax or social security documents. And one of the following: First-generation college student If neither of your parents (or custodial parent in the case of a single parent household) has a Bachelor’s *four year) degree, you are considered a first-generation college student. Student with a documented disability To qualify as a student with a documented disability, you must have acceptable documentation on file in the Office of Disability Services or present that documentation with your application. Federal TRIO Programs-Current-Year Low-Income Levels (Effective January 15,2020 until further notice) Size of Family Unit 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions Alaska Hawaii Size of Family Unit 1 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $19,140 Alaska $23,925 Hawaii $22,020 Size of Family Unit 2 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $25,860 Alaska $32,325 Hawaii $29,745 Size of Family Unit 3 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $32,580 Alaska $40,725 Hawaii $37,470 Size of Family Unit 4 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $39,300 Alaska $49,125 Hawaii $45,195 Size of Family Unit 5 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $46,020 Alaska $57,525 Hawaii $52,920 Size of Family Unit 6 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $52,740 Alaska $65,925 Hawaii $60,645 Size of Family Unit 7 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $59,460 Alaska $74,325 Hawaii $68,370 Size of Family Unit 8 48 Contiguous States, D.C. and Outlying Jurisdictions $66,180 Alaska $82,725 Hawaii $76,095 For family units with more than eight members, add the following amount for each additional family member: $6,720 for the 48 contiguous states, the District of Columbia and outlying jurisdictions; $8,400 for Alaska; and $7,725 for Hawaii.<br><br>The term "low-income individual" means an individual whose family's taxable income for the preceding year did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level amount.<br><br>The figures shown under family income represent amounts equal to 150 percent of the family income levels established by the Census Bureau for determining poverty status. The 2020 poverty guidelines are in effect as of January 15, 2020. Federal Register notice was published January 17, 2020 The Student Support Services program has limited enrollment and is on a first-come, first-served basis. A SSS Checklist Cover Sheet will assist you in providing all required documentation. SSS: What You Need To Do In order to confirm your eligibility, promptly complete and return the supporting documents listed on your Financial Aid “To Do” list in MySlice , which may include: SSS Participation Contract SSS Financial Documentation Form In addition to the forms, you must submit the Admission Acceptance Form (AAF) and any advance payments as soon as possible. Mail all documents to: Financial Aid Processing Syracuse University PO Box 37324 Syracuse, NY 13235 Or you may upload documents in MySlice in your Financial Aid To Do list OR scan and email forms and all documents to faprocessing@syr.edu . Contact Us If you have further questions regarding HEOP or SSS, please contact us at 315.443.3867 or by email: Contact HEOP Marieke Davis suheop@syr.edu Contact SSS Craig Tucker sss@syr.edu Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy