COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Military and Veterans Affairs COVID-19 Update Division staff are working remotely during this time period, due to health and safety concerns pertaining to COVID-19. If you have any questions, please contact Marché Fleming-Randle at marche.fleming-randle@wichita.edu or call 316-978-5932. President's Diversity Council Section Menu President's Diversity Council About the Council Council Members College & Division Liaisons Committees DiverseCity The President's Diversity Council is an advisory and leadership team responsible for developing, overseeing and monitoring University-wide efforts to achieve Wichita State University's commitment to diversity as a core institutional and educational value. Learn more about the Council Working Towards a Diverse Campus Climate The President's Diversity Council is composed of individuals from Wichita State University who are involved in efforts to promote and cultivate a diverse campus climate. Members of the Council receive an official University appointment, on behalf of the Office of the President of Wichita State University, under the direction of the vice president for Diversity and Community Engagement. As advocates for diversity, inclusiveness and equity, the Council values and promotes cross-campus collaboration; consults with faculty, staff and University departments; and regularly supports and participates in diversity enrichment opportunities. View list of Council Members 4th Annual DiverseCity We are proud to announce our 4th annual diversity showcase, DiverseCity. This week-long event gives Shocker Nation a glance of the successes from individuals, departments and organizations in the campus community that were made possible through diversity. More information Committees Each of our Council Members serves on one committee to help move PDC projects and initiatives forward. Our committees are charged with reviewing current practice, researching best practices, supporting the development of diversity education and learning and providing recommendations that assist Wichita State University achieve its strategic plan goals. Each year, the committees are tasked to draft new goals and objectives, while evaluating previous year's successes to incorporate into the Council. Learn more about committees Looking for Something? Diversity-related Events 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©