Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Emerging Media (BFA) – Graphic Design Track Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Arts and Humanities Department(s) Visual Arts & Design, Schl of In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio reviewed tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Graphic Design track educates students in the art and science of visual communication, stressing the professional aspects of design. Students combine technology with aesthetics in the production of typographic and publication design, branding and identity systems, packaging, film and broadcast graphics, posters, interactive and UI/UX design. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Graphic Design track requires successful completion of the Graphic Design Portfolio review. The Graphic Design portfolio review process is held in the Spring semester. Graphic Design portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/graphic-design-portfolio/. Students who do not pass the Graphic Design Portfolio review should contact SVAD Advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and plan of study must be pre-approved. View Full Description Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Aerial Photographer Animator Calligrapher Catalogue Illustrator Graphic Artist Graphic Designer Industrial Photographer Magazine Designer Medical Photographer News Photographer Photography Professor Piano Performance and Pedagogy Professor Piano Professor Portrait Photographer Scene and Lighting Design Lecturer School Photographer Tattoo Artist Theatre Professor Visual Designer Wedding Photographer Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Arts and Humanities programs Bachelors Emerging Media (BFA) - Graphic Design Track University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × The Emerging Media BFA allows students to integrate multiple domains of art, design, storytelling, and technology in one of the three portfolio reviewed tracks, Character Animation, Experimental Animation or Graphic Design. The program is designed to provide: a solid foundation in techniques and theory in one of the listed tracks; a broad understanding of related disciplines including arts, humanities, and technology; an extended experience in working in multidisciplinary teams on realistic problems. The program is administered through the School of Visual Arts and Design. The Graphic Design track educates students in the art and science of visual communication, stressing the professional aspects of design. Students combine technology with aesthetics in the production of typographic and publication design, branding and identity systems, packaging, film and broadcast graphics, posters, interactive and UI/UX design. As part of the program, some courses study the form and proportion of the human figure. Nude models are used as reference. Admission Requirements Admission into the Graphic Design track requires successful completion of the Graphic Design Portfolio review. The Graphic Design portfolio review process is held in the Spring semester. Graphic Design portfolio information can be found at: https://svad.cah.ucf.edu/graphic-design-portfolio/. Students who do not pass the Graphic Design Portfolio review should contact SVAD Advising ([email protected]) to discuss options. Note: One-on-one portfolio reviews are not possible due to the large number of received portfolios. Degree Requirements Students who change degree programs and select this major must adopt the most current catalog by filing a catalog year change with their degree change form. Departmental Residency Requirement consists of at least 36 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-4000 level courses taken from the UCF School of Visual Arts and Design. Students must earn at least a "C" (2.0) in each required course except DIG 2000, which requires a "B" (3.0) or better. BFA students must achieve a 3.0 GPA in all major requirements. Co-op credit cannot be used in this major. Students should consult with their SVAD advisor each semester. Note: Emerging Media majors must have continual access to a computer. Contact the UCF Technology Product Center or see the website (http://tpc.ucf.edu) for the minimum hardware and software specifications. No more than 6 hours of overlap allowed between courses used in the Emerging Media BFA and any minor. Please see SVAD advising for permission to complete more than one major in SVAD. Certain restrictions apply and plan of study must be pre-approved. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 15 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 15 credits from the following: ARH2051 - History of Western Art II (3) ART2201C - Design Fundamentals-Two Dimensional (3) ART2203C - Design Fundamentals-Three Dimensional (3) ART2300C - Drawing Fundamentals I (3) ART2301C - Drawing Fundamentals II (3) GRA2101C - Introduction to Computer Art (3) GEP Course: ARH 2051 Core Requirements: Advanced Level 24 Total Credits Complete the following: ARH3471 - Art in the Last 25 Years (3) GRA3102C - Intermediate Graphic Design I (3) GRA3112C - Intermediate Graphic Design II (3) GRA3202C - Type & Design (3) GRA3803C - Intermediate Computer Graphic Design (3) GRA3950 - Graphic Design Portfolio GRA4196C - Advanced Graphic Design (3) GRA4209C - Type & Design II (3) GRA4802C - Advanced Computer Graphic Design (3) Restricted Electives 21 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: 3000 or 4000 level Art History (ARH) courses. Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: SVAD Studio Art (ART), Illustration (GRA), and/or Photography (PGY) courses. Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: additional upper level courses outside of SVAD must be approved by the program Area Coordinator before course(s) are taken. Capstone Requirements 3 Total Credits Complete the following: GRA4197C - Special Problems in Graphic Design (3) Grand Total Credits: 63 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida