Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected Welcome, Visitors! PROCEEDING SAFELY FACE COVERING UPDATE Based upon recent changes to the COVID-19 guidance issued by the CDC and the California Department of Public Health (CDPH), the University has updated its requirements for wearing a face covering in indoor public settings. Based on this new guidance as well as current COVID-19 community levels within the region, as of April 1, 2022, the University will no longer require wearing face coverings indoors. The University values the personal choice of wearing a face covering and suggests that members of our community carefully consider the recommendations of the CDC and CDPH. Those who wish to continue to wear face coverings regardless of vaccination status are free to do so without fear of retaliation. University Address: 800 North State College Boulevard, Fullerton, CA 92831 Map Box Office & Gallery Hours Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office 12 pm – 4 pm, Tuesday–Friday The Box Office is also open 1-hour prior to performances for same day ticket sales. (657) 278-3371 • Email Additional Box Office information Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Tuesday – Thursday 11 AM – 4 PM Friday (by appointment) Saturday 11 AM – 4 PM Closed Sunday, Monday, all major holidays, and when academic instruction is not in session. Begovich Gallery website Marilyn & Cline Duff, Leo Freedman Foundation, and Exit Galleries Generally 12 pm – 4 pm, Monday – Thursday Hours differ between shows and are determined by the exhibitor. Student Exhibitions website The Box Office and all galleries are closed for major holidays, and during periods of University closure (such as Winter, Spring and Summer breaks). Grand Central Arts Center (Santa Ana) 11 am–4 pm, Tuesday–Thursday 11 am–5 pm, Friday and Saturday 1st Sat. Art Walk extended hours: 7 pm - 10 pm 11 am–3 pm, Sunday (714) 567-7233 Visitor's information for Grand Central Arts Center Parking Information Park in the Nutwood Parking Structure for all performances, Visual Arts exhibitions and other non-performance activities. Enter at Arts Drive or Nutwood Avenue. Parking is free Friday evenings (after 5 pm) and all day on Saturday and Sunday. At all other times, daily permits are required and can be purchased for $10 on the 2nd and 4th floors of the Nutwood Parking Structure. Cash is not accepted. Visa, MasterCard and Discover only. Dean's Office • College of the Arts (657) 278-3256 Dean, Arnold Holland Associate Dean, Dave Mickey More information School of Music (657) 278-3511 Interim Director, Edward J. Fink, Ph.D. School of Music website Department of Theatre & Dance (657) 278-3628 Chair, Jamie Tucker Department of Theatre & Dance website Department of Visual Arts (657) 278-3471 Chair, Jade Jewett Department of Visual Arts website This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.