Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Alumni Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Alumni You can also like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter, Instagram and Flickr. Connect to keep up with the latest news and events! Current Data: If you change your home address or job this year, please send details via e-mail to [email protected] so we can keep our records up-to-date. In the Neighborhood? Visiting the Providence area? We’d love to have you visit and even give an informal “lunch bunch” presentation. Let us know your travel schedule! Careers Day! If you'd like to come to Brown and participate in DEEPS's "Careers Day" colloquium, please contact Karen Fischer. This is always a well-attended session because our alums speak so passionately about their varied work experiences. AGU 2020: Brown/Geology Alumni Reception The American Geophysical Union's 50th annual Fall Meeting will be held in New Orleans, LA and online everywhere from December 13-17, 2021 The DEEPS Alumni Reception will be held on Monday, December 13, 2021 at Annunciation Restaurant 1016 Annunciation Street, New Orleans, LA People Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Courses Research Lectures and Colloquia Alumni Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Print this Page Share this Page Stay Connected with DEEPS at Brown University Department of Earth, Environmental and Planetary Sciences Brown University Box 1846 324 Brook Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3339 [email protected] Calendar Jun 23 9:00am Dissertation Defense: Sarah McGrath Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Department Resources Computing Guide