skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Website Navigation Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login About About the University Campus safety Diversity initiatives Employment & careers Giving EO & Title IX Degrees & programs Majors Minors Online programs Graduate programs Colleges & schools Admissions Freshman admissions International admissions Transfer admissions Graduate admissions Financial aid & scholarships Tuition & fees Campus Life Campus experience Housing Dining First-year student guide Fitness & recreation Student engagement Events calendar Research & Innovation University research Graduate research Undergraduate research Innovation hub Research hub Athletics NevadaWolfpack.com Buy tickets Events schedule Support athletics TV & radio Apply Visit News Give Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools The schools and colleges at the University of Nevada, Reno are home to a wide variety of departments, units, centers, labs and amazing faculty and staff. Each offers a collection of academic programs, from certificates on up to doctoral degrees and everything in between. Explore all they have to offer below. College of Agriculture, Biotechnology & Natural Resources The College of Agriculture, Biotechnology & Natural Resources occupies a special place in the University's landscape with its community-focused missions through teaching, research and service-oriented activities. By offering a diverse curriculum, our students are prepared to respond effectively to complex social issues relating to the food, agricultural, human and natural resource sciences. CABNR Homepage College of Business The University of Nevada, Reno's College of Business is the premier provider of business education in the region, as such, we prepare students to become competitive, ethical and innovative business professionals in order to drive economic development and improve quality of life for all citizens of the State of Nevada. We continue to be an increasingly influential driver of economic development in the State of Nevada. Business Homepage College of Education & Human Development The College of Education & Human Development is a recognized leader in shaping high-performing education professionals who will develop a lifelong love of learning and with the skills essential for thriving in a global, knowledge-based economy. We prepare educators, counselors, administrators, and child and family specialists to serve as leaders in their fields. Education Homepage College of Engineering There's never been a better time to be an engineer in Nevada. Through globally competitive degree programs, high-impact research, and outreach programs serving Nevada's K-12 schools, the College of Engineering is bringing the latest engineering technologies to our communities. Engineering Homepage College of Liberal Arts The College of Liberal Arts is central to the intellectual and artistic life of the University of Nevada, Reno. We emphasize inquiry, discovery and openness to new ideas and perspectives. The College supports major scholarly research and creative activity in the humanities, social sciences and arts. Also housed within the college, the School of the Arts and the School of Social Research & Justice Studies engage in interdisciplinary and thematic approaches to learning, research and creative activity. Liberal Arts Homepage School of the Arts School of Social Research and Justice Studies College of Science At the College of Science, we value scientific curiosity, discovery, and a bold quest for new knowledge. Embark on an education that unites disciplines in the pure and applied physical sciences, earth sciences, life sciences, and mathematics around the central tenets of the scientific method and logic providing you with a solid framework of education and research. Also housed within the college, the College of Science is the Mackay School of Earth Sciences and Engineering provides students with a hands-on learning experience in a wide range of work environments while interacting with natural resources, mining, construction and mineral industry leaders. Science Homepage Mackay School of Earth Sciences and Engineering Orvis School of Nursing Founded in 1956, the Orvis School of Nursing (OSN), at the University of Nevada, is the oldest school of nursing in the state and is dedicated to serving people of Nevada through quality teaching, research and service. The School of Nursing prepares students for entry-level and advanced nursing roles through collaborative, hands-on learning experiences at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Nursing Homepage School of Public Health The School of Public Health was established in 2004 and blends together cutting-edge research in public health with dedicated community service opportunities. The School offers undergraduate programs, a Master of Public Health (MPH) — both on-campus and online, a PhD, as well as dual degrees with campus partners, the Orvis School of Nursing and the University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine. Public Health Homepage Reynolds School of Journalism The Donald W. Reynolds School of Journalism helps undergraduate and graduate students turn their passion for storytelling into careers in news and documentary, advertising and public relations, bilingual media and visual communication. The Reynolds School balances enduring values of fair and ethical communication with emerging practices and new technologies. Journalism Homepage University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine School of Medicine learners are leading the way to better health as future physicians, researchers, audiologists, speech pathologists and physician assistants. From providing hands-on care in the Student Outreach Clinic to collaborating on game-changing research, opportunities abound. Whether planning for a residency or preparing to join the health care field, our students are prepared to contribute to a healthy Nevada. School of Medicine Homepage School of Social Work The School of Social Work is dedicated to the values and commitments of the social work profession through education, research and public service. It prepares effective and ethical social workers who challenge injustice and promote a more humane world. Social workers can help individual and communities in countless ways while building satisfying, dynamic careers. Social Work Homepage The Graduate School The University of Nevada, Reno Graduate School seeks to create a 21st century graduate student environment that values and promotes diversity, exploits the power and promise of technology and provides an outstanding educational experience that enables students to successfully achieve their career goals, while serving as a catalyst for transforming the state's economy into one that is diversified and knowledge based. Graduate School Homepage Honors College The Honors College seeks to provide students who are both academically talented and highly motivated with an undergraduate education that nurtures and promotes their capacities to think competently, understand deeply and act ethically. The Honors College is University-wide and is designed to enhance all majors. Resilience, ingenuity, stewardship, and equity are characteristics that form the core of our program mission and guide our students’ paths from admission to graduation…and beyond. Honors College Homepage Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX