Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia College Today Main menu Current Issue Past Issues Contact Us Winter 2021–22 Obituaries Peter L. Zimroth ’63, New York Attorney Dedicated to Public Service Peter L. Zimroth ’63 was a lifelong New Yorker and an attorney who worked for the betterment of his city. As NYC’s chief legal officer, he drafted a public campaign financing law that became a model for other municipalities, and as a court-appointed monitor he oversaw reforms in the NYPD’s controversial stop-and-frisk policy without a consequent increase in crime. Zimroth, who was a partner with the firm of Arnold & Porter for 25 years and a founding director of the Center on Civil Justice at NYU Law, died on November 7, 2021. The Center on the Administration of Criminal Law at NYU Law has been renamed in his honor. “Peter was a brilliant lawyer dedicated to public service and to this institution, as well as a beloved colleague and friend,” said NYU Law Dean Trevor Morrison. “His legacy will endure through both the work he did during his lifetime and the ongoing mission of the center named in his honor.” Zimroth, who was married to actress Estelle Parsons, served as New York City’s chief legal officer under Mayor Ed Koch 1987–89, during which time he fought bias against women, who frequently were denied admittance to private clubs. He also was instrumental in the creation of the city’s voluntary system of public campaign financing, a model that was adopted by many other local governments. Later in his career, Zimroth was appointed by Judge Shira A. Scheindlin of the Federal District Court in New York to oversee reforms in the NYPD’s stop-question-and-frisk crime-control strategy. The stops were found to disproportionately single out Black and Hispanic New Yorkers, which Scheindlin called a “policy of indirect racial profiling.” While she elected not to halt the tactic, she chose Zimroth to monitor racial disparities in the number of stops as well as reforms in the department’s training and procedures. He served in that role 2013–20. “He was a superb lawyer and wonderful colleague for whom intellectual honesty always informed his advocacy positions,” Richard D. Emery, a prominent civil liberties lawyer, told The New York Times. “He was fair, balanced and superbly articulate for his causes.” Zimroth was born on January 11, 1943, and raised in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn. He recalled watching Jackie Robinson, the first Black baseball player in the major leagues, on TV with his grandfather, who urged him to fight injustice wherever he found it. He graduated from Abraham Lincoln H.S. at 16 and attended Yale Law, where he was editor of The Yale Law Journal before graduating in 1966. Zimroth clerked for Judge David L. Bazelon of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and for U.S. Associate Supreme Court Justice Abe Fortas. He taught at NYU Law, served as an assistant federal prosecutor in Manhattan and as chief assistant to longtime Manhattan district attorney Robert M. Morgenthau before joining Arnold & Porter in 1990. “I’ve been a prosecutor, a defense lawyer, a teacher; I’ve been an administrator,” he told the Times in 1987. “And I really feel very strongly about using the law as an instrument for social good. That’s why I became a lawyer.” In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1983, Zimroth is survived by his son, Abraham; stepdaughters, Martha Gehman and Abbie Britton; sister, Alice Kelly; four grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. — Alex Sachare ’71 Issue Contents Online Exclusive Greek Myths: Where Are They Now? New York Stilled Life Carlos Cortés ’09 Is Bringing Caribbean Chocolate Culture to the Bronx Cover Story Twice the Talent Features What’s New, Art Hum? The 2021 Lion’s Pride Honors Departments Message from the Dean The Big Picture Letters to the Editor Around the Quads News Briefs Did You Know? Faculty Lounge In Memoriam Look Who’s Talking Roar, Lion, Roar Roar, Lion, Roar In Memoriam Columbia Forum Alumni News Message from the CCAA President Lions Publisher Namrata Tripathi ’01 Is Helping Young Readers Make Sense of the World A Meeting with Picasso Changed This Photographer’s Life Dion Macellari ’83 Makes Art for Hollywood Characters Bookshelf Class Notes Just Married! Obituaries Obituaries Peter L. Zimroth ’63, New York Attorney Dedicated to Public Service Phil Schaap ’73, Noted Jazz Historian, Programmer and Educator Richard M. Froehlich ’85, LAW’88, Affordable Housing Advocate Other Deaths Reported Read it Online Published three times a year by Columbia College for alumni, students, faculty, parents and friends. Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7852 cct@columbia.edu CCAA on Facebook CCAA on LinkedIn CCAA on Twitter CCAA YouTube Channel CCAA on Instagram Manage Your Subscription Support CCT Columbia Alumni Center 622 W. 113th St., MC 4530, 4th Fl. New York, NY 10025 212-851-7488 ccalumni@columbia.edu © 2022 Columbia University | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination | University Home Page