Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety What to do in an emergency Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Related Links Residential Life Fire Safety Policies Contact a Fire Safety Officer What to do in an emergency Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Fire Safety Home Environmental Health & Safety Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Overview The Boston College facilities rest in the jurisdiction of several fire departments. Through our Fire Safety Office we interact with all Authorities Having Jurisdiction (AHJs). To ensure compliance with federal, state, and local fire safety guidelines, as well as coordinate the education of the campus community on fire prevention, Boston College employs three Fire Safety Officers. Each officer brings decades of experience to manage the University's fire safety efforts. Officers are charged with conducting fire safety inspections, educating residents and employees about fire safety and extinguisher use, working with Facilities to manage fire suppression systems, and ensuring compliance with all applicable fire safety programs, regulations, and codes. Residential Life Fire Safety Committee This committee is a cooperative effort between Environmental Health & Safety, Residential Life, Facilities Services, Student Affairs, and the Boston College Police Department. The committee has developed a number of policies since its inception, from banning smoking in residence halls in 2003 to banning hoverboards on campus in 2016. Other programs that this committee has initiated include random health and safety residence hall inspections, fire prevention guidelines, a list of items banned due to their threat of fire, confiscation of banned items, and sanctions for violations of University fire safety policy. BC will only allow the use of power cords with circuit breakers or surge protectors in residential buildings. These are the only power cords with built-in intelligence to prevent cord fires, ground faults, or surges. Fire Drills EHS works with the Residential Life staff, students, and the local fire departments to provide fire drills once each semester in each of the residence halls. These drills are conducted as early as possible at the beginning of each semester. Fire drills are also conducted on a quarterly basis at the Campus School and on a monthly basis at the Child Care Center and at the beginning of all summer camps. Welding Permits Prior to obtaining permits from either Boston or Newton for cutting, welding, or any other hot work on campus, a contractor must obtain an Application for Cutting and Welding with Portable Gas or Arc Equipment from the Boston College Fire Safety Office, located at Carney Hall Suite 400. This application must be completed and signed in person at the Fire Safety Office. The cities of Boston and Newton will not grant a permit for this type of work without the application form from the BC Fire Safety Office. Decorative Lighting and Holiday Decorations Decorative lighting is permitted in dormitories year-round. However, only UL-approved miniature LED lights are allowed, and no more than two strands of lights may be used in a room. Lights may be lit only while students are present in their rooms. Contact with drapes, bedding, or other combustibles must be avoided. Only small holiday decorations (approximately 1 foot x 1 foot) are permitted on outside room doors or in hallways. Live trees or wreaths are not permitted within residence halls or in places of assembly at any time. Only certified fire-retardant artificial trees and wreaths are allowed. Safety Contacts Boston College makes use of Safety Contacts in residence halls, academic, and administrative buildings. These individuals are designated by their supervisors or by nature of their position (e.g. Resident Directors). The role of Safety Contacts is to share relevant information with the building occupants and the Fire Safety Office. Emergency Evacuation Plans Emergency Evacuation Plans (EEPs) have been prepared for most buildings on campus. If you need a PDF of your EEP, contact the Fire Safety Office at extension 2-0361. Fire Safety Initiatives Boston College has an active Fire Safety program with strong training and outreach components. In addition to fire drills each semester and random room inspections with Residential Life, our Fire Safety Officers provide Fire Safety Training, including hands-on fire extinguisher training to: Health Services personnel Campus School staff Incoming science lab workers Resident Directors and Resident Assistants Library personnel All Facilities workers Volunteers for the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) program. We can also provide hands-on extinguisher training at student and staff events. Related Links Residential Life Fire Safety Policies Contact a Fire Safety Officer Back To Top Back To Top BC Campus Safety 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College