Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites School of Medicine Wichita Academics Research Patient Care Outreach Student Life About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors KU School of Medicine-Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for KU School of Medicine-Wichita Academics Academics M.D. Program-Wichita MPH Program Graduate Medical Education-Wichita Academic & Student Affairs-Wichita George J. Farha Medical Library Simulation Center JayDoc Community Clinic Research Research Office of Research-Wichita Center for Clinical Research-Wichita Center for Research for Infant Birth and Survival Human Research Protection Program-Wichita Patient Care Patient Care Medical Practice Association & Clinics Affiliate KU Wichita Clinics JayDoc Community Clinic School-Based Health Care Outreach Outreach Community Programs Student Life Student Life The BEAT Academic & Student Affairs Healthy Hawks About About Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita About KU School of Medicine-Wichita At KU School of Medicine-Wichita, our mission is to educate tomorrow's physicians and health care leaders through community partnership to improve the health of Kansans. Dean Minns Campus Maps Departments News Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Support the School 4-Wichita Healthy Hawks Support Services Events Calendar Simulation Center William J. Reals Gallery of Art George J. Farha Medical Library Living in Wichita Medical Education With Kansas in need of more physicians, the University of Kansas School of Medicine-Wichita opened in 1971 to provide hands-on clinical training to medical students in their third and fourth years. In 2011, KU School of Medicine-Wichita expanded to a full, four-year campus, welcoming its first class of first-year medical students. 5 reasons Kansas needs more doctors: Low physician-to-population ratios in 5 of 6 geographic regions Aging population needs more care More retirement-aged physicians Increased demand for care with reform Time to get through medical school and residency is 7+ years While the majority of medical schools are tied to a hospital, KU School of Medicine-Wichita is community-based thanks to more than 1,000 volunteer faculty inside three partner hospitals (Robert J. Dole VA Medical Center, Wesley Medical Center, and Ascension Via Christi), as well as in doctors’ offices across the state. In addition to educating doctors and other health care professionals for Kansas, KU School of Medicine-Wichita benefits the community and state by: Bringing clinical trials to residents Improving patient outcomes and lowering costs through research Impacting the economy by $80 million by 2015 as the campus expanded, according to 2009 studies Providing care to those in need KU School of Medicine continues to lead the nation in medical students choosing to go into family medicine with a three-year average of more than 21 percent. A 2009 study ranks KU School of Medicine fifth out of 141 medical schools in the nation for its progress in fulfilling its social mission of students who practice primary care; students who work in underserved areas; and students who are minorities. KU School of Medicine-Wichita 1010 North Kansas Wichita, KS 67214-3199 316-293-2635 Facebook Wichita Twitter Wichita Youtube Wichita LinkedIn Wichita Instagram Wichita Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.