Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Access and Equity Office of Access and Equity The Office of Access and Equity coordinates the development of policy, procedures, programs and services related to equality of opportunity in employment, business access, admissions, retention, academics, advancement and general treatment for faculty, staff, students and visitors. Access and Equity monitors the University’s compliance with all federal, state and University policies related to equitable treatment and unlawful discrimination. Access and Equity accomplishes its mission through the implementation of activities in four main areas: Compliance, Education and Training, Outreach Programs and Research and Evaluation. The research and evaluation component is done in collaboration with the Charles H. Houston Center for the Study of the Black Experience in Education. Ross Cathy (’07) ADA Scholarship - Embracing & Valuing Differing Abilities Applications are now being accepted by the Office of Access and Equity for the Ross Cathy (’07) ADA Scholarship - Embracing & Valuing Differing Abilities. This scholarship is offered to any current undergraduate student who has successfully registered with Clemson’s Student Accessibility Services (SAS) or will provide appropriate information to the Office of Access and Equity indicating a qualified disability. Students must be in good standing and have earned a minimum of 12 semester hours with a 3.0 GPA or higher. The scholarship was created by Ross Cathy. Ross earned a degree in communications studies from Clemson in 2007 and credits SAS for helping him achieve his academic goals. Download and complete the Scholarship Application and submit via email with all supporting documents to priscih@clemson.edu. For consideration, applications must be received no later than May 20, 2022. CU Student Accessibility Stories Clemson Title IX NDEAM Keynote Speakers NDEAM Lunch and Learn Speakers Home American with Disabilities (ADA) Graduate Diversity Doctoral Fellowship Award Policies and Procedures Services SREB Conference Supplier Diversity Contact Us Related Links Title IX Inclusion and Equity Student Accessibility Services ClemsonLife Request an ASL Interpreter Request real-time or live captioning Accessibility Portal Accessibility Commission Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram