Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Learning Commons Learning Commons right arrow down arrow Schedule a Service Programs and Policies right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching right arrow down arrow Meet the Academic Coaches Academic Writing Center right arrow down arrow Meet the Tutors Graduate Tutoring Learning Assistants Learning Communities right arrow down arrow Peer Leader Program Current Peer Leaders Current Peer Leader Coordinators Math & Science Support Center Peer Facilitation right arrow down arrow Current Peer Facilitators Current Peer Facilitator Coordinators Peer Tutoring Success Skills Workshops right arrow down arrow Step by Step Guide to Register Success Skills Workshop Policies Success Skills Workshop Topics Supplemental Instruction right arrow down arrow SI Schedule Supplemental Review Sessions (MATH 1096) Learning Resources right arrow down arrow Note-Taking and Test Strategies right arrow down arrow The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits right arrow down arrow Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials right arrow down arrow Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students right arrow down arrow First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress right arrow down arrow Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute right arrow down arrow Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Student Employment right arrow down arrow Academic Coaching Positions Academic Writing Center Positions Front Desk Assistant Positions Learning Assistant Positions Learning Community Peer Leader Positions Peer Facilitator Positions Peer Tutoring Positions Success Skills Workshop Positions Supplemental Instruction Leader Positions SRS Leader & MASS Tutor Positions Professional Staff Home » Campus Life » Learning Commons » Learning Resources » Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress » Defining Your Career Goals Set Navigation title in component Note-Taking and Test Strategies The Cornell Method for Note-Taking Reading for Main Ideas vs. Details SQ4R: Getting the Most from Your Textbooks PLAN: An Active Reading Strategy How to Ace Your Finals Learning Styles and Study Habits Strategies for Aural Learners Strategies for Kinesthetic Learners Strategies for Visual Learners Writing Resources Business Writing Materials Resume Writing Tips Cover Letter Tips Memo Writing Tips First-Year Students First Semester Checklist Achieve Your Goal GPA Technology Skills Anxiety, Attitude, and Stress Managing Stress New Concentration Ideas Look at Your Classes to Find Your Passion Defining Your Career Goals Math Minute Math Minute - Algebra Math Minute - Calculus Online Learning Strategies Defining Your Career Goals Before completing this assessment, you will need to explore and catalogue your strengths and weaknesses, in addition to your interests and life goals. Our site has several links to learning style evaluations and study skill inventories. You may want to begin with the resources in the Learning Styles and Study Habits section. After studying your strengths, weaknesses, or learning styles, try to apply them to your plans for the future. Before beginning the assessment below, review the Occupational Outlook Handbook to get a sense of the types of careers profiled. Then complete the questions below. Academic Coaches are trained to help students find information on a variety of fields and paths, so you may want to make an appointment to complete this assessment with an Academic Coach. Defining Your Career Goals Assessment What are your top strengths (students may refer to their learning styles, multiple intelligences, or any other self-studies completed with a coach or by themselves)? What is your proposed career, and why have you picked this career? How do you see this career maximizing your skills and utilizing your best skills? What are the educational requirements to reach this career goal? Include undergraduate curriculum and performance requirements, graduate or professional career goals, residencies, etc. Write out your required courses for your major and any courses you may need to take to prepare for a graduate or professional program. What is the average compensation in this profession? Is it a living wage? Is it enough for you to satisfy your lifestyle goals? Repay student loans? In what areas or states is this occupation most in demand? In what areas or states is it best compensated? What are the schedule or time demands for the average practitioner in this field? Will those fit with your goals for leisure, family life, travel, hobbies, or physical activity? What are your top priorities when balancing your work, family, and personal lives? What sacrifices will you make in this career path? Are all these sacrifices acceptable or realistic (ex: will you have to work 80 hours per week to achieve success? If so, are you realistically willing to commit to such a time demand?) What challenges will you need to plan for? Do you have a long educational path ahead of you? Are there courses or subjects for which you will need to more vigorously prepare? Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 learningcommons@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Learning Commons 2510B French Hall West 513-556-3244 Fax: 513-556-0823 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top