Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Cultural & Affinity Groups Campus Centers & Student Groups Princeton's excellence in education and research comes from attracting and supporting the most talented people from all backgrounds. Through our centers and groups, you can engage individuals of similar background or connect with identities other than your own on topics ranging from academics and activism to arts and service. Fields Center for Equality and Cultural Understanding . The Fields Center supports students and helps them explore diverse perspectives and experiences of race, class, gender and their intersections. It also provides common spaces for events and cultural affinity rooms for student group use. Learn More Davis International Center . The Davis International Center provides specialized services and programs for international students and scholars, including advising on immigration and visa matters, hosting events, and consulting on intercultural issues. Learn More Women*s Center . The Women*s Center provides a supportive atmosphere for female students and hosts an array of cultural and educational programs aimed at recognizing and working to end gender inequality. Learn More LGBT Center . The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Center supports and empowers LGBTQIA students and the broader campus community through community-building, education, events and initiatives. Learn More Undergraduate Student Organizations . From the Black Student Union to Latinos & Amigos, and from the Scandinavian Club to the Hong Kong Students Association, dozens of student groups celebrate the heritage, civic interests and traditions of cultures around the world. Learn More Graduate Student Organizations . Princeton's graduate student organizations represent a wide array of cultures, reflecting the diversity within the United States and the 42 percent of students who come from other nations. Learn More In the News Play video: Play Video: Students celebrate all indigenous peoples through Natives at Princeton Celebrating indigenous peoples The student group Natives at Princeton, which includes all indigenous peoples, builds community and educates through events on campus. Actress and activist Cox talks about 'journey to womanhood' . Focusing on themes of acceptance, empowerment and empathy, Emmy-nominated actress Laverne Cox shared her personal story and advocated for the transgender community during the talk "Ain't I a Woman: My Journey to Womanhood." Learn More U.S. Poet Laureate Herrera encourages students to speak out on social issues . Named the first Latino United States poet laureate in 2015, Juan Felipe Herrera spoke to a standing-room only audience of students and community members at the Fields Center. Learn More Muslim life at Princeton . Students and Princeton's Muslim chaplain, Imam Sohaib Sultan, discuss the tight-knit community developed by the Muslim Life Program and Muslim Students Association. Learn More One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice