Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Titan Research Gateway Main Navigation ABOUT US Show Extended Mission Statement Whom Do I Contact? Contact Us ORSP Organization Chart Grant Life Cycle Show Extended Step 1: Generate Ideas Step 2: Find Funding Step 3: Develope Porposals Step 4: Submit Proposals Step 5: Award Review Step 6: Manage Awards DEVELOPMENT & SUBMISSION Managing Awards Show Extended Online Financial Reports How to Access Your Online Financial Report PI/PD Handbook Sponspored Programs Forms Sponsored Programs Policies Research Compliance Show Extended Institutional Review Board Human Subjects (IRB) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Financial Conflict of Interest (FCOI) Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) Research Misconduct NSF/NIH Anti-Harassment Policy Contact Us Resource Library Show Extended Forms Policies and Guidelines Templates, Instructions, and Samples Boilerplate Information Terminology Feedback ORSP Updates Centers & Institutes CSUF Research Reintegration Student Creative Activities and Research Days (SCAR!) Days –VIRTUAL SCAR Days highlight the research and arts projects developed by CSUF students. This is a welcoming and inclusive event – please consider participating! Trending Now 2022-23 RSCA Grant to Promote External Funding - Call for Proposals: Funded by the Chancellor’s Office, the Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity (RSCA) Program Award will fund up to $15,000 (for operating expenses or course release) for individual or collaborative research projects. Workshops for this opportunity will take place in March via Zoom. Deadline: Friday, March 18, 2022 at 5:00 P.M. Late submissions will not be accepted. For additional information on the spring cycle, please see the RSCA Funding Opportunity Announcement . Helping College Students Develop Research: CSUF Launches Inaugural Summer Undergraduate Research Academy. Q4 Grants Support Projects From Supercomputers to Food Justice: University Receives Nearly $28.4 Million in Grants During 2020-21 Fiscal Year. Chemist Honored With National Science Foundation CAREER Award: For his innovation and promising advances in the chemical sciences, Cal State Fullerton chemist Michael Groves has received the National Science Foundation’s prestigious CAREER award. Social Work Department Awarded $1.9 Million to Boost Mental Health Workforce: The Department of Social Work received a four-year, $1.9 million grant from the Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for, “The Integrated Behavioral Health Education and Leadership (BHEAL).” $600,000 Grant for Supercomputer to Boost Research, Teaching: U.S. Army Award to Prepare Students for Computing Workforce, Solve Complex Computational Problems. Student Researchers Earn Top Honors at Statewide Competition: Eleven Cal State Fullerton students competed in the 35th annual California State University Student Research Competition, with four of the scholars winning first- and second-place awards. University Brings In Record-Breaking Level of Grant Funding: Cal State Fullerton secured $31.5 million in grants and contracts in 2019-20 , breaking the campus’ previous record of $27.4 million the year before. News and announcements Stem Cell Scholars Prepare to Advance Knowledge in Budding Field Donation to Support Research on Artificial Intelligence in Medical Field, Diversity in STEM 2021 Outstanding Professor Lecture Spotlights Summer Research Program Unique to Cal State State Fullerton University’s Second Supercomputer to Welcome New Era of Research in Science and Mathematics Grant to Bolster Diversity in STEM, Fund Research on Materials That Contract When Heated Cal State Fullerton Advances in Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education Can Artificial Intelligence Help Increase Diversity in STEM? Faculty Impart Expertise Through Publications, Presentations and Awards Publications, Presentations and Honors Demonstrate Faculty Prowess Faculty and Staff Receive Nearly $12 Million in Grants, Contracts in Q1 National Grant to Add Over 116,000 LGBTQ Spaces to Mapping Project Grant Opens Doors for Students to Enter Growing Field of Data Science Go to News and Announcements for more... Last updated 5/2/2022 ORSP Calendar Sitemap Faculty Resources Student Resources 2020-21 SUBMISSIONS 2020-21 AWARDS 2020 WoS PUBLICATIONS* $111.9M $28.4M 653 *WoS -Web of Science Student Spotlight 35th annual California State University Student Research Competition Sponsored by a National Institutes of Health BRAD grant, the Titan Research Gateway is home to the Office of Research and Sponsored Projects This site is maintained by Research and Sponsored Projects Office. Last Published 5/2/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact TRG@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.