By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad Why Syracuse Abroad? More from this Section Semester Programs Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool FAQs Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Why Syracuse Abroad? Are you interested in studying abroad for personal development, making lifelong friends, seeing the world or honing language skills? Syracuse Abroad can offer you the chance to do all of the above! Begin Your Application Our Syracuse Abroad Centers and Featured Programs Syracuse Abroad centers, extensions of the Syracuse University campus, are widely recognized for their focus on student success, the quality of their academic and cultural programming and their innovative experiential learning opportunities. The University operates centers in Florence, Italy; London, England; Madrid, Spain; Santiago, Chile; and Strasbourg, France, as well as a featured program in Central Europe based in Wroclaw, Poland. These programs specialize in a wide range of professional and liberal arts disciplines. Each is managed by a director, along with multicultural staff, delivering unparalleled academic programs and support services to students studying abroad. Staff abroad and on campus are dedicated to empowering students to reach their full potential abroad, both academically and personally. Florence, Italy London, England Madrid, Spain Santiago, Chile Strasbourg, France Central Europe Travel with Purpose: Syracuse Signature Seminars With Syracuse Abroad, you may enroll in a Signature Seminar that marries travel with hands-on research, experiential learning, reflection and creative expression. These exciting and academically rigorous courses, which are among Syracuse Abroad’s distinguishing features, combine adventure and travel with academic purpose. During a Signature Seminar, you visit multiple destinations and explore global issues through local perspectives. These seminars are run by highly experienced faculty and staff and are an opportunity to acclimate to life abroad, better understand your new home city in a broader regional context, and build new friendships and community. World Ready. Career Ready: Internships, Volunteer and Research Opportunities Syracuse Abroad programs include abundant opportunities to engage deeply with the topics you study and the communities you visit. Regional field trips and field study are incorporated in many of your courses, and Syracuse University’s respected reputation gives Syracuse Abroad students an edge in securing internships and volunteer and research opportunities. The friends I made, lessons learned, and incredible experiences I had exploring the country allowed me to build a new perspective on handling my daily life. It opened my mind to new opportunities and I saw that there is so much more that the world has to offer. —Nick Barba ’20 Diversity and Inclusion Syracuse Abroad programs strive to create a space that makes every student feel welcomed, supported, empowered and valued. Each program exposes you to original perspectives while preparing you to thrive in a new environment. Resources and services are available to help you acclimate and gain a greater understanding of the customs of other countries. Health and Safety Syracuse Abroad is known for its exceptional care and diligence in all matters relating to student safety and the holistic well-being of the student. Staff on campus work closely with local experts abroad, international partners and campus resources, including the State Department and International SOS travel guidance, to ensure the safety of all students studying abroad. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy