Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Points of Pride Points of Pride right arrow down arrow POINTS of PRIDE POINTS of PRIDE This is what it means to be Boldly Bearcat. Today, tomorrow, together, forever, we’ll run straight at any challenge, overcome any obstacle, And absolutely demolish the status quo. This isn’t an arrival. It’s an agenda for audacious accomplishment, emanating from campus to city to country to every corner of the world. Apply Refer a Friend Request Info #4 in College Football Playoff #4 in College Football Playoff #4 for co-op & internships (US News & World Report) #4 for co-op & internships (US News & World Report) Top Public School (US News & World Report) Top Public School (US News & World Report) Research 1 University - Carnegie Classification Research 1 University - Carnegie Classification Bearcats athletics are the heart and soul of UC spirit. Bearcats athletics are the heart and soul of UC spirit. The global birthplace of co-op The global birthplace of co-op We invented cooperative education more than 100 years ago. So it only makes sense that we continue to innovate all aspects of experience-based learning—from internships and service spring breaks, to virtual co-ops and undergraduate research projects. Top 5 for co-ops and internships -U.S. News & World Report Co-op earnings: collective $65M per year, working in 22 countries and 44 states for more than 1,300 employers. Average earnings: $10,500 per semester Average student loan debt 12.2% lower than at peer institutions 100% student participation in experience-based learning “The most ambitious campus design program in the country” - The New York Times “The most ambitious campus design program in the country” - The New York Times Cincinnati: Our City Cincinnati: Our City Vibrant, big-city opportunity. Midwest hospitality. Rising tides raise all ships, and just like Bearcats, our city is on a rise to new heights. Cincinnati is more than part of our name. It’s our gateway to professional growth and our source for inspiration. No matter who you are, or what you’re passionate about, there is something here for everyone. #1 Best City for New College Grads –SmartAsset Regional population of more than 2 million Home to six Fortune 500 companies and one of the most vibrant startup ecosystems in the nation Big-city amenities: professional sports, arts, museums and cultural attractions – along with plenty of small-town charm. “A research heavyweight.” - The Chronicle of Higher Education “A research heavyweight.” - The Chronicle of Higher Education Next Lives Here Next Lives Here University of Cincinnati is the leading Research 1 university in the region. And our commitment to innovation is reflected in the heart of Cincinnati’s innovation district, at 1819, our 100,000 square-foot facility dedicated to collaborative discovery. Through inclusion, innovation, and impact, we’re solving problems that matter. Top 3 % in research expenditures Makerspace: 12,000 square-foot makerspace and micro-factory Venture Lab: rapidly curated startup opportunities, connecting UC students, faculty, staff, and alumni to talent and funding. Corporate Innovation Spaces: shared facilities and front-door service to UC’s resources, research and talent. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45221 513-556-6000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top