Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Neuroepidemiology Research Group Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Neuroepidemiology Research Group Neuroepidemiology Research Group Menu Search for: Neuroepidemiology Research Group Members Research Resources Selected Publications Recent Publications Neuroepidemiology Research Group The Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health Neuroepidemiology Research Group is a team of scientists collaborating in the epidemiological investigation of multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson’s disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and other neurological diseases. We are based at HSPH, with collaborators at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, and other institutions both in the U.S. and abroad. Our primary research involves the application of epidemiological methods to identify causal risk factors for neurological diseases, and our focus is on the conduction of large prospective investigations into the effects of nutrition, environment, and infectious agents on neurological disease risk, as well as the identification of biomarkers and genetic determinants of neurological disease susceptibility. We have been actively working in these areas since 1997, when the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Stroke funded the documentation of MS and PD among participants in the Nurses’ Health Studies and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study. Our research has now been extended to multiple additional cohorts, both nationally and internationally. Collectively, these studies constitute a unique resource comprising millions of individuals that we hope will contribute to the discovery of new approaches to the prevention and treatment of these neurological diseases. Contact Neuroepidemiology Research Group Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Department of Nutrition Contact Us News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College