Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs : Postdoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellowships alt="Information science and research graphic" Postdoctoral Fellowships Our teaching and research fellowships provide early career scholars opportunities to pursue professional development and research activities. Postdoctoral fellows join the iSchool via a variety of mechanisms, including faculty research grants and contracts, external programs (such as the CIFellows program), and programs run by the iSchool -- including the Bullard Research Fellows and Boyvey Teaching Fellows (see below). Watch our jobs page for the latest opportunities to join our community. Bullard Research Fellows The Bullard Research Fellows program is designed to allow exceptionally promising young scholars the time to develop their own research while collaborating with leading established scholars and researchers. It is designed to accelerate careers, and to maximize the ability of Bullard Research Fellows to build independent research trajectories. To accomplish this, a portion of each fellow’s time will be reserved for their own independent research and publication efforts, including publishing results from their dissertation. Additionally, all Bullard Research Fellows will work with a mentor or mentors on research projects which are either already active or are collecting data in anticipation of funding. All have significant publication opportunities planned. These post-doctoral positions do not include any obligation to teach; however, successful applicants who wish to enhance their teaching record will be able to teach up to one course annually as part of their normal workload; this may be done either as a co-lecturer with a faculty member, or as an independent lecturer. All post-docs will be given opportunities for guest lecturing and will be expected to give public seminars. Each post-doctoral fellow will have access to up to $5,000 annually for research expenses and travel to professional conferences and research opportunities. Press Releases iSchool Welcomes Bullard Research Fellow James Hodges Texas iSchool Welcomes Six New Post-Doctoral Research Fellows Boyvey Teaching Fellows The goal of the Boyvey Fellow program is to provide early career scholars the opportunity to benefit from supportive mentoring and two years of classroom experience developing and independently teaching classes that will provide an advantage when pursuing tenure-track positions within and beyond The University of Texas at Austin iSchool. The Boyvey Fellows will teach primarily in the iSchool’s new undergraduate degree programs, the B.A. and B.S in Informatics, although teaching at the graduate level is also possible. The Boyvey Fellows will teach an annual 5-course (2-3) teaching load to allow for time for the scholar to publish from their research or carry out other research activities that can further strengthen their record, as well as up to $2,500 annually for research and professional development such as conferences. These are normally two-year, non-renewable positions. Press Releases Texas iSchool Welcomes New Faculty Members Research at the iSchool At the iSchool, research transcends boundaries and crosses disciplines in order to understand the ways information and technology change our behavior, our organizations, and our society. Explore iSchool Research Postdoctoral Fellows at UT Postdoctoral Research Fellows Marlen Promann (2021-present) (CIFellow) Tara Zimmerman (2020-present) (CIFellow) Edward Helderop (2019-present) Jake Nelson (2019-present) Caroline Stratton (2019-2020) Lorraine Dong (2015-2018) Bullard Research Fellows James Hodges (2020-present) Robert Bautista (2019-2021) Stephen Slota (2019-2021) Abigale Stangl (2019-2020) Boyvey Teaching Fellows Robert Bautista (2021-2023) Stephen Slota (2021-2023) Postdoctoral Fellows Research Video of Postdoctoral Fellows Research Postdoctoral Fellows Research Talks Explore recent research talks from the iSchool's postdoctoral fellows. Watch the Playlist on YouTube UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022