COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Communication Sciences and Disorders, Master's Master'sCommunication Sciences and Disorders All Programs College of Health Professions Communication Sciences and Disorders The Master of Arts (MA) in communication sciences and disorders (CSD) from Wichita State combines quality classroom instruction with applied learning at the WSU Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic, in settings throughout Kansas' health care hub and across the United States. The degree will prepare you to become a certified speech-language pathologist ready for a career in educational, medical and other diverse settings. Learn how Communication Sciences and Disorders is the right fit for you. Request Info How to Apply to the Program Apply to WSU Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Consideration for program admission requires: Application for admission to the WSU Graduate School, including official transcripts from all institutions attended; and either MA and AuD only: Application to the Communication Sciences and Disorders Centralized Application Service (CSDCAS) including all transcripts, letters of recommendation and supporting documents; or PhD only: Submit supporting documents directly to the WSU CSD department. Admission requirements Inside the Program Students gain real-world experience through Speech-Language-Hearing clinic As a graduate student in Speech-Language Pathology, you will gain valuable hands-on applied learning and clinic experience at the Evelyn Hendren Cassat Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic. The clinic offers diagnostic and clinical services to the general public in the areas of speech, language and hearing disorders. Services are provided by graduate students under the direct supervision of faculty and certified speech-language pathologists and audiologists. Students also conduct clinically related research designed to advance their knowledge base in the discipline. Students also participate in a variety of community activities, including volunteering at the annual Medical Mission at Home event. Curriculum The MA degree offers an emphasis in speech-language pathology. The program requires students to complete 61 credit hours (thesis or non-thesis track) across five or six semesters. All students must enroll in a clinical practicum course each semester and complete annual HIPAA training. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in communication sciences and disorders from Wichita State will put you on the path toward a high-paying, high-demand career in speech-language pathology—with employment in a wide range of settings from local schools and clinics to large health care facilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Audiology (Doctorate) Communication Sciences and Disorders (Doctorate) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©