Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW University of Wyoming Brand Center Welcome to the University of Wyoming's Institutional Marketing Brand Center! In an effort to maintain a more cohesive brand, the University of Wyoming has adopted a new standard administrative policy and procedure that will encourage consistency in UW's marketing efforts, creating an enduring message of quality, reliability, and effectiveness. This page contains a variety of resources that will assist our campus partners in fulfilling this initiative. This year, Institutional Marketing released a new campaign, The World Needs More Cowboys which involves new design elements, content, and imagery. Once updated materials are finalized, they will be released within a brand portal for your convenience - in the meantime, the UW Brand Book and UW signature files are available for download on this webpage. We also encourage you to review the new Campaign Guide which contains the overall tone, objectives, and language for The World Needs More Cowboys. If you require assistance in the implementation of the UW brand, graphic design projects, photo or video services, social media marketing consultations, or other marketing endeavors, fill out a project request form, or contact us via email at uwmktg@uwyo.edu. UW BRAND BOOK The UW Brand Book contains valuable information necessary to successfully incorporate the UW Brand. NEW CAMPAIGN GUIDE This Campaign Guide contains the information necessary to understand, interpret, and successfully implement The World Needs More Cowboys campaign. UW LOGOS & SIGNATURES A variety of logos and signatures are available for implementation on marketing materials. Individual unit logos are also available. DOWNLOADABLE CONTENT COVID Signage: 4 For Your Health Masks Recommended Indoors: 11x17 | 8.5x11 Masks Required by Setting: 11x17 | 8.5x11 Face Covering Recommended (Events) Zoom Virtual Backgrounds Phone Wallpapers: Better Days Ahead! | Kindness is Contagious Printable Yard Signs GRAPHIC DESIGN MATERIALS & TEMPLATES University of Wyoming Fonts: Gotham | Blackhawk (available by request) Digital UW Letterhead Document PowerPoint Templates: Simple | Contemporary | Campaign Newsletter Templates Create a branded email signature with IT's signature generator Find high-quality professional photos on the UW Photo Database (login required) Visit our UW photo and video services page for more information We are currently working on a solution for ordering business cards. We appreciate your patience and will make a campus-wide announcement when a new process is in place. Questions and concerns can be sent to Emily Edgar at eedgar@uwyo.edu. UW branded envelopes are still available through Modern Printing. To order, contact orders@modernwyoming.com. VIDEO BRAND STANDARDS When creating videos for your unit, apply the following elements in accordance with video brand standards. Click the link below for newly updated bumpers, enders, and lower-thirds that should be utilized into your videos. Check out this video for a preview of these elements. Video Design Elements University of Wyoming YouTube Channel UW Video Services SOCIAL MEDIA RESOURCES Before creating content for University of Wyoming affiliated social media channels, take a moment to read through the UW Social Media Guidelines and Best Practices. Social media managers are responsible for adhering to standards in the UW Brand Book. The Institutional Marketing office is here to assist in social media endeavors, however, it is imperative that our representatives help you by putting our best face forward. Review the University of Wyoming Social Media Directory to see if your channels are properly listed. If you are part of a UW department, office, organization, or service and would like to register your existing profiles to be added to the list, please complete the Social Media Terms & Conditions Agreement Form. To request that a social media post or event be shared onto the main University of Wyoming channels, fill out the project request form. A variety of materials have been created incorporating our new campaign. GIFs and short videos may be downloaded for use on a wide array of social media platforms. Click here to review available content and download as needed! An example of the GIFs available can be viewed by clicking the image to the left. SUPPLEMENTAL RESOURCES Unit Logo Exemption Form Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Alternate Format Statement Procurement Services Website iTunes UW Use and Policy (doc) Web accessibility resources UW Model Release Form CMS Support Services contact us 1000 E. University Ave, Dept. 3226 Laramie, WY 82071-2000 Phone: (307) 766-3257 Email: uwmktg@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility