Skip to main content Restrict my search to University Services Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Parking & Transportation UH Home University Services Parking & Transportation COAST Alternative Transportation Program Houston METRO Parking & Transportation My Parking Account Parking on Campus COAST Alternative Transportation Program Houston METRO Vanpools through METRO Star Zipcar Carpooling Cycling Uber/Lyft Eligibility Cougar Line Shuttles Read the Blog FAQ's Cougar Ride Bicycle Registration Parking Calendar Contact us Parking & Transportation Services Staff Directory Office Locations Phone: 832-842-1097 Email: parking@uh.edu Customer Service Location: University Lofts, Suite 101 4200 Martin Luther King Blvd. University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Virtual Line / Appointments Administrative Offices: Elgin Street Garage 4224 Elgin St., Building E University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-2007 Houston METRO METRO Q Cards are reloadable cards used to pay fares on METRO buses and METRORail. Students can register for a discounted student Q Card via their parking account. Please note: these are not the COAST Q Cards. To obtain a COAST Q Card, you must make an appointment to visit the Parking and Transportation Services customer service location in University Lofts and sign up for the card. Faculty/staff can obtain a Q Card by visiting customer service office in University Lofts. Trip Planning Routes, schedules and an interactive trip planner are available at ridemetro.org. Lean how to ride METRO. Light Rail METRO's Purple Line provides frequent service between the University of Houston and downtown Houston. Riders can use their Q-Card and pay the same fare as local bus service with free transfers. COAST In an effort to better serve UH’s ever-growing campus and community, Parking and Transportation Services offers eligible faculty, staff and students the opportunity to join COAST (Coogs on Alternative and Sustainable Transportation), an incentive program for individuals who use alternative transportation to get to campus. Students receive $27.50 each month toward their METRO fare for joining, faculty / staff members receive 50% of their monthly METRO fare if using local bus and rail to commute, and faculty / staff members commuting on the METRO Park and Ride receive 25% of their monthly METRO fare. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies