Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Housing and Residential Engagement Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Mission Meet Our Staff Contact Us Student Employment and Leadership Opportunities Parking Information Student Housing Policies Current Residents Show Extended Payment Information Resident Mailing Addresses Wi-Fi for Entertainment Devices Lockouts Dining Services FAQ's Submit a Maintenance Request The Gastronome Community Market Future Residents Show Extended Housing Information Housing Communities Student Housing Suites How to Apply for Housing Payment Information Theme Communities What to Bring on Move-in Day International Students International Programs & Global Engagement On-Campus Housing for International Students Housing Tours Tour Information Campus Tours Residential Engagement Show Extended Residential Engagement Faculty in Residence Theme Communities Housing Policies Of The Month Awards Housing Student Organizations About RSA About NRHH Resources Show Extended SwakU Gifts and Care Packages MicroFridge® with Safe Plug® GradGuard Renters insurance Spectrum Fire Safety Report Off-campus Housing Events and Conference Services Show Extended Meeting Room Reservation Request Form Summer Conferences Dining and Catering Tabling Request Form Marketing Requests Contact our Events and Conferences Team Take a Housing Tour Submit a Maintenance Request Contact Us Housing Portal Multimedia Entertainment Devices Current residents who wish to use their personal multimedia entertainment devices in their rooms can do so by registering their devices on our Multimedia Device Registration page. Supported devices include video game consoles, Smart TVs, streaming devices like Apple TV or Roku, and personal digital assistant devices* like Amazon Echo, Google Home, etc. Each resident can register up to 3 devices. Students can use the device registration page at any time to modify or remove the devices they have registered. Adding or modifying your registered devices can take up to 3 business days to be effective. Resident Multimedia Device Registration You do not need to register personal computers, laptops, smartphones, tablets, or any other device that is able to connect to eduroam, the standard campus-wide WiFi. Any requests for these types of devices will be rejected. Please be aware: wireless printing to a personal printer is not supported on our campus WiFi. You'll need to know your device's MAC Address in order the submit a request. You can usually find the MAC Address in your device's network settings. After you submit a request using the button above, please allow our team up to 3 business days to set up access for your device. Once your request is approved, you'll automatically receive an email with instructions on how to connect. Looking to connect a desktop computer to an ethernet port? You may attempt to connect your computer to your ethernet port in your room. If the port is active, you'll be prompted to authenticate as a guest user for network access every 3 hours. Many of the ethernet ports are inactive as their backend wiring has been repurposed for WiFi access points. Our office is unable to assist with ethernet port troubleshooting. * Personal assistant devices like Amazon Echo and Google Home can be connected to WiFi for internet access, but they won't be able to perform smart home functions like controlling other electronics in your room. This site is maintained by Housing and Residential Engagement. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact housing@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.