Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Center for Student Wellness Menu Main Nav Center for Student Wellness Meet with a wellness coach Back Back Close About Overview Staff Campus Health Resources 10th Anniversary Celebration Programs & Services Overview Wellness Coaching The Institute of Wellness Coaching Nutrition Alcohol & Drug Recovery & Sobriety Support Parent/Guardian Resources Internship Opportunities Alcohol and Drug Screening BConnected Retreat Related Links Health Talks Healthy RA Journey to Wellness Overview Mental Health Stress Time Resilience Nutrition Exercise Sleep Alcohol Relationships Spirituality Community Social Life Related Links Feel Better Now and Online Learning Tips Events Meet with a wellness coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Taking care of your physical, mental, and social health is essential to getting the most out of your college experience. Our staff, wellness coaches, programs, and events are here to help you reflect on your personal wellness, develop skills to maintain a well-balanced lifestyle, and make informed, healthy choices that will stay with you long after graduation. Welcome Back to Boston College! We are excited to offer the following highlighted programs and services: Journey to Wellness: We offer opportunities to participate in our online resource hub dedicated to helping you care for your Mind, Body, and Soul. Online Screenings: Take a quick self-assessment of your wellness in BeWell: general health, NourishWell: relationship with food, or ChooseWell: alcohol use to explore your successes and challenges in different areas of wellness and get connected to campus resources. Wellness Coaching: Students can sign up for individual wellness coaching to develop personal goals and strategies around any of our 12 domains of health. Peer Wellness Coaches are here to support you and provide other helpful resources to care for your well-being. If you are a graduate student please make sure to select a calendar appointment labeled, "Graduate Be-Well 1:1." If you don’t see an opening that works for you, please email bwell@bc.edu. The Body Project: Join the peer-led body acceptance program designed for female-identified students to help resist cultural beauty standards and improve relationships with food and their bodies. Virtual Check Ins: Journey with us! Please be in touch to talk with a staff member about your health and wellness. We are here to support you and provide other helpful resources to care for your well-being. Stay tuned for monthly emails to your inbox! Sign Up for Wellness Coaching with a Peer Our Programs Alcohol and Drug Education The Alcohol & Drug Education Program provides opportunities for students to receive appropriate support, reflect on current choices, and learn about strategies for making lower-risk choices around substance use at Boston College. Learn More General Health and Wellness Coaching Students can meet with a peer Wellness Coach through the Institute of Wellness Coaching to discuss their well-being and develop personal goals and strategies to improve their health Learn More Nutrition and Body Image Whether you're managing a medical nutritional need, struggling with an eating disorder, looking to eat healthy at BC, or change perceptions around body image, we can help! Sign up for a nutrition counseling session, attend the Body Project, meet with a Wellness Coach, or browse our resources. Learn More All Announcements Events News We Are BC Health Blog The Mantra of Motivational Interviewing by Ryan Carney ’21 I have spent the past three years in the Office of Health Promotion working as a wellness coach. In high school I read books and listened to podcasts ... April 19, 2021 wearebchealth What is Intuitive Eating, Really? by Erin Corcoran ’21 Whether we realize it or not, all of us have been socialized within diet culture. From the notion that we need to change the way we look to have a “... March 31, 2021 wearebchealth Resilience: Reflections on a Year of COVID by Anna Fernandez It’s been about a year since COVID hit the U.S., and suffice to say, I’ve learned a lot about myself, and I’m sure you have too. We’ve all learned to adapt, ... February 26, 2021 wearebchealth Habits Changed: Navigating Physical Activity in the COVID Era by Karli Pearce Everyone’s lives have changed in extremely unexpected ways over the last few months. Many habits that I am used to keeping up with have gotten lost in the shuf... November 03, 2020 wearebchealth Let’s Talk Stress Tyler Carlton, Wellness Coach Stress is one of those things that everyone has to deal with; knowing what it is and some techniques to manage it can help us use that thing we m... October 20, 2020 wearebchealth Summer Socializing: Getting Real About Relationships by Rachel Goldsborough We have finally made it- though it may have felt a bit anticlimactic considering we were not all on campus to celebrate, the final day of classes has co... May 04, 2020 wearebchealth The Mantra of Motivational Interviewing by Ryan Carney ’21 I have spent the past three years in the Office of Health Promotion working as a wellness coach. In high school I read books and listened to podcasts ... April 19, 2021 wearebchealth What is Intuitive Eating, Really? by Erin Corcoran ’21 Whether we realize it or not, all of us have been socialized within diet culture. From the notion that we need to change the way we look to have a “... March 31, 2021 wearebchealth Resilience: Reflections on a Year of COVID by Anna Fernandez It’s been about a year since COVID hit the U.S., and suffice to say, I’ve learned a lot about myself, and I’m sure you have too. We’ve all learned to adapt, ... February 26, 2021 wearebchealth VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS Share Your Thoughts Connect With Us @weareBChealth @weareBChealth @weareBChealth bwell@bc.edu 617-552-9900 Back To Top Back To Top Center for Student Wellness Gasson Hall, Suite 025 617-552-9900 bwell@bc.edu About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College