By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Types of Aid In this Section Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Special Programs Graduate Student Aid Summer Aid Types of Aid The following list contains information about the types of financial aid available to Syracuse University students. In this Section Scholarships Grants Loans Student Employment Special Programs Graduate Student Aid Summer Aid More Information Federal Direct PLUS Loan Parents may borrow the Federal Direct Parent PLUS loan from the federal government to help pay the educational costs for their dependent undergraduate children. Federal Direct Subsidized Student Loan The Federal Direct Student Loan may be borrowed by undergraduate students with financial need as determined by the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The U.S. Department of Education pays the interest while you are enrolled at least half-time. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Student Loan The Federal Direct Unsubsidized Student Loan may be borrowed by undergraduate, graduate and professional degree students enrolled at least half-time. This loan is not based on financial need, and interest is charged while you are enrolled. You may choose to defer the interest, but if this option is selected, the interest will be capitalized (added to the principal amount). You are responsible for paying the interest that accrues while attending school and during the post-enrollment grace period. Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan PLUS loans are federal loans that graduate or professional degree students may use to help pay for educational expenses. The U.S. Department of Education makes Direct PLUS Loans available to eligible borrowers. Federal Pell Grant The Federal Pell Grant Program provides need-based grants to low-income undergraduate students. This is a grant and does not need to be repaid. Eligibility is determined through the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Federal Perkins Student Loan (expired) The Federal Perkins Loan provided low-interest loans to help students finance college costs. Because Congress chose not to reauthorize it, the Federal Perkins Loan program expired on September 30, 2017 and is no longer available to students. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) An FSEOG is awarded to undergraduate students with exceptional financial need. This is a grant and does not have to be repaid. Priority is given to Federal Pell grant recipients. The award, determined by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, is based on financial need and the availability of funds. Federal TEACH Grant The Federal Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) provides grants to students who intend to teach in an elementary or secondary school that serves students from low-income families. Grant recipients agree to teach for at least four years, within eight years of finishing their teacher preparation program, and to teach high-need subjects in designated schools. Federal Work-Study (FWS) Federal Work-Study is a part-time employment program. Work-study eligibility is awarded by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs and is based on financial need and the availability of funds. Jobs are available both on and off campus, at wages that vary by position. A weekly paycheck is paid for the hours worked; these funds will not appear as a credit on the student’s bill. New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) TAP is a grant available to New York State residents enrolled for at least 12 credit hours each semester. Robert Noyce Scholars Program The Robert Noyce Scholars Program responds to the critical need for mathematics and science teachers by encouraging talented science, technology, engineering and math students to pursue teaching careers in high-need K-12 schools. Syracuse University Grants Syracuse University offers grants (aid that does not have to be repaid) to students who demonstrate financial need. Eligibility is determined from information provided on the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE and the availability of funds. Yellow Ribbon Program Syracuse University will contribute a portion of tuition for veterans enrolled in the Yellow Ribbon program , and the Veterans Affairs will match that amount. Related Pages FAQs Costs, aid, scholarships, work-study and loans can be overwhelming. Find answers to frequently asked questions to make the process easier. Financial Aid Policies Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy