Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content search Loading... Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Search Jobs Internal Applicant External Candidate Gateway (Screen reader mode) External Applicant Faculty Positions Student Workers TalentSource Spousal/Partner Program Supporting our Military HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Living In Clemson Clemson University is located at the foothills of the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains. We are surrounded by many towns and cities within reasonable commute to the University, allowing faculty and staff a variety of options in regards to housing. Please find information about some of the surrounding communities at the links below. Interested in becoming a sponsor? Explore Clemson Clemson, SC Clemson is located in Pickens and Anderson counties. The city, in large part, revolves around the presence of the University. In 2015, the Princeton Review named Clemson as #1 in the US for “town-and-gown” relations with its University. There are approximately 16,649 people living in Clemson. Clemson borders Lake Hartwell, one of the Southeast’s largest and most popular recreation lakes. City of Clemson Schools Explore the Area Explore Central Central, SC Central is located in Pickens County and is home to nearly 3,000 permanent residents. It is also home to Southern Wesleyan University and is only approximately 10 minutes driving distance to Clemson University. City of Central Schools Explore the Area Explore Seneca Seneca, SC Seneca is a small town nestled in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains in Oconee County. It is home to 8,400 residents and is only 10 minutes away from Clemson University. While beautiful Lake Keowee is located in the heart of Seneca, two other lakes are nearby (Lake Hartwell & Lake Jocassee). Oconee County Schools Explore the Area Explore Pendleton Pendleton, SC Pendleton is located approximately 5 minutes from the heart of Clemson University. The small town is located in Anderson County, and is home to approximately 3,197 people. Town of Pendleton Schools Explore the Area Explore Anderson Anderson, SC Anderson is located approximately 25 minutes away from Clemson University, right off of Interstate 85. The city is home to nearly 28,000 residents and borders Lake Hartwell, one of the Southeast’s largest and most popular recreation lakes. City of Anderson Schools Explore the Area Explore Greenville Greenville, SC Greenville is one of the largest cities in the State of South Carolina, and is home to over 68,000 residents. The city serves as the “hub” of the Upstate region of SC. It has recently been ranked by CNN as one of the “Top 10 fastest Growing Cities in the U.S.” and by Forbes as the “13th Best City for Young Professionals”. Additionally, it received the number 3 spot by Conde Nast Traveler’s “Best Small Cities in the U.S.”. The beautiful Reedy River runs directly through the city, serving as a focal point for the well-known Falls Park. Greenville is approximately 30 minutes away from Clemson University. City of Greenville Schools Explore the Area Explore Easley Easley, SC Easley is a city located in Pickens County. It serves as a border city to Greenville if you are driving from the Clemson University area. Located only 20 minutes away from the University, Easley is home to over 21,000 residents. City of Easley Schools Explore the Area Back Home CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top