Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close Ways to Give Overview Bequests Beneficiary Designation Charitable Gift Annuities Charitable Remainder Trusts Lead Trust Real Estate Life Insurance IRA Qualified Charitable Distribution Collections and Other Tangible Assets Resources Overview Resource Center News & Research Discover Your Plan Webinars Gift Calculator FAQS Glossary Estate Planning Guide For Advisors Donor Spotlight The Shaw Society Publications For Advisors About Us Overview Meet Our Team Contact Us Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Gift Planning Leave a Lasting Legacy Making a planned gift to Boston College enables you to meet your financial and philanthropic goals while also strengthening the BC experience for the next generation of Eagles. Whatever your commitment to the areas that make BC distinctive, you’ll join a special tradition of giving at the Heights that is helping to advance our mission of educating men and women who will live their lives in service to others. Discover Your Plan Explore all of your gift options based on your age, goals, assets, and timeframe. Explore Tool The Easiest Ways to Give Bequests and beneficiary designation are the easiest and most flexible forms of gift planning. Learn More Important News Update Read about 2021 COVID-19 Relief Updates. Learn More Join the Shaw Society Become a member by including Boston College in your long-term plans. Learn More “The University today is a true center of excellence, and I am pleased that my legacy gift will help that tradition continue for years to come.” Dr. Theresa McLoud ’64 Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok