Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Licensing Licensing right arrow down arrow I'm On Campus right arrow down arrow Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests I'm Off Campus right arrow down arrow University Sponsorship Policy Crafter's Program Licensees right arrow down arrow Code of Conduct Artwork Do's and Don'ts Policies FAQs Find Bearcats Gear right arrow down arrow Look for the Label Home » About UC » Licensing » I'm On Campus » Fundraising Set Navigation title in component Internal Requests Sponsorships Fundraising Internal Consumption Policy NIL Requests Fundraising Is your group interested in selling merchandise to raise funds? University departments are not permitted to sell merchandise as a fundraisers, but a student organization may be able to through the University's partnership with HanesBrands. University Departments University departments are not permitted to sell merchandise to fundraise. This includes merchandise with AND without institutional branding on it. Student Organizations Registered student organizations may be allowed to sell merchandise and receive a portion of the income distribution from licensee HanesBrands through the their Champion Teamwear portal. These portals are reviewed and approved by the Licensing Office. No use of spirit marks is allowed on fundraising merchandise. Please contact the Trademarks and Licensing Office if your organization is interested in the Champion Teamwear portal or if you have any further questions. University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 licensing@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Trademarks & Licensing 51 Goodman St. 320 University Hall Cincinnati, OH 45221-0089 513-558-1063 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top