Skip to main content Jump to main navigation Search content University of Pennsylvania | Penn University Life Search query Search Menu Search Student Involvement Fraternity and Sorority Life Office of Student Affairs Platt Student Performing Arts House Event Registration Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center La Casa Latina LGBT Center Makuu: The Black Cultural Center Pan-Asian American Community House Penn Women’s Center Student Supports Career Services Naval ROTC Penn Violence Prevention Student Intervention Services Weingarten Center Emergency and Opportunity Funding About Leadership Team Strategic Priorities Careers Give to University Life Space and Events Management Technology Services Brand Guidelines & Assets VPUL Home University Life at Penn nurtures an inclusive and loving campus life environment where students grow intellectually, engage in meaningful experiential opportunities, and deepen intercultural and interpersonal understanding in preparation for a life of meaning and purpose. University Life at Penn nurtures an inclusive and loving campus life environment where students grow intellectually, engage in meaningful experiential opportunities, and deepen intercultural and interpersonal understanding in preparation for a life of meaning and purpose. Life at Penn Stay up-to-date on campus events from University Life departments and other campus partners. Check back often as events are posted daily! Penn Vigil Take Back the Night Step Show Holi Procession of Flags Penn Lions Explore our Student Events Calendar Life at Penn Stay up-to-date on campus events from University Life departments and other campus partners. Check back often as events are posted daily! Explore Our Student Events Calendar Stories from Our Community ‘Selflessness and service’ Most 17-year-olds don’t know what they want to do for the next 10 years of their lives. However, May graduates Robert Blend, Allan Cate, and Read More » May 19, 2022 Projection and Pursuit: A Two-Fold Meaning of Longing University Life shares the wisdom of Sam Strickberger, ’22 Class Board President and speaker at this year’s Commencement Baccalaureate Ceremony. Sam’s speech, Projection and Pursuit: A Two-Fold Meaning of Longing, is an inspiring reflection on pursuing your passion. Read More » May 13, 2022 Leadership from the Lens of a Former Lawyer Forty years ago, Tamara Greenfield King, J.D. would have never imagined herself working in higher education, let alone in a senior leadership role on a college campus. Read More » May 6, 2022 Triple S Show Student Spotlight Today’s spotlight features Zaria Franklin, a senior in the College who has been actively involved with Greek Life at Penn. Zaria has been part of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority since 2019, surrounded by like-minded women with a purpose to serve their communities and build lifelong bonds along the way. Read More » April 29, 2022 I send you so much love and hope. When the sun rises tomorrow, let it be a reminder of the shining light within each of you. With love, Mamta Messages from Vice Provost Dr. Mamta Motwani Accapadi What a journey it has been! By now, you are settling into your living communities, among new and old friends, and ready for the upcoming school year. Spending time with many of you during move-in, I have been so moved by your stories of sacrifice and triumph, and our community is that much more precious because you are a part of it. Read More » Messages from Vice Provost Dr. Mamta Motwani Accapadi What a journey it has been! By now, you are settling into your living communities, among new and old friends, and ready for the upcoming school year. Spending time with many of you during move-in, I have been so moved by your stories of sacrifice and triumph, and our community is that much more precious because you are a part of it. Read More » Stories from Our Community Emergency and Opportunity Funding Guidelines on Open Expression Get to Know Us Two-minute video featuring University Life departments and services. Video Transcript Students walking down Locust Walk. University of Penn shield logo is shown. Text reads “University Life is All About You!.” Vice Provost Mamta Accapadi wearing a light blue polo shirt with an embroidered Penn Shield speaks outside on Locust Walk Voiceover of Mamta and footage of her speaking to students in an auditorium Voiceover of Mamta and footage of students walking in a group at the ARCH Text reads “Clubs & Activities.” Text reads “Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, OFSL”. Two students dance surrounded by peers wearing shirts with Greek letters. Text reads NROTC. Two students in NROTC uniforms hoist an American flag. Text reads “Office of Student Affairs, OSA,”. Students celebrate Hey Day outside, sporting their Hey Day straw hats , t-shirts, and canes. Text reads “PLATT Student Performing Arts House”. Students sing and dance on stage. Text reads “Cultural Resource Centers.” Text reads “GIC, Greenfield Intercultural Center, GIC”. Grass Dancers perform at a Native at Penn Powwow in the Hall of Flags. Text Reads “Center for Hispanic Excellence: La Casa Latina.” Students and staff socialize in the center. Text reads “Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Center, LGBT Center.” Staff works with a student in the center. Text reads “Makuu: The Black Cultural Center”. Student sits behind a desk and speaks to staff member at the Center. Text reads “PAACH, Pan Asian American Cultural Center”. Students and staff gather at a table in the center. Text reads “PWC, Penn Women’s Center.” Students march holding a “Take Back The Night” banner. Text reads “Student Supports“ Text reads “Career Services.” Students meet with employers at a career fair. Text reads “PVP, Penn Violence Prevention,” Staff leads a presentation on stage. Text reads “SIS Student Intervention Services” Staff member speaks to a student, both are indoors wearing masks. Text reads “Weingarten Center, Student Disability Services.” An interpreter signs to a group of student-athletes at an event. Text reads “Weingarten Center, Learning Resources.” A staff member works with a student on an assignment. Text reads “Weingarten Center, Tutoring Services.” A tutor works with a student. Text reads “Administrative Services.” Text reads “University Life Technology Services,” A staff member leads a presentation for her team. Text reads “University Life Strategic Initiatives and Operations.” Students make s’mores at a program in Houston Hall. Staff discusses a conference room. Text reads “Get to know us!” The LOVE statue on Penn’s campus is shown. Last frame, Penn University Life logo appears on screen. Play Video Student Supports Guidance on departments and staff to assist with any concern. Explore Faculty Resources Guidance for faculty helping students with concern. Explore Primary Footer Athletics Diversity Health & Wellness Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Resources University Life Calendar Student Jobs Help Contact Us Maps Parking University of Pennsylvania Address Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-6081 Legal Copyright Disclaimer Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Skip to content Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset