Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search Home Contact Information | Connect With Us Today Contact Us Reach Us by Phone, Mail or in Person We have staff available to answer any questions you might have. Please note we will continue to practice social distancing and ask all visitors to wear a mask upon entering indoor spaces. If you do not have a mask you will be provided one upon entry. Thank you for adhering to these guidelines as our priority is your safety. The University is receiving paper mail on a delayed schedule at this time due to policies regarding COVID-19. We encourage you to email any official or time-sensitive document to ugadm@saonet.ucla.edu. If you are a student or parent with questions about UCLA or the application process, we encourage you to email us at ugadm@saonet.ucla.edu or call our office at 310-825-3101. If you would like to reach someone else at UCLA, you can call UCLA Information at 310-825-4321. For international students with general inquiries and additional application materials, please call +1 310-825-1681 (voicemail only) or email oissassi@saonet.ucla.edu. Contacts Campus Directory Find contact information for faculty, staff and students as well as departments and offices in the Campus Directory. Campus Operator +1 310-825-4321 Emergency Hotline +1 (800) 900-UCLA (on-campus) +1 (310) 825-1234 (off-campus) Addresses Campus Address Find the location of people and departments in the Campus Directory Mailing Address Find the mailing address for people in the Campus Directory. For departments, refer to their website or our mailing address standards. Delivery Address To find delivery addresses for campus buildings, see page two of the UCLA Campus Map. Frequently Requested Admission and Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Financial Aid Housing and Dining Housing Services Dining Services Parking and Transportation UCLA Transportation Campus Events and Ticketing UCLA Events Office UCLA Central Ticket Office Employee Resources Campus Human Resources Media Inquiries News Media Contacts at UCLA Departments Programs and Majors Alumni UCLA Alumni Association Printable Directories Campus Departments Download the Campus Departments Directory for campus addresses and extensions. For off-campus dialing, find prefixes and extensions here. Health System Departments Download the Health Departments Directory for campus addresses and extensions. For off-campus dialing, find prefixes and extensions here. Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept