Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News Accelerated Bachelors/Masters Programs About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home Academics Undergraduate Studies A&S Programs of Distinction Accelerated Bachelors/Masters Programs AAA Dual Degree Programs The College of Arts and Sciences offers accelerated bachelors/masters degrees in select departments and programs. Students enrolled in these dual degree programs have the benefit of earning two degrees — one undergraduate and the other graduate — on an accelerated timeline. Accelerated Five-Year Programs Open All Tabs Biology Department of Biology offers a research-based 5-year BS/MS degree. Over the course of their senior year, plus one additional year of graduate study, students in the program will take graduate level courses, conduct independent research, and write a Master of Science thesis. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. James Baker j.baker2@miami.edu Chemistry The dual BS/MS in Chemistry is designed to provide students with hands-on training in research and analysis in a reduced timeframe of five years. This program will allow students to be more competitive in admissions to Ph.D. and M.D. programs, as well as in the employment market. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. Orlando Acevedo Orlando.acevedo@miami.edu Computer Science For students seeking accelerated experience in Computer Science, the Department of Computer Science offers a five-year BS/MS program. Incoming students can be admitted to the program if their mathematics placement is MTH108 or higher. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. Ubbo Visseru.visser@miami.edu History The Department of History offers a five-year program that combines a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree and a Master of Arts (MA) degree. The accelerated nature of the program enables students to take graduate-level courses in their final undergraduate year, then complete the Master’s degree in one year of full-time study, rather than the usual two years of full-time graduate study, and at a reduced cost. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Directors: Dr. Karl Gunther k.gunther@miami.edu and Dr. Michael Bernath mbernath@miami.edu Latin American Studies In this highly selective Honors Program, students follow a rigorous, accelerated curriculum to complete a dual degree (B.A./M.A.) in Latin American and Caribbean Studies in five years. The program provides exciting collaborative research, travel, and work opportunities. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Directors: Dr. John Twichell j.twichell@miami.edu and Dr. Eduardo Elena edelena@miami.edu Mathematical Finance The dual BS in Mathematics/MS in Mathematical Finance program is dedicated to producing technically trained professionals with an understanding of how to analyze and value complex investments, and assess the associated risks. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. Alexander Dvorsky a.dvorsky@math.miami.edu Public Administration The Bachelor’s in Political Science/Master of Public Administration five-year program allows students to complete an MPA with a reduced amount of time and credits. The MPA program is typically a 2-year, 48-credit program, but this dual degree allows students to complete the MPA in one year. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. Jennifer Connolly jmconnolly@miami.edu Available Six-Year Programs Open All Tabs Biochemistry & Molecular Biology (BS/PhD) The Dual-Degree Program in Biochemistry & Molecular Biology is offered to current students with strong academic ability and achievement who seek careers in biological or biomedical science. Students can earn both Bachelor of Science (B.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in approximately six years. Interested students may apply after the completion of their first year. Applications for the BS/PhD are due June 1. Click here to learn more about this program>> Faculty Director: Dr. Thomas K. Harris THarris@med.miami.edu Law (BA/JD) The Dual-Degree Program in Law is an exciting opportunity for current students interested in earning a law degree at the University of Miami. Through this program, current students with high academic ability gain admission to graduate study in the School of Law. Admissions Director: Katrin Hussmann Schroll kschroll@law.miami.edu Financial Aid Students enrolled in dual degree programs can also take advantage of applying their financial aid towards part of their graduate education. The plan of study for each program varies slightly. However, students may apply both merit and federal/state aid to cover up to 12 credits towards their graduate program. In addition, Florida Bright Futures Scholarships may be used towards one graduate term. Please contact the Office of Student Financial Assistance for more information. Fill out my online form. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices