By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity Disability Cultural Center More from this Section Report a Concern Diversity & Inclusion LGBTQ Resource Center Center for International Services Religious Groups STOP Bias and Hate Multicultural Affairs Accessible Syracuse Women in Leadership Initiative Disability Cultural Center Syracuse University established the Disability Cultural Center (DCC) to coordinate campus-wide social, educational, and cultural activities on disability issues for students, faculty, staff, and community members with and without disabilities. The Disability Cultural Center is the first of its kind in the United States to be housed within a student affairs organization, rather than a disability services office; it is also the first to be run by a full-time professional staff member. Syracuse's Disability Cultural Center has a purpose that is parallel to other cultural centers on campus, including the LGBT Resource Center, the Center for International Services, and the Office of Multicultural Affairs. Learn more about the DCC About The Disability Cultural Center will work to: Establish and celebrate a community that fosters pride in one’s identity and creates a culture of inclusion. Build a community that values the capabilities of all people and recognizes that all individuals have the potential to excel and contribute to the academic and social environment at Syracuse University and beyond. Serve as a meeting place for students, faculty, staff, and others who seek a safe environment in which all individuals are welcomed, respected, and included as full and equal members, within both the university and global communities. Serve as a catalyst for and a sponsor of a variety of essential programs, inside and outside of the classroom. The programs will heighten awareness and understanding, as well as promote dialogue and learning about disability rights as human rights. Programs will therefore emphasize that disability rights are expressions and forms of cultural diversity. Create programming that emphasizes but is not limited to advancing the civic, economic, and social participation of persons with disabilities in a global society. Serve as a resource for sharing information on media, periodicals and other readings, websites, services, advocacy groups, and local, regional, national, and international organizations that focus on disability issues, including the history of disability, pedagogy and disability, and disability culture. Work collaboratively with other campus organizations and offices that celebrate difference. Contact Diane R. Wiener, Ph.D., L.M.S.W. Director 315.443.4486 dwiener@syr.edu Kate Corbett Pollack Administrative Assistant kjpollac@syr.edu Related Pages Center for Disability Resources CDR engages the University community to empower students, enhance equity, and provide a platform for innovation and inclusion. Note-Taking Services Students with an authorized academic adjustment for note taking are encouraged to come to our office to discuss their specific note taking needs. Accessible Syracuse We seek to provide equal educational opportunities for all, including individuals with disabilities. Guide to Disability Language and Empowerment Information on the different types of language that are used frequently when communicating about disability. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy