Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Office of Admissions Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Office of AdmissionsOpen main menu Close Open search Why USU Back Why USU About Us Learning Research Traditions Athletics Recess College Town Aggie Life Visit Campus Back Visit Campus On-Campus Events Campus Tours Free Game Tickets Open Houses Apply Back Apply Undergraduates Admissions Requirements Checklist Residency Requirements Admissions FAQ Other Applicants Graduate Students International Concurrent Enrollment Deferment Back Deferment Deferment Process Checklist Returning from Deferment Deferment FAQs Cost & Aid Back Cost & Aid Cost & Aid Overview Tuition & Fees Scholarship Index Admissions Scholarships Financial Aid Scholarship Acceptance Scholarship Appeals Scholarship FAQ International Costs Academics Back Academics A-Z Undergraduate Majors Degree Finder Colleges Departments University Catalog AP/CLEP/IBO Options Student Resources Back Student Resources Academic Support Career Services Clubs & Involvement Disability Resources First-Generation Health & Wellness Inclusion Center Money Management Veterans & Military After Admission Back After Admission What's Next Social Media Virtual Assistance Orientation Housing Honors Program Jobs Involvement Registration Financial Aid Service Textbooks Course Prep Parents Undecided Contact Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Deferment Process A deferral is for students who have not started classes at USU, and need to delay their admission to a future semester. Students who have only completed concurrent enrollment classes will use a deferral to delay their admission. Info Do you need to submit a notification of leave instead? If you are a current USU student and need to take a leave of absence from the university, you will need to submit a notification of leave instead of deferment. Follow the process for notification of leave 1 Sign into your USU Application Account Sign into the account you used to apply to USU at applynow.usu.edu. If you can't remember your password click the Forgot Password link. If you forgot what email you used, our service desk can help you out! Please note: A deferral is for students who have not started classes at USU, and need to delay their admission to a future semester. Students who have only completed concurrent enrollment classes will use a deferral to delay their admission. 2 Fill out the Deferment Form After logging in, click continue under the actions column next to the application you wish to defer. When the next page loads, if it is not already selected click application, then click request deferral. 3 Check Your Email Deferment requests take from 7 - 10 business days to process, depending on the time of year. Make sure to check your email for updates. 4 Check Scholarships If you have a remaining scholarship from the USU Office of Admissions, it will automatically activate on your return semester. If you received any other scholarships, contact the USU regional campus, department, or other awarding entity to activate them for your return. Please visit usu.edu/scholarships for more information. 5 Financial Aid Complete your FAFSA for the semester of your return to USU (as early as October 1 before the academic year you plan to attend). The FAFSA must be resubmitted each year that you want aid. Please visit usu.edu/financialaid. 6 Become a Delegate If needed, set up a delegate and give him or her a copy of your information. Your delegate should be able to access your preferred email if you will not be checking it regularly. You can add delegates on myid.usu.edu. Sign-in and then click "Delegates" on the left menu. 7 Drop Courses You will need to drop your courses if you have registered for your courses when you complete you notification of leave. If you have already paid your tuition, you will need to contact USU Registrar to recieve a refund according to the deadlines in the catalog. 8 Complete the Deferment Checklist The deferment checklist has lots of helpful information. Make sure to complete the steps found there as well. How/can I extend my deferral? Submit a new deferral request and follow the deferral instructions if you have questions. These requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. In the free text reasoning box within the deferral request process, please state why you are wanting to extend your deferment. How/can I shorten by deferral? Email admit@usu.edu stating that you are wanting to shorten your deferment. Please include your A-number and which semester you would like to come back. Note: Students who are admitted to the USU Prep Academy are not allowed to defer to a summer semester and must begin during a fall or spring semester. What if I am a Graduate student? Graduate students file a notification of leave via a different process, and follow different policies than undergraduate students. For more information go to https://gradschool.usu.edu/leave-absence-continuous-registration/. What if I am an International Student? International students must contact the office of Global Engagement located in Military Science 115, by phone at 435-797-1124 or by email at usuintl@usu.edu or global.engagement@usu.edu. What if I am in the U.S. Armed Forces? USU is committed to providing the highest quality of service to service members who were unable to attend school due to military service. USU adheres to the provisions for U.S. Armed Forces members provided in Chapter 3 of Volume 2 of the Federal Student Aid Handbook. Please feel free to reach out to our Veterans Resource Office for any additional questions. Frequently Asked Questions Find more answers to commonly asked questions on the Frequently Asked Questions page. We'd love to talk: If you have any questions about Deferment, please feel free to contact us at admit@usu.edu or 1-800-488-8108. Overview Video Questions? Contact Us Email: admit@usu.edu Phone: 1-800-488-8108 or 435-797-1079 Office of Admissions CONTACT US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU Instagram 0160 Old Main Hill, TSC #102 Logan, UT 84322-0160 1-800-488-8108 admit@usu.edu GET STARTED Find a Major Find a Scholarship Attend an Event Tour Campus Preview Aggie Life Apply Online QUICK LINKS Apply Contact Us Directions Financial Aid / Cost School Counselors Mission & Assessment Apply Events Visit Campus Open House Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page