Skip to Main Content Brown University Anthropology Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Search Anthropology Anthropology The Department of Anthropology is home to a vibrant community of faculty, students, and staff broadly interested in the study of humanity, past and present. Anthropology The Department of Anthropology is home to a vibrant community of faculty, students, and staff broadly interested in the study of humanity, past and present. Brown's socio-cultural and linguistic anthropologists are engaged in ethnography across the globe. The department's anthropological archaeologists focus on the study of the material remains of the ancient, historic, and modern Americas. Current faculty and students are especially engaged in research related to issues of power, violence, politics, health, and population. Our Academic Programs Undergraduate Studies The undergraduate concentration in Anthropology involves training in the four subfields of anthropology: socio-cultural anthropology, archaeology, linguistic anthropology, and biological anthropology. Graduate Studies Brown University’s doctoral program allows students to pursue a wide range of ethnographic and theoretical interests, while integrating graduate students into the dynamic intellectual life of the department, university, and discipline through a holistic approach to the study of human sociality, past and present. Featured Content News Our faculty, students, and alumni are featured in stories linked here. Visit Page Open details for News Events Visit Page Open details for Events Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology The Haffenreffer is Brown’s teaching museum. A resource across the university, we inspire creative and critical thinking about culture by fostering interdisciplinary understanding of the material world. We provide opportunities for faculty and students to work with collections and the public. Visit Page Open details for Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology Brown Anthropology on Twitter Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Students Guest Speakers Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Who We Are People Faculty Bookshelf History Connect With Us Undergraduate Studies Concentration Requirements Tracks Courses Honors in Anthropology Engaged Scholarship Research & Fieldwork Beyond the Concentration Graduate Studies Ph.D. Program Funding Courses Current Students Graduates of the Program News Events Past Events Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Info For This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Anthropology Open details for Anthropology Bookmark this Page