Skip to site alert. Skip to content Schneeweiss Adult Congenital Heart Center Appointments Fellowship Make a Gift Search About Us Services Conditions We Treat Locations Research Specialized Care For Adult Congenital Heart Disease Patients Ranked #4 in the Nation for Cardiology and Heart Surgery An ACHA ACHD Accredited Comprehensive Care Center Single Ventricle Fontan Program Learn More Learn More Pregnancy and Congenital Heart Disease Learn More Learn More Our Team Meet Our Team Meet Our Team For patient convenience, the Schneeweiss Adult Congenital Heart Disease Center is proud to offer virtual visits for new and established patients through our telemedicine program. Please call our office for further details. Call 212-305-6936 for an appointment or a referral. 212-305-6936 News Columbia Schneeweiss Center Study Investigates Impact of COVID-19 and Congenital Heart Disease Source: U.S. News & World Report October 18, 2020 In what will come as reassuring news to those who were born with a heart defect, new research finds these people aren't at increased risk for moderate or severe COVID-19. Enrollment in Multicenter FOSTER Study has now been completed December 20, 2019 Enrollment has now been completed for the Fontan Outcomes Study to Improve Transplant Experience and Results (FOSTER) Study. Medical Marvels Source: ABC News October 24, 2018 Szymanski had multiple surgeries to correct her heart condition before the age of six. Blood clots at age 34 led her to Dr. Marlon Rosenbaum and the adult congenital heart disease team at Columbia. Center Receives Funding for Genomic Inquiry into Fontan-Associated Liver Disease The Schneeweis Center's Matthew Lewis, MD, received grant funding from the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research in conjunction with Columbia's Clinical Trials Office. Adult Congenital Heart Center Opens Westchester Location February 1, 2018 The Schneeweis Adult Congenital Heart Center opened a location in White Plains, New York, one of three satellite locations currently serving patients in the greater metropolitan area. View All News Make a Gift Your gift to the Schneeweiss Adult Congenital Heart Center will make a difference in the lives of countless adults who live with congenital heart disease. Make a Gift Locations The Schneeweiss Adult Congenital Heart Center is located in northern Manhattan, with satellite locations in Connecticut, Long Island, and White Plains. Locations Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services Conditions We Treat Locations Research Fellowship Division of Cardiology Appointments Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top