Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Support Supporting student success One of the most meaningful ways to support your UW student is by contributing to the UW Parent & Family Fund for Student Success. Gifts to this fund support critical programs and resources for our students, like 24/7 access to mental health counselors and emergency aid. Your support enriches the undergraduate experience from move-in through graduation, including leadership opportunities, undergraduate research and career development. Thank you for your support of our Huskies! We are so grateful to UW Families! Making an Impact 24/7 access to mental health services for all Huskies A student’s mental well-being can greatly impact their academic performance, their ability to persist in their education, and the quality of their Husky Experience. Your gift to the UW Parent & Family Fund helps us provide students access to immediate, confidential mental wellness conversations and crisis intervention support, 24 hours a day/7 days a week by phone and online chat. Student safety – Husky Nightwalk The Husky NightWalk Program was created with a generous gift by a Husky parent in 2017. Your gift to the UW Parent & Family Fund helps us continue to provide walking escorts to our students within the campus locations and the residential area north of 45th St., and to the UW Tower, and meet our growing safety needs. Student Emergency Fund Unexpected events and expenses are stressful and impact a student’s academic success, personal well-being and sometimes their ability to remain at the UW. Your gift to the UW Parent & Family Fund helps fund modest grants of emergency aid to students with significant financial need who are experiencing unexpected hardships that disrupt their education or prevent them from earning their degree. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA