Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Visit Cornell Seeing Is Believing Explore campus from anywhere. Visit Virtually Visit Cornell’s Ithaca Campus Your browser does not support this video. Approved visitors must follow all public health guidance, including wearing masks when in certain settings, including in classrooms and laboratories, at healthcare and testing facilities, and on public transportation. View Cornell's mask policy. The Martin Y. Tang Welcome Center located on North Campus. Welcome to Cornell! Established in 1865, Cornell University is a privately endowed research university and a partner of the State University of New York. Unique within the Ivy League, we make contributions in all fields of knowledge in a manner that prioritizes public engagement to help improve the quality of life in our state, the nation and the world. Visitor Relations is the front door to exploring Cornell’s Ithaca campus, providing information and tours to prospective students and families, alumni and Ithaca area visitors. The Martin Y. Tang Welcome Center is open to visitors Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 5p.m. and Saturdays from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Visitor Relations staff are available to assist and answer general questions via (607) 254-4636 (INFO) or info@cornell.edu. A glimpse into the campus experience VIEW BY CHAPTER Select a Chapter 1. History & Traditions 2. First Year on Campus 3. Resources 4. Libraries 5. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences 6. Research 7. Dining & Housing 8. College of Arts and Sciences 9. College of Human Ecology 10. Pre-Professional Tracks 11. Cornell Health 12. College of Engineering 13. Student Life 14. College of Architecture, Art and Planning 15. School of Industrial and Labor Relations 16. ROTC & Athletics 17. Cornell SC Johnson College of Business 18. Ithaca Community Close Virtual Visits Visitor Relations and the Undergraduate Admissions Office will continue to offer both recorded and virtual livestream campus tours and information sessions for anyone who may want to learn more about Cornell without visiting campus. Please visit admissions.cornell.edu/virtualvisit for the full list of virtual options or register for virtual live events. In-Person Campus Tours Registration is required for all campus tours. Capacity will be limited, so please register in advance of your trip to Ithaca. In-person campus tours are geared toward the undergraduate student experience and last roughly 75 minutes. Tours are held rain or shine so please dress appropriately. Visitors must follow all public health guidance, including Cornell's mask policy. Register Now Special & Group Tours We are currently unable to accommodate special requests for groups and specialized tours. Please check this website for updates. Contact For any inquiries, please contact us at 607-254-INFO (4636) or info@cornell.edu. Explore the Campus Students share their favorite spots on campus. Continue Exploring … Back to top About Cornell Student Life Admissions Financial Aid Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube