Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Graduate School Skip to Navigation Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Academy in Context The Academy in Context aims to foster a stronger sense of community among Brown's graduate students. The dinner-seminar series provides a venue for meaningful interactions and discussion on topics of interest across disciplines, typically concerning ethics. BEST Program The Brown Executive Scholars Training (BEST) Program is designed to help prepare advanced master’s students and doctoral candidates for careers in higher education administration. Effective Performance The Effective Performance workshop series is designed to introduce graduate students to performance values, drawn from improvisational and theatrical techniques, to improve their communication and presentation skills. In 2015-16, the Graduate School and Trinity Repertory Theater are piloting two workshops per semester: a five-session workshop series and a one-time three-hour workshop. Mellon Workshops The Mellon Graduate Student Workshops are a wonderful resource for dissertating humanities and humanistic social science students. Intended to both provide a means by which to facilitate dissertation completion and to foster communication across disciplines within the academy, the workshops are student organized and address questions relevant to the research of the participants. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items External Funding CareerLAB Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning The Versatile Ph.D. Responsible Conduct of Research Research Matters! Talks Library Research Help Page Professional Development Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants