UPENN About Who We Are What We Do Campuses News Room Diversity at Penn Vet Our History Events Maps & Directions Penn Vet COVID-19 Information Education VMD Admissions Incoming VMD Students Graduate Programs Dual Degree Programs Continuing Education Clinical Training Research Training Accreditation Research Areas of Research Centers, Laboratories & Initiatives Clinical Trials | VCIC Academic Departments Core Resources & Facilities News, Events & Conferences Giving Training Future Leaders Supporting Faculty Expertise Delivering Exceptional Care Meet the Team How to Support Penn Vet People Faculty Faculty/Clinician Search Alumni Find a VMD Contact Penn Vet Vet Hospitals New Bolton Center Care for horses & livestock/farm animals New Bolton COVID-19 Updates Emergencies Appointments Clinical Services Diagnostic Laboratories Facilities Get Directions News & Events Referring Veterinarians Ryan Veterinary Hospital Care for cats, dogs & other companion animals Ryan Hospital COVID19 Updates Emergencies Appointments Clinical Services Diagnostic Laboratories Facilities Get Directions About Ryan Hospital Referring Veterinarians Contact New Bolton Center Kennett Square, PA Emergencies & Appointments: 610-444-5800 Directions Ryan Hospital Philadelphia, PA Emergencies: 215-746-8911 Appointments: 215-746-8387 Directions facebook twitter instagramm flickr youtube Home About Campuses New Bolton Center Campus About Who We Are What We Do Campuses New Bolton Center Campus Philadelphia Campus News Room Diversity at Penn Vet Our History Events Contact Penn Vet Maps & Directions Penn Vet COVID-19 Information New Bolton Center Penn Vet’s New Bolton Center Campus, which opened in 1952, is located in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania on 700 pastoral acres in Chester County. The campus offers some of the finest veterinary services available anywhere in the country for horses, cattle, camelids, pigs, goats, sheep and other large animals. Most notably, New Bolton Center's Hospital for Large Animals, which opened in 1964, provides a standard of care that is internationally renowned. With a long history of excellence, it enjoys one of the largest caseloads of any academic large animal hospital in the country. The hospital provides inpatient and outpatient services, accommodating more than 6,200 patient visits each year. Our equine and food animal Field Services have gone out on more than 5,500 farm service calls, treating some 18,700 patients at local farms. We strive to provide the finest in both emergency and routine veterinary patient care for all species of large animals, to strive to better understand animal disease processes, and to be leaders in the area of animal health and productivity for the betterment of society. New Bolton Center is also world-renowned for its groundbreaking research centers and laboratories, investigating topics ranging from food production in dairy cattle and swine, reference andrology, equine pharmacology, reproduction, behavior, and comparative orthopedics. Our facilities follow green technology and sustainable practices including growing our own feed crops, and the campus is also home to a sustainable forest. How to Find Us Directions to New Bolton Center Address: University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine New Bolton Center 382 West Street Road Kennett Square, PA 19348 Phone Numbers: Hospital: 610-444-5800 Administration: 610-925-6320 Precise diagnosis is imperative in determining successful treatment protocols. For that reason, New Bolton Center offers a range of diagnostic services through its many diagnostic laboratories. These include: What's at Our New Bolton Center Campus New Bolton Center Hospital Our board-certified clinicians and faculty provide both inpatient and outpatient services, accommodating more than 6,200 patient visits each year. Our equine experts offer services that range from primary care through the most complicated and sophisticated medical and surgical techniques in use today. A leader in equine diagnostics, the hospital operates state-of-the-art equine sports medicine and diagnostic imaging facilities in conjunction with high-speed treadmill services. Learn more about New Bolton Center's Hospital and the clinical services we offer... William B. Boucher Field Service The William Boucher Field Service at New Bolton Center provides routine and emergency health care for equine and food animal clients within a 30-mile radius of the hospital. The group's specialists offer preventative health care, reproductive services, evaluation and treatment of lameness, medical and surgical disorders and on-farm diagnostic services. Learn more about Field Service... Marshak Dairy Built in 1996, the greenhouse dairy was the first of its kind and was recognized as a dairy of distinction in 1998. The greenhouse design uses natural lighting and excellent ventilation within the barn to promote a healthy environment for the cows. Learn more about the Marshak Dairy... Swine Group The Penn Vet Swine Group comprises swine production medicine and swine reproduction research, and research in swine welfare behavior. We offer modern and humane models for swine facilities, the Pennsylvania Regional Control Program for swine disease, and a laboratory dedicated to the differential diagnosis of individual/herd/flock reproductive problems. Learn more about the Swine Group... Research Initiatives Marshak Dairy Wildlife Futures Program Research Centers & Laboratories Animal Model Core & Comparative Orthopedic Research Lab (CORL) The Animal Model Core at Penn Vet New Bolton Center at the intersection of science and the rapid advancements in health care technology is an ecosystem supporting the continuum from discovery to invention to innovation in medical translation. We are invested in understanding the value proposition of emerging technologies under consideration and how they target unmet clinical needs. This process informs animal model development to enhance scientific rigor during in vivo studies in experimental or naturally occurring disease models. Studies can be iterative starting on a small scale leading towards pivotal non-clinical IND/IDE-enabling trials in support of FDA or OUS-FDA submissions. Read More About The Animal Model Core & Comparative Orthopedic Research Lab (CORL) ASMG Laboratory - Microbial Genomics PLOS ONE Paper Among 100 Most Read Worldwide Editors have selected Dr. Pitta's PLOS ONE paper, “Temporal changes in the fecal bacterial community in Holstein dairy calves from birth through the transition to a solid diet,” to be highlighted on the journal homepage. The journal's editor, Nicola Stead, PhD, Senior Editor, PLOS ONE, states, "We very much enjoyed reading about your work and would like to thank you for submitting your paper to PLOS ONE." The Agricultural Systems and Microbial Genomics Laboratory (ASMG Laboratory) was established to support Dr. Dou and Dr. Pitta in their research endeavors. Dr. Pitta is the ruminant nutrition and microbiologist at the Center for Animal Health and Productivity (CAHP), New Bolton Center, University of Pennsylvania. Research at the ASMG lab focuses primarily on the gut microbial composition of ruminants utilizing advanced molecular methodologies. The alimentary tract of a ruminant is colonized by millions of microbes living in a symbiotic relationship with the host. Therefore, knowledge of the microbial composition of the entire gut can provide insights into improving the overall health and productivity of the animal. Our research also has broad environmental implications into such diverse applications as methane mitigation, reduction of the spread of antibiotic resistance, and human health. The recent advent of next generation sequencers has greatly enhanced our ability to explore community microbial populations. The ASMG lab has the capabilities to perform genomic, metagenomic, and metatranscriptomic studies including sample preparation, genomic DNA and RNA extraction, and generation of 16S amplicon libraries for sequencing on next-generation platforms. The sequenced data is analyzed at the ASMG laboratory utilizing the appropriate bioinformatics tools for data interpretation. The ASMG group collaborates with other researchers and clinicians both within the University of Pennsylvania as well as at other institutions. Our research is routinely published and presented at conferences. We also work with students from multiple backgrounds, ranging from high school through postdoctoral, who have used their time in our lab to further develop their knowledge of microbial genomics and its applications. Read More About The ASMG Laboratory - Microbial Genomics Center for Animal Health & Productivity (CAHP) The Center for Animal Health and Productivity (CAHP) was established in 1986 to implement teaching, research and service programs directed toward the improvement of health and productivity in food animal herds and flocks. These programs involve an integrated approach making use of our expertise in clinical nutrition, reproduction, health economics, and computer science, in addition to conventional specialties in veterinary medicine. Our focus is the maintenance of physical and economic health in the whole animal population rather than clinical treatment of individual sick animals. Read More About The Center for Animal Health & Productivity (CAHP) Equine Pharmacology Research Laboratory Our Mission: The mission of the Equine Pharmacology Laboratory at New Bolton Center is to promote the welfare of the working horse and the integrity of sport through pharmacological and forensic research. Learn about us and our research... Read More About The Equine Pharmacology Research Laboratory Galantino-Homer Laminitis Laboratory Laminitis is a common and debilitating disease that affects the folded and interdigitating tissues, called the lamellae, which connect the hoof wall to the underlying tissues of the horse’s foot. The lamellae normally allow the transfer of the horse's weight from the skeletal elements of the digit to the hoof wall. Dr. Galantino-Homer founded the Laminitis Laboratory at New Bolton Center in 2008. The Laminitis Laboratory was formed in part due to the tragic loss of the 2006 Kentucky Derby winner, Barbaro, to laminitis in January, 2007. Our goal is to employ cell and molecular biology methods to better understand laminitis pathogenesis in order to improve the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of this disease. Our studies include the investigation of laminitis pathogenesis using protein biochemistry, gene expression, and histological analysis, identification of diagnostic serum biomarkers for laminitis, characterization of the keratin proteins that determine the mechanical properties of the hoof lamellae and the effect of laminitis on keratins and associated cell adhesion proteins, the impact of cell stress pathways on laminitis, characterization of the epidermal stem cell population in the lamellae, and establishing an in vitro culture system for equine hoof epidermal cells to minimize the use of live horses for laminitis research. Learn About Our Work From the Laminitis Discovery Database (LDD) to ongoing, collaborative research studies, the Galantino-Homer Laminitis Laboratory has focused on this all too common disease for more than two decades. Learn more about our work. Explore what we do. Read More About The Galantino-Homer Laminitis Laboratory Havemeyer Equine Behavior Research Lab The Equine Behavior Program and Laboratory at New Bolton Center has grown from within the Section of Reproductive Studies. Since the early 1980s the program, has had research as its core activity. The program has included involvement in related clinical and teaching in the veterinary school and continuing education programs nationally and internationally. The initial research focus of the laboratory was on stallion reproductive physiology and behavior. Early research concentrated on the physiology and pharmacology of libido, erection, and ejaculation, with immediate application to clinical problems in breeding stallions and with relevance to the understanding of human sexual dysfunction. Another long-standing research interest of our laboratory has been the effects of experience on sexual function. In the 1990s our research and clinical work expanded beyond stallions to include reproductive and general behavior problems of horses. The Behavior Lab is housed in The Havemeyer Barn at The Georgia and Philip Hofmann Center for Animal Reproduction. Read More About The Havemeyer Equine Behavior Research Lab Marshak Dairy The Marshak Dairy is named in honor of Robert Marshak, the ninth dean of the School of Veterinary Medicine whose support was instrumental in establishing the farm. Built in 1996, the greenhouse dairy was the first of its kind and was recognized as a dairy of distinction in 1998. The greenhouse design uses natural lighting and excellent ventilation within the barn to promote a healthy environment for the cows. The Marshak Dairy provides an easily accessible working dairy farm for research trials. In addition, the Dairy serves as a laboratory for teaching students on topics related to cow healthcare, preventive medicine, nutrition and food safety. Read More About The Marshak Dairy Ortved Orthopedic Regenerative Medicine Laboratory Joint injuries are overwhelmingly common in both human and equine athletes. Chondrocytes, the sole cell type in cartilage, are responsible for producing and maintaining the extra-cellular matrix (ECM), which affords remarkable tensile and compressive strength to the joint surface. Once damaged, cartilage has little to no ability to heal itself. Therefore, post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) commonly develops following joint trauma, whether sustained during an acute injury or accumulated overtime. Lab Mission To improve cartilage repair using stem cell and gene therapy. To limit the long-term effects of joint trauma through gene therapy immunomodulation of the joint. To further elucidate the pathogenesis of post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA). Read More About The Ortved Orthopedic Regenerative Medicine Laboratory PEARL-Penn Equine Assisted Reproduction Laboratory Led by Katrin Hinrichs, DVM, PhD, DACT, the Harry Werner Endowed Professor of Equine Medicine and Chair of the Department of Clinical Studies-New Bolton Center, the Penn Equine Assisted Reproduction Laboratory (PEARL) performs both research and clinical work in equine assisted reproduction. The Laboratory conducts research into equine sperm capacitation (readiness for fertilization), oocyte maturation, intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), standard in vitro fertilization, and equine embryo development, and is one of the few laboratories in the United States performing clinical ICSI to produce foals from client mares and stallions. Dr. Hinrichs has pioneered research in these areas, producing the first foal from ICSI and embryo culture in North America in 2003, and the first cloned horse foal in North America in 2005. Dr. Hinrichs’ research has established methods for equine assisted reproductive techniques that are now used clinically worldwide, including methods for successfully holding and shipping equine oocytes, for performing equine embryo biopsy, which allows genetic diagnosis of embryos before transfer to avoid production of foals with genetic diseases, and methods for successful vitrification (freezing) of expanded equine blastocysts, which allows embryos to be produced from older or valuable mares year-round while still supporting the production of foals that have early birth dates. Read More About The PEARL-Penn Equine Assisted Reproduction Laboratory Reference Andrology Laboratory Impact of COVID-19 on Our Operations As of Friday, March 13, 2020, Penn Vet New Bolton Center’s Reference Andrology Laboratory (RAL) remains open and fully operational for normal business hours and services. We will continue to provide our regular services in response to client needs. Please contact us at 610-925-6562 for any questions. The Reference Andrology Laboratory provides complete testing of neat, cooled and frozen-thawed semen from mammalian and avian species. The primary purpose of these services is to aid practitioners in their differential diagnosis of individual/herd/flock reproductive problems. These services are also frequently used by practitioners and studs as a third-party quality control component in an ongoing stud auditing process. The laboratory strives to perform objective, validated techniques for assessing samples for the basic spermiogram parameters of sample volume, motility, morphology, and concentration. With advanced notification, we will also try to accommodate requests for supplemental assessment techniques on sperm subcellular structures. We also offer semen extender analysis and microbiological testing of the extended semen product and purified water used in extenders. Read More About The Reference Andrology Laboratory Swine Teaching and Research Center Today the US swine industry finds itself confronted with rapidly changing public opinion and policy on how gestating sows should be housed. Penn Vet is uniquely positioned to provide the industry with relevant scientific data collected from this living laboratory. Read More About The Swine Teaching and Research Center van Eps Laminitis Laboratory Over the last decade, the members of the van Eps Laboratory have recognized key differences (and some similarities) in the initial events that lead to the three types of laminitis: Sepsis-related laminitis (SRL) Endocrinopathic laminitis (associated with insulin dysregulation/hyperinsulinemia) Supporting limb laminitis (SLL) A focus on these early events is leading to a better understanding of why laminitis occurs in different clinical situations and is helping to identify therapeutic targets. Our goal is to identify the key pathophysiological events that lead to different forms of laminitis in order to develop clinically applicable means of preventing this crippling equine disease. Read More About The van Eps Laminitis Laboratory Pennsylvania Animal Diagnostic Laboratories Expand all Collapse all Microbiology Laboratory (PADLS) Microbiology Laboratory (PADLS) The microbiology laboratory is separated into three subgroups: Clinical Microbiology, Molecular Microbiology, and PEQAP. Located in the Myrin Building on the New Bolton Campus, the Clinical Microbiology laboratory is equipped with the latest technology and a knowledgeable support staff to provide diagnostic microbiology testing. Consultation and field investigation are also available. Testing includes aerobic, anaerobic, and fungal culture, and antibiotic susceptibility testing. Molecular Microbiology uses sophisticated techniques to isolate and identify viruses and bacteria including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR. These methods are commonly used to identify Avian Influenza, Salmonella spp., and Streptococcus equi (Strangles). In addition to standard microbiological testing, the microbiology laboratory also performs egg testing as part of the Pennsylvania Egg Quality Assurance Program (PEQAP) and the FDA Egg Safety Rule. Farms that participate in these programs demonstrate their concern about food safety and produce a quality egg which helps to assure consumer confidence in eggs. As part of PADLS, the microbiology laboratory supports PADLS' program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read More About The Microbiology Laboratory (PADLS) Mammalian Pathology Laboratory (PADLS) Mammalian Pathology Laboratory (PADLS) The Mammalian Pathology Service at New Bolton Center provides complete necropsy and biopsy services to the patients of New Bolton and referrals from veterinarians throughout the state. Immunohistochemistry adds a special dimension to Widener Hospital’s diagnostic service and to the work of Penn researchers. This special staining technique uses color-labeled antibodies to identify infectious agents and special cell components in histology sections. As part of PADLS, the Mammalian Pathology Service supports PADLS’ program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read More About The Mammalian Pathology Laboratory at New Bolton Center (PADLS) Avian Pathology Laboratory (PADLS) Avian Pathology Laboratory (PADLS) The Avian Pathology service strives to provide the best possible diagnostic service to Pennsylvania and regional producers, hatcheries, service personnel, feed companies, and breeder companies. Over the past decade, the service has expanded to include pet bird cases submitted by regional veterinarian, pigeons, waterfowl and birds of prey cases submitted by local wildlife organizations, backyard poultry flocks, and exhibition/show birds. Services include avian necropsies, serologic testing, virus isolation, and PCR. The board certified veterinary staff is not only qualified to provide accurate diagnostics but also advise on the treatment, control, and eradication of infectious diseases. Avian field investigation also adds to the array of services available. As part of PADLS, the Avian Pathology service supports PADLS’ program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read More About The Avian Pathology Laboratory (PADLS) Toxicology Laboratory (PADLS) Toxicology Laboratory (PADLS) Located in the Myrin Building on the New Bolton Campus, the toxicology laboratory is equipped with the latest technology and a knowledgeable support staff to provide full veterinary diagnostic toxicology services. Animals can be exposed to toxic chemicals in a number of ways: ingestion of contaminated feed or foreign objects, inhalation, or skin contact. Through identification of such toxic chemicals, the toxicology laboratory helps to diagnose and prevent toxicosis in agricultural animals, pets, and wildlife. In addition to toxins, the laboratory has the ability to identify the levels of nutritionally relevant compounds including metals and vitamin E in animal samples. As part of PADLS, the toxicology lab supports PADLS' program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read more about the New Bolton Center Toxicology Laboratory PADLS Aquaculture (PADLS) Aquaculture (PADLS) The Aquaculture Laboratory provides necropsy and diagnostic testing of commercial and ornamental fish. With facilities at both NBC and the Manheim Field Office, the Aquaculture Laboratory is easily accessible for live fish drop-off. The laboratory provides testing for diagnostics purposes only. Any regulatory testing should be submitted through the Pennsylvania Veterinary Laboratory. More information can be found on the PADLS website. As part of PADLS, the Aquaculture Laboratory supports PADLS’ program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read More About The Aquaculture (PADLS) Field Office Lancaster County (PADLS) Field Office Lancaster County (PADLS) Located in the northwest part of Lancaster County, the Field Office is a convenient location for veterinarians, farmers, and wildlife rehabilitators living in the western part of the county. The Field Office provides services in both avian pathology and aquaculture including necropsies of birds and fish and sample drop-off for microbiological testing, serology, and toxicology. Clinical and environmental samples received at the Field Office are taken to New Bolton Center for testing. As part of PADLS, the Field Office supports PADLS’ program objectives and mission. The combined resources and technical expertise of leading scientists at PADLS laboratories provide state-of-the-art diagnostic technology supporting veterinarians’ efforts to advance animal and public health initiatives and support producers in assuring a safe, secure, and abundant food supply. Read More About The Field Office Lancaster County (PADLS) Resources Apply to Penn Vet Maps & Directions Contact Penn Vet Accreditation Penn Vet Library Staff Portal Emergency Information Student Portal Connect Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr RSS Legal Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Copyright Info Privacy Disclaimer ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, School of Veterinary Medicine 3800 Spruce Street - Philadelphia, PA 19104