Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Gene Andrew Jarrett Dean of the Faculty Website Office of the Dean of the Faculty Phone 609-258-5885 Bio As Dean of the Faculty, Gene Andrew Jarrett oversees and supports Princeton’s faculty, professional researchers, professional specialists and professional librarians. Jarrett has a long career as an influential academic administrator, professor and scholar of African American literary studies. He earned his bachelor’s degree in English from Princeton in 1997, and received his master’s and doctoral degrees in English from Brown University. Prior to his role at Princeton, Jarrett was the Seryl Kushner Dean of the College of Arts and Science and Professor of English at New York University. Before joining NYU, Jarrett was a Professor of English and faculty administrator at Boston University (BU) from 2007-17. Jarrett’s faculty career began in 2002 at the University of Maryland, College Park, where he started as an assistant professor of English. He is the author of two acclaimed books and the editor of eight more books on African American literature and literary criticism. For this scholarship he has won awards from the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University and the American Council of Learned Societies. His third authored book, a comprehensive biography of the legendary African American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar, is forthcoming from Princeton University Press. In 2012, Jarrett was elected Chair of the American Literature Section (ALS), at that time the largest component section of the Modern Language Association of America (MLA). He recently served on the Association of American Universities’ (AAU) Advisory Board for Racial Equity in Higher Education, and the AAU subcommittee on faculty and graduate student recruitment. Our Leadership Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice