Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Resources right arrow down arrow Student Resources right arrow down arrow Registration right arrow down arrow Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team right arrow down arrow CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology right arrow down arrow Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals right arrow down arrow Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation right arrow down arrow Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Faculty Resources right arrow down arrow Academic Accommodations and Faculty Responsibility COVID-19 Resources for Faculty Policies and Grievance Procedure Electronic Accessibility AR Staff Home » Campus Life » Accessibility Resources » Student Resources » Registration Set Navigation title in component Registration Online Application for Services Registration FAQ Communication Access Team CAT Resources Interpreter/CART/Captioning Request Form Semester Services Request Form Feedback Form Accommodation Form Purpose and Explanation Accessible Technology Alternative Format Request Policy and Procedure Alternative Format Request Form Service Animals and Assistance Animals Assistance Animal Student Request Form Service Animal and Assistance Animal Policy Housing Accommodation Student Housing Accommodation Request Form College-to-Career Partnership Remote Testing Accommodations FAQ COVID-19 Resources for Students Accommodation Form Request Registration At the University of Cincinnati, students are our first priority. To ensure that Accessibility Resources has an opportunity to engage each student to determine their disability related needs, we’ve developed a simple two-step process to receive our services. Temporary Assistance If you are a student who would like to request assistance due to injury, illness, hospitalization, or unexpected life events (e.g., broken bones, unexpected or prolonged illness, recovery from surgery, death in the family, etc.): visit the Temporary Impairment Assistance Information and Request page and complete a CARE report (see link at the bottom of the Temporary Assistance Information & Request page). Registration FAQ To read student and parent most frequently asked questions, visit our Registration FAQ page. Registration Step 1: Complete an Online Application for Services and Upload Documentation Students who require academic accommodations due to a disability will initiate the registration process by completing an Online Application for Services. Documentation is not required to register for services. However, if it is available, it can be a useful tool and help to ensure that the full consideration of the impact of your disability on the academic environment is considered. If you would like to submit documentation, please use our Documentation Submission Form. Additionally, the reasonableness and necessity of requested accommodations may not be able to be determined without it, so students may be requested to provide documentation if: Documentation would help the student and AR staff identify barriers and workable solutions for accommodations Documentation would make the connection between the academic environment and the disability that is not readily apparent through the student’s narrative We can accept documentation from a variety of sources including; IEPs, 504 Plans, psychological evaluations, medical records and letters provided by qualified medical professionals. Students may also request their medical professional complete a Medical Professional Disability Verification Form. Step 2: Student Registration Meeting Once students have submitted their application, and uploaded any relevant documentation or additional paperwork, they will receive an email regarding the status of their application within 5 business days. This email will have instructions on how to schedule their registration meeting. Accommodations are determined on a case-by-case basis through an interactive dialogue at their registration meeting. This meeting is the student's opportunity to share their past experiences and what is currently or may be impactful during their collegiate studies. During the registration meeting, students and their Accommodation Coordinator (AC) will discuss the impact of their disability/disabilities within the academic setting, identify barriers that may be present during their time at the University of Cincinnati, and what accommodations are reasonable and appropriate. Registration is considered complete after the meeting is concluded. Registration meetings are offered in-person, via phone, or virtually, via Teams or Zoom platforms. During summer 2022, registration meetings will be offered primarily online or via phone. In-person registration meetings will be considered upon request, but may be limited due to staff availability. Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Accessibility Resources University of Cincinnati 210 University Pavilion PO Box 210213 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0213 Tel: (513) 556-6823 Fax: (513) 556-1383 Email: accessresources@uc.edu © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top