Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. African American Cultural & Resource Center AACRC right arrow down arrow About Us right arrow down arrow Our Staff Programs right arrow down arrow Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka right arrow down arrow Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Student Groups right arrow down arrow Brother 2 Brother Habari Gani Ambassadors Sisters Impacting Sisters (S.I.S.) The Center right arrow down arrow Reserve the AACRC AACRC Reservation Policies Home » Campus Life » AACRC » Programs » Kuamka Set Navigation title in component Tyehimba Akwaaba Black Student Welcome Kuamka Kuinuka Scholarships Spring Break Tour Transitions B.A.S.E. ALLC Talk About It Tuesday Kuamka Kuamka is a Swahili term that means "in the beginning" and celebrates with a week full of exciting events highlighting Black excellence, sponsored by the African American Cultural & Resource Center. For the co-ed leadership competition our candidates will select platforms ranging from the importance of mentorship, increasing dialogue for racial and cultural reconciliation, creating awareness & prevention strategies to combat bullying, to name a few. Candidates will also participate in an essay, interview, question and answer and talent competitions. Kujifunza Ceremony and Graduate Student Spotlight Kujifunza is the Swahili word for “learn” and is an Afrocentric ceremony which recognizes the academic achievements of University of Cincinnati students. The Graduate Student Spotlight Ceremony is similar to the Kujifunza Ceremony, focusing on the accomplishments graduate students have completed and the strive they have made on UC’s campus and their scholarly work. In this program, we give a platform for graduate and professional students to discuss and reveal their research, publications, and goals to the community and build with the AACRC family an inclusive, educational, and fulfilling experience for young leaders. The Kujifunza Ceremony and Graduate Student Spotlight take place during the Red, Black, Green, and Gold Ball in TUC Great Hall. African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati African American Cultural & Resource Center 60 W. Charlton Cincinnati OH 45219 513-556-1177 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top