Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TECHniques Center Menu Search TTU TECHniques Center TECHniques Center Announcements Let's Get Social! Twitter Facebook Instagram Tweets by @TECHniquesTTU TECHniques Center We're More Than Just Tutoring The TECHniques Center is a fee-for-service program of Student Disability Services (SDS), and the only tutoring program of its kind in Texas. The TECHniques Center provides supplemental academic support services to meet the needs and to promote the retention of undergraduate students with documented evidence of learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADD or ADHD), and/or Autism Spectrum disorders. Our goal is to support students in becoming independent, self-advocates, accomplishing their educational goals, and making education accessible to those who learn differently. Students who are interested in our program must be accepted, undergraduate Texas Tech students and: apply and be approved for services with SDS apply and be approved for services with the TECHniques Center complete the required SDS intake. Why Should You Consider Our Program? Our students are consistently successful. We are proud to share that students who successfully complete the semester with us have an average 97-99% retention rate to the university. In addition, the TECHniques Center offers consistent, one-on-one tutoring throughout the week with assigned tutors and weekly sessions with an academic counselor. Our program is certified through the College Reading and Learning Association (CRLA), and each semester tutors earn a tutor certification level in order to best assist our students. "I can only give my highest praises to the TECHniques Center at Texas Tech University. My success as an undergraduate student is directly correlated with the support provided by the staff in TECHniques Center..." View other success stories This Is Also a Great Place to Be a Tutor The TECHniques Center is an excellent on-campus employer which provides tutors with lots of paid training, professional development opportunities, and the opportunity to become a CRLA certified tutor. Tutors gain valuable skills and develop a unique resume or C.V. item, and we believe in creating a positive and supportive work environment. The TECHniques Center is always recruiting tutors. Apply today! For more information, please email Program Director, Sharon Betzold or call 806.742.1822 Quick Links Apply to the TECHniques Center Complete your SDS application Apply to tutor with us TECHniques Center Home Page SDS Home Page SDS & TC Scholarships SDS & TC Scholarships FAQ TECHniques Center Blog Subscribe to our Newsletter Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents TECHniques Center Address 1H1 Weeks Hall, Box 45007 Phone 806.742.1822 Email techniques.center@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 21, 2022 10:10 AM TECHniques Center About Us TECHniques Center About Us Back Overview Academic Counseling Tutoring Services Student Success Stories Tutor Success Stories Meet the Staff Tutors TECHniques Center Tutors Back Tutoring Overview Prospective Tutors Tutor Resources Tutor Training Tutor FAQs Students TECHniques Center Students Back Future Students TECHniques Center Students Future Students Back Transition from High School Application Process Fees for the Program Current Students TECHniques Center Students Current Students Back TECHniques Center Orientation Apply for Scholarships Give to TECHniques Student Disability Services Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index