Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Dr. Anthony Fauci will speak at Princeton’s 2022 Class Day Emily Aronson, Office of Communications March 18, 2022, 11:30 a.m. The Class of 2022 announced Friday that Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), has been selected as this year’s Class Day speaker. Fauci will give remarks and be inducted as an honorary class member during the celebration Monday, May 23, on Cannon Green. Dr. Anthony Fauci Photo courtesy of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Fauci is the top infectious disease expert in the United States and serves as President Joe Biden’s chief medical adviser. He has been integral to the country’s response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “This year’s speaker is undoubtedly among the small handful of leaders who have had the largest global impact over the past few years,” Class Day co-chairs Julia Chaffers, Sarah Lee and Christian Potter said in a video message to fellow seniors. “Few people better represent Princeton’s unofficial motto, ‘In the nation’s service and the service of humanity.’” Class Day, which takes place the day before Princeton’s Commencement, is organized by members of the senior class. The ceremony also includes speeches by graduating seniors, the recognition of class members for their contributions and the induction of honorary class members. This will be the first in-person Class Day since 2019 due to the pandemic. “While too much of our college experience was altered due to the pandemic, his contributions to public health policy have allowed us to now be approaching an in-person graduation and Class Day after a much more normal senior year,” the Class Day organizers said of Fauci. Santiago Guiran, president of the Class of 2022, said it is an honor to have Fauci address Princeton seniors. “Listening to a leader who has been at the forefront of combatting the pandemic will be a cathartic moment for us given all we have been through,” he said. Fauci was appointed director of the NIAID in 1984 and has advised seven presidents on domestic and global health issues. He is the recipient of numerous prestigious awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the National Medal of Science, the Mary Woodard Lasker Award for Public Service, and the Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research. As NIAID director, he oversees an extensive portfolio of basic and applied research to prevent, diagnose and treat established infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, respiratory infections, tuberculosis and malaria as well as emerging diseases. Fauci also has made seminal contributions to the understanding of how HIV destroys the body's defenses leading to its susceptibility to deadly infections, and he has been instrumental in developing treatments that enable people with HIV to live long and active lives. He was one of the principal architects of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), a program that has saved millions of lives. “Dr. Fauci has contributed to public health research for over 50 years and has led national responses to numerous health crises including the coronavirus pandemic,” Chaffers said. “We are excited to learn from Dr. Fauci about what it means to dedicate our lives to service, whether through science, public policy or other fields.” Lee said Fauci is dedicated to science, service, truth and compassion. “Our college experience was changed greatly due to the pandemic, and we've all learned the importance of empathy and compassion in living and adapting to this new normal. We firmly believe Dr. Fauci will be able to impart a message that our class can continue to take on after graduation,” she said. The Class Day organizers said they wanted to select a speaker who represented leadership broadly. “At Princeton, there are so many opportunities to be a leader in various communities,” Potter said. “Dr. Fauci continues in that broad tradition as a leader in the medical field who has nimbly translated his expertise into other leadership spaces throughout his career.” Potter noted that Fauci has also offered the country comfort during the past two years. “Despite the adverse and challenging circumstances, Dr. Fauci also tried to uplift during his press briefings and other public appearances,” Potter said. “This is just one of the ways in which he’s been an inspiring figure over the past few years, and I look forward to seeing that side of him on Class Day.” Class Day is traditionally a cheerful event known for speeches tinged with humor. In addition to serving as director, Fauci is the longtime chief of the NIAID’s Laboratory of Immunoregulation. He has made many contributions to basic and clinical research on the pathogenesis and treatment of immune-mediated and infectious diseases. He helped pioneer the field of human immunoregulation by making important basic scientific observations that underpin the current understanding of the regulation of the human immune response. Fauci is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Medicine, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society, as well as other professional societies including the American College of Physicians, the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Association of American Physicians, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the American Association of Immunologists, and the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. He serves on the editorial boards of many scientific journals and as an author, coauthor or editor of more than 1,400 scientific publications, including several textbooks. Commencement 2022 View All News Connect with #Princeton22 Instagram Facebook Twitter GIPHY YouTube LinkedIn 2022 Commencement website After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers University News: Read more ‘The value of persistence’: Princeton Class of 2022 celebrates Commencement University News: Read more 2022 Commencement Salutatio by Frances Mangina (Latin and English) University News: Read more 2022 Valedictory remarks by Natalia Orlovsky University News: Read more Class of 2022 Commencement Address by President Eisgruber — 'The Value of Persistence' University News: Read more Four faculty members recognized for outstanding teaching Award: Read more Princeton awards five honorary degrees Award: Read more Four outstanding N.J. secondary school teachers honored at Princeton Commencement Award: Read more At Hooding, a ritual celebration of extraordinary scholarly accomplishment University News: Read more Dr. Fauci to Princeton seniors on Class Day: ‘It is our collective responsibility not to shrug our shoulders’ or to accept ‘the normalization of untruths’ University News: Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Award: Read more Princeton University Class of 2022 Class Day remarks by Dr. Anthony S. Fauci University News: Read more Baccalaurate speaker Wendy Kopp ’89: The path to happiness is to align our lives with our values University News: Read more 2022 Princeton Baccalaureate address by Wendy Kopp University News: Read more Reunited: Princeton alumni return to campus for the first in-person Reunions since the start of the pandemic University News: Read more Phi Beta Kappa chapter honors Alexander Davis, Casey Lew-Williams with teaching awards Award: Read more Watch: Princeton's Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony Tuesday, May 24 University News: Read more Alumni returning for Reunions 2022 this Thursday through Sunday Campus Life: Read more Graduate students honored for excellence in teaching Award: Read more Four faculty members honored for excellence in mentoring graduate students Award: Read more Commencement events for Class of 2022 and on-campus Commencement details for Class of 2020 University News: Read more Natalia Orlovsky named Princeton valedictorian, Frances Mangina selected as salutatorian Award: Read more Teach For All co-founder and CEO Wendy Kopp named Baccalaureate speaker University News: Read more Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice