Skip to navigation Skip to main content Columbia College | Columbia Engineering | School of General Studies Undergraduate International Travel Policy Who is this policy for? For students traveling internationally, the types of travel covered under the Undergraduate International Travel Policy are different depending on what type of student you are. Undergraduate Students from Columbia College, Columbia Engineering and the School of General Studies This policy applies to all undergraduate students from Columbia College, Columbia Engineering and the School of General Studies* traveling outside of the 50 U.S. states on a Columbia-Led, Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel program, including: a conference, research, internship, study abroad, service, performance, co-curricular and/or extra-curricular; funded in whole or part by Columbia; earns academic credit at Columbia; and/or is organized, advised, and/or accompanied by Columbia University faculty or staff serving in a Columbia University capacity. * School of General Studies students in dual degree programs are exempt from the Undergraduate International Travel Policy process during the time in which they are in residence at the partner University, including travel to the partner University; however, they are subject to policy requirements if undertaking Columbia-Led, Columbia-Facilitated and/or Recognized Travel while completing the portion of their degree that is in residence at Columbia University. Columbia-Led Travel is mission-related travel that is organized and overseen by Columbia University. Examples include: Columbia course activities and programs that are supervised by, and fully or partially supported by, Columbia (for example, the Columbia in Paris at Reid Hall program) Columbia-managed study-abroad programs Travel that fulfills Columbia grants or contracts Travel for Columbia athletics Non-student travel sponsored by Columbia for alumni Faculty, researchers, and officers traveling internationally on University business Columbia-Faciitated and/or Recognized Travel is travel that is not overseen by Columbia University, but that may be partially funded or arranged by Columbia, may earn academic credit at Columbia or may be coordinated by a Columbia recognized student group or may be an extension of a faculty or researcher’s professional work. Examples include: International study through another university or outside organization (such as the CIEE Advanced Liberal Arts in Barcelona program) Approved exchange programs between Columbia and another university Co-ops, practica, or internships organized by Columbia and CUMC departments (for example, the IFAP Global Health Program) International travel by graduate or professional students to do independent research for their dissertations Civic engagement or service trips such as those coordinated with recognized Columbia chapters of larger groups, e.g., CU Red Cross, Doctors without Borders, Engineers without Borders, Global Brigades at Columbia or Habitat for Humanity Pre-professional and competition groups representing or competing on behalf of Columbia Columbia-funded travel such as travel supported by scholarships, travel grants, or by a Columbia-recognized student organization Undergraduate Students from Other Schools This policy also applies to all other undergraduate students participating in international travel and/or recognized student group travel that: is funded in whole or part by Columbia College, Columbia Engineering and the School of General Studies, including those run, funded or facilitated by Undergraduate Student Life, Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement and/or the Center for Career Education. Please note: This policy does not replace any additional requirements as required by a student's home school. Non-Columbia College, Columbia Engineering and School of General Studies undergraduates are encouraged to check in with their home school prior to finalizing any travel arrangements for additional information. Graduate Students This policy also applies to all graduate students participating in international travel and/or recognized student group travel that: is run, funded or facilitated by Undergraduate Student Life, Center for Undergraduate Global Engagement and/or the Center for Career Education. Please Note: This policy does not replace any additional requirements as required by a student's home school. Graduate students, including Columbia Engineering graduate students, are encouraged to check in with their home school prior to finalizing any travel arrangements for additional information. Home About the Policy Full Policy Who is Covered COVID-19 Travel Requirements FAQs Undergraduate Travel Resources Faculty and Staff Undergraduate Travel Web App Need Program Approval? If you are a Columbia faculty or staff member and have an opportunity, program or excursion that is recognized or supported by Columbia and involves international travel, please see our Travel Programs page. Questions? Have a question? Email utrc@columbia.edu. © 2022 Columbia University | Privacy | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Notice of Non-Discrimination |University Home Page