Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Master's Audition Requirements Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) Prepare for a career as a soloist or as an ensemble performer with the Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. This highly specialized, 18-credit, full-time certificate program is specifically tailored to provide rigorous training in one performance area for students who already perform at the post-master’s level or who seek training for professional development. Over one year, you’ll focus solely on your instrument through private lessons and elective courses chosen based on your individual needs. The program’s curriculum integrates a conservatory approach so you study the advanced techniques and pedagogy necessary for a career in opera or voice, or to play in an orchestra or symphony. You can choose from instrumental disciplines such as brass, cello, classical guitar, double bass, historical keyboard instruments, opera, percussion, piano, viola, violin and woodwinds, as well as opera or voice. Refine your musicianship, and understand the demands and requirements of a career in music. You’ll collaborate with other students as part of your ensemble experience with coursework that includes electives in music theory, music history or performance practice. Learn more about the curriculum for your discipline. Guided by award-winning faculty members, more than half of whom hold seats within the Philadelphia Orchestra, you’ll receive hands-on, specialized instruction to help shape your future career in music. As part of Temple’s Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts, Professional Studies Graduate Certificate students have access to state-of-the-art performance, recording and rehearsal facilities, including Presser Hall and the Temple Performing Arts Center. Classes and Curriculum Courses vary depending on instrument for the Professional Studies Certificate program, although the curriculum for each comprises significant performance experience. In the Brass, Classical Guitar, Double Bass, Percussion and Woodwinds curriculum, courses include Instrumental Ensembles, and two terms of Professional Studies in Applied Music. In the Cello, Viola and Violin curriculum, courses include Instrumental Ensembles, Orchestral Repertoire, and two terms of Professional Studies in Applied Music. In the Historical Keyboard, Piano and Voice curriculum, courses include Ensemble, Accompanying, Literature or Repertoire, and two terms of Professional Studies in Applied Music. In the Opera curriculum, courses include Opera Role Preparation and Opera Vocal Lessons. Learn more about courses in the Professional Studies Certificate program. Careers The Professional Studies Graduate Certificate program is tailored to provide students with the advanced performance experience necessary to pursue a career in music. Graduates are prepared for careers as solo musicians or as key players in ensembles and orchestras. Career Services As a Temple student, you can also visit the University’s Career Center for support during your job or internship search. Drop in for a short visit or schedule a 30-minute coaching session to discuss components of your professional profile, including your résumé and LinkedIn presence. Career services can provide assessments of your professional direction, job postings for students and alumni, listings of job search resources, and support for job search strategies. Learn more about Temple’s Career Center. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Boyer Scholarships Tuition scholarships are available for Professional Studies Certificate students. However, graduate assistantships, including academic internships, teaching assistantships and research assistantships, are not available. All awards are highly competitive and based on a record of academic and artistic excellence. For more information, contact Edward Flanagan, associate professor and associate dean for student affairs. Phone: 215-204-8301 Email: edward.flanagan@temple.edu Ensembles Instrumental Ensembles Boyer students have opportunities to perform in more than 10 instrumental-based ensembles, comprised of bands, orchestras and more. Ensembles include the Chamber Orchestra, which performs larger chamber works in a true chamber music setting. The Chamber Orchestra generally performs one concert per semester and on occasion has joined with the Temple University Concert Choir in a combined performance. Diamond Marching Band, which performs at athletic events throughout the academic year, including traditional pregame and varied halftime shows throughout the season. The “Pride of The Cherry and White” Marching Band performs at all home games and also travels to select away games. Opera Orchestra, which accompanies Opera Theater each semester in a fully staged production. Percussion Ensemble, which provides a quality educational chamber music experience for its members, promotes the performance of percussion literature in a variety of styles, and encourages the composition of new works for the medium. Symphony Orchestra, an orchestra comprised of undergraduate and graduate students. The orchestra has performed in recent years at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia, as well as Carnegie Hall and the Lincoln Center. Wind Symphony ensemble comprises advanced graduate and undergraduate musicians and performs at least six formal concerts throughout the academic year. Learn more about instrumental studies ensembles and other Boyer ensembles. Choral Ensembles Temple University’s choirs have enjoyed a rich tradition of excellence under the batons of some of Philadelphia's most prominent conductors. Comprised of nearly 200 students each year, the ensembles continually receive regional and national acclaim for their performances. Students can earn one credit for most of the ensembles. Consider joining an ensemble, like the Concert Choir, which is comprised of undergraduate and graduate students at the Boyer College of Music and Dance. In addition to performing the great masterworks of the choral and orchestral canon, the choir performs a lot of new American choral music and has presented many first Philadelphia performances. Graduate Conductors Chorus, an ensemble of 24 members selected from the Concert Choir by competitive audition. The choir is conducted by MM Choral Conducting students and presents a recital every six weeks under the direction of a different conductor. Members receive tuition assistance each semester and are held to a high standard of musical preparation and Recital Chorus, a volunteer ensemble of 20 to 40 members recruited by MM Choral Conducting students. The ensemble presents a recital every six weeks under the direction of a different conductor and is noted for spirited performances of works from the classical, folk and world traditions. Singing Owls, a mixed choir, comprised of Temple University alumni, faculty, staff and students as well as members of the greater Philadelphia community. The ensemble's primary goal is to create a dynamic and inclusive singing community through the appreciation and performance of music from diverse cultures, genres, places, and time periods. University Chorale, a choir of men's voices, representing a wide range of majors within the Boyer and across the university. The chorale performs music of many cultures and times. In recent years, the choir has placed a special emphasis on contemporary American music, including works by Jeffery Ames, Carol Barnett, Eric William Barnum, Daniel Pinkham Frank Ticheli, and Z. Randall Stroope. University Singers, a mixed choir, comprised of students across majors in Boyer and the university. The choir performs frequently on and off campus, and it participates in the annual combined choir and orchestra concerts at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts. Women's Chorus, a mixed choir of female students, representing a wide range of majors within Boyer and across the university. Formed in 2000 with the intent of expanding Temple's choirs' repertoire, the ensemble performs four times per year on campus as well as with the combined choirs and orchestra for the annual Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts concerts. Learn more about Temple University choirs and other Boyer ensembles. Additional information Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. American Choral Directors Association provides students opportunities to experience choral conducting through guest lectures and rehearsal practice, and offers opportunities to earn practical experience through various regional and state conferences. OWLchestra Community Orchestra is a community string orchestra composed of students and community members who want to play music together in a low-stress environment. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Facilities Facilities Temple’s Main Campus is home to a range of classroom and performance facilities for music and dance students, including a number of performing arts venues for student ensembles, practice rooms and state-of-the-art technology. Presser Hall Presser Hall is one of nine buildings that houses Boyer College of Music and Dance. It is open 24 hours during the academic year for students. The building features state-of-the-art AV and recording equipment, labs, and rehearsal rooms. Presser Hall is home to 16 new practice rooms and a three-room recording studio, including four new Steinway model pianos for Rock Hall. In addition, two of the Wenger practice rooms in Presser Hall have virtual acoustic environment effects installed. Temple Performing Arts Center Temple Performing Arts Center (TPAC) is where Boyer’s large ensembles perform, including the orchestra, wind symphony, choirs, percussion and jazz band. TPAC is also home to Lew Klein’s auditorium and Boyer’s annual MOSAIC concert during Homecoming weekend. During the school year, the center will host holiday concerts, film screenings, receptions, guest lectures and classes. Conwell Dance Theater The Conwell Dance Theater is a fully equipped 175-seat black box theater. Rock Hall Rock Hall features a 325-seat auditorium with surround sound and 6500 lumens Panasonic video projection. It is equipped with practice rooms, computer music labs, small ensemble rehearsal rooms, an audition room, a green room, and harpsichord- and harp-dedicated rooms. Temple University Center City Temple University Center City (TUCC) is located just across the street from City Hall, surrounded by the home offices of major national corporations. TUCC is the continuing education destination for aspiring Owls in the central part of Philadelphia. For Boyer students, TUCC offers a PhD in Music Therapy. However, interested students may have to take one or more courses on another campus to complete this degree at Temple University Center City. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance facilities and technology. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Ed Flanagan, associate professor and associate dean for student affairs, is the faculty program contact for the Professional Studies Certificate program. Phone: 215-204-8301 Email: edward.flanagan@temple.edu Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-PFST-GRPM Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Professional Studies - Music Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Master's Audition Requirements Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info