Skip to main content Skip to main navigation School of Education Menu About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy Social Studies Academy Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift Baylor>School of Education>News>News and Announcements News May 18 2022 Outstanding Seniors Honored by Baylor School of Education Baylor School of Education [SOE] recognized seven seniors as outstanding students at the 37th Annual Senior Recognition Banquet April 21. Seniors were recognized for their excellence in academic and fieldwork in education programs and their readiness to impact the world. Baylor SOE senior award recipients (biographies below) for 2022 are: • Elizabeth Richey — EDICUT Preservice Educator of the Year Award • Hannah Harris — Delores Coker Phi Delta Kappa Outstanding Student in Education • Emily Blackwell — Lorena B. Stretch Award for Outstanding Student in Elementary Education • Leslie Wolff — Outstanding Student in Middle Grades Education • Katherine Kaiser — M.L. Goetting Award for Outstanding Student in Secondary Education • Colleen Coudriet — Outstanding Student in EC-12 Education Programs • Jaque Vasquez — Outstanding Student with Minor in Education May 10 2022 Baylor’s iEngage Summer Civics Institute to be Honored with the Sandra Day O’Connor Award The iEngage Summer Civics Institute at Baylor University has been named the 2022 recipient of the Sandra Day O’Connor Award for the Advancement of Civics Education. This annual award, presented by the National Center for State Courts, honors an organization, court, program or individual who has promoted, inspired, improved or led an innovation or accomplishment in the field of civics education related to the justice system. Founded in 2013, the Baylor iEngage Summer Civics Institute is a free, five-day civics camp designed to help middle school students learn how to make a difference in their schools, neighborhoods and communities. Funded by the Hatton W. Sumners Foundation and Baylor University, the program is led by Baylor School of Education faculty members Brooke Blevins, Ph.D., The Conwell G. Strickland Endowed Chair, associate professor and chair of the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, and Karon LeCompte, Ph.D., associate professor of curriculum and instruction with an emphasis in social studies education. May 6 2022 Dr. Nick Werse Honored by Baylor Baylor University honored the School of Education’s Dr. Nick Werse with an Outstanding Staff Award this spring in a presentation at Truett Seminary. Werse is director of the Department of Curriculum & Instruction’s Ed.D. Writing Center, which serves hundreds of students in the SOE’s online Ed.D. in Learning and Organizational Change (EdD-LOC). The center offers comprehensive support, including writing development support, writing webinars, writing resources for faculty, course development recommendations, dissertation formatting support, and individualized student writing consultations via Zoom, employing a staff of seven including Werse. Apr 21 2022 Research Award: Dr. Mar Magnusen Dr. Marshall Magnusen, associate professor of sport management in the Department of Educational Leadership, received the Research Fellow Award from the Applied Sport Management Association (ASMA). ASMA is a scholarly organization that aims to builds research partnerships scholars studying sport — both faculty and students — and practitioners working in the sport industry. The award recognizes “scholars who have demonstrated a commitment to ASMA and its vision, as well as distinction in sport management research and scholarly contributions to the conference and the official journal, the Journal of Applied Sport Management. Magnusen just completed a two-year term as president of ASMA and serves as editor of the Journal of Applied Sport Management. Apr 21 2022 SOE and Campus Living & Learning Expand Partnership The Baylor School of Education (SOE) and Campus Living & Learning (CLL) have announced an expansion of their partnership in providing residential academic initiatives to Baylor students. The SOE’s Impact Living-Learning Center (LLC) and the LEAD LLC will join forces to form the IMPACT & LEAD LLC, which will be located in Allen and Dawson residence halls. Student residents will participate in renaming the LLC during the 2022-23 academic year. The SOE’s Impact LLC started in 2015 in South Russell Residence Hall, near the school’s home in Marrs McLean Science Building, and has always served both education majors and other students. The LEAD LLC, launched in 2004, is also multi-disciplinary and requires all residents to take one leadership course, offered by the School of Education’s Department of Educational Leadership through its leadership minor program. This new partnership will strengthen the academic bond between the LLC students and the SOE. Apr 14 2022 Being Baylor Online The spring Baylor Magazine explains how Baylor online programs produce leaders who live out the Baylor mission, with a strong focus on the SOE's EdD in Learning and Organizational Change and a profile of three EdD-LOC students. Apr 14 2022 Doctoral Student Receives Teaching Award Nate Scholten, a third-year Ph.D. candidate in Curriculum and Teaching in the School of Education’s Department of Curriculum & Instruction, received the Outstanding Graduate Student Instructor Award in recognition of his excellence as a teacher and student. Scholten was recognized for teaching Secondary Social Studies Practicum in the fall 2021 semester. The course is for junior-level students, called Teaching Associates (TAs), who are studying to become history teachers. He emphasizes the importance of connecting with students in the classroom and making civics an important aspect of education. Feb 14 2022 Dr. Rachelle Rogers Becomes President of ATE The Association of Teacher Educators (ATE) is a national organization focused on the improvement of the teacher education process, dedicating attention to preparing teacher candidates and promoting quality teacher education. It’s the only organization of its kind — and it’s now led by a Baylor faculty member and alumna. Dr. Rachelle Meyer Rogers (Ed.D. 2005), a clinical associate professor in Baylor’s School of Education, assumes the role of ATE president this month after serving as vice president last year. She was elected to the role in the Fall of 2020, chosen by her peers to lead an organization that she calls the “protector” of the teaching profession. Feb 11 2022 Love Lessons These newlyweds could say they met online. Or they could say they met in college. Both would be true, but not quite the whole picture! Chris and Dayna Lund both graduated from Baylor in December of 2021 as part of Cohort Two in the School of Education’s EdD in Learning and Organizational Change (EDD-LOC), an online program. They met in January of 2019 during their first online class, taught by Dr. Jessica Meehan. “The professors encouraged us to reach out to other students and to ‘find your people’ to help you through the program,” Chris said. “They said you’ll need that kind of camaraderie, because it’s going to get challenging.” But professors never expected this kind of camaraderie. Feb 9 2022 Dr. Perry Glanzer and Baylor Colleague Receive $2.7 Grant from John Templeton Foundation Baylor University researchers will examine virtue formation in higher education moral communities, both secular and faith-based, with a $2.7 million grant from the John Templeton Foundation. The project, “The Role of Meta-identity in Developing Moral Communities Within Higher Education,” is co-led by Perry Glanzer, Ph.D., professor of educational foundations and resident scholar with Baylor’s Institute for Studies of Religion, and Sarah Schnitker, Ph.D., associate professor of psychology, in partnership with colleagues from Baylor, the University of Notre Dame, Wheaton College, the Oxford Pastorate, Loyola Marymount University and the Anselm House Christian study center. Jan 14 2022 Impact Newsletter Online The newest issue of Baylor Impact newsletter (Fall 2021) is now online. If you are an SOE graduate and did not receive a newsletter in the mail, please let us know by emailing BaylorImpact@baylor.edu. This Impact issue features the work of faculty, students, and alumni who are making a difference, including the cover story with exciting news about the new Baylor TIP (Talent Identification Program), launching THIS YEAR! Click this story to visit the Impact website for this and past issues. Jan 13 2022 BCSL Offers “Culture of Joy” Workshop for Educators Baylor Center for School Leaders (BCSL) is hosting an afternoon workshop, combined with a Baylor men’s basketball ticket, for teachers, principals, superintendents, and other school or district leaders. The workshop, titled “Leading a Culture of Joy,’ will be Tuesday, Jan. 25, from 1-5 p.m., and the registration deadline is Monday, Jan. 17. The event is $45 per person, and schools are encouraged to bring teams of educators to attend. Dec 29 2021 Baylor SOE Alumna Wins 2021 Book Accolades Baylor School of Education graduate Dr. Mary Landon Darden, MSEd ’91, EdD ’06, has won a national award for her book Entrepreneuring the Future of Higher Education: Radical Transformation in Times of Profound Change, published earlier in 2021 by the American Council on Education and Rowman & Littlefield. Darden’s book was named by the American Book Fest as “Best Education/Academic Book of 2021.” American Book Fest is in its 19th year of delivering the “Best Book Awards,” covering numerous categories of books from mainstream and independent publishers. Entrepreneuring the Future of Higher Education was also honored by Book Authority, which provides book recommendations from thought leaders and experts, rated as #36 on its list of “58 Best University Books of All Time.” Dec 8 2021 Learning in Real Time Secondary teacher-education majors in the Baylor School of Education’s (SOE) undergraduate program enjoyed a new field experience on Professional Development School (PDS) campuses this fall. It was the first semester that students went through the full immersion into a new course component, “instructional rounds,” on school campuses. Dr. Madelon McCall, clinical associate professor and coordinator of the secondary education program, said the SOE’s program is modeled on clinical rounds for medical students. “It is similar to medical rounds in that students learn about the content, go observe it in practice, and then come back together and spend time debriefing with their professor,” McCall said. “Our students also write a reflection on their observations to discuss what they learned during the rounds.” Dec 1 2021 School of Education Graduate Honored with Statewide Teaching Award Alexandra Ronnenberg, who graduated from Baylor University in May with a B.S.Ed. in elementary education, has been named Clinical Teacher of the Year for the state of Texas, honored for her outstanding instruction and interaction with children while a senior at Baylor. She is the fourth Baylor intern to receive the award in the last five years it has been presented. No award was given in 2020 due to COVID-19. Ronnenberg received the award that honors senior-level teacher-education students from the Texas Directors of Field Experience (TDFE), the organization of faculty members within university teacher-education programs who supervise field experiences. The award was presented during this fall’s statewide meeting of the Consortium of State Organizations for Texas Teacher Education. Nov 11 2021 Baylor EdD Student, U.S. Army Veteran Honored with Pat Tillman Scholarship U.S. Army veteran, fifth-grade teacher and Baylor University doctoral student Erika Neuman has been named a Pat Tillman Foundation Scholar in recognition of her military service and her mission to educate children. Tillman Scholars are U.S. service members, veterans and military spouses chosen based on their service, leadership and potential. Of more than 2,000 applicants, only 60 are named each year. Tillman Scholars are awarded academic scholarships, lifelong leadership development opportunities and a diverse, global community of high-performing mentors and peers. Neuman, who is enrolled in the University’s Doctor of Education in Learning and Organizational Change online program, is the second Baylor student to receive the honor. “The Pat Tillman Foundation offers this incredible network of scholars and other professionals in every field at various universities and government institutions,” Neuman said. “It is an amazing group of veterans and selfless leaders who support one another and strive to see the other scholars succeed. The whole mission of the Tillman Foundation is empowerment, building leaders and service to others and that is exactly what this incredible organization does. I am honored to be among their ranks.” Oct 30 2021 Former Teachers Go All Out for Halloween Some intense “teacher” vibes emanated from the second floor of Marrs McLean Science Building on the Baylor campus to celebrate Halloween. Faculty and staff in the School of Education’s Department of Curriculum & Instruction (C&I) decided to decorate doors along the hallway and host trick-or-treaters at Baylor’s traditional event. And when former K12 classroom teachers gain access to butcher and construction paper, amazing designs are bound to happen! Dr. Sandi Cooper earned first-place honors for door decor for her design featuring lights and giveaway candy tagged with QR links to math activities (see links in the story). Oct 4 2021 Cherry Award Nominee to Speak Tuesday in School of Education Baylor Cherry Award nominee Dr. Hollylynne S. Lee, professor of mathematics and statistics education at North Carolina State University, will speak at Baylor at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 5, in Marrs McLean Science Building, Room 101. Lee is one of three finalists for the prestigious award, and if she receives it, she will teach in residence in the School of Education’s Department of Curriculum & Instruction during a semester in 2022. Lee’s lecture, “Data Moves and Discourse: Design Principles for Strengthening Statistics Education,” will be relevant to teachers and future teachers at all levels as she explores how to foster discourse and engagement with data. Prior to Lee’s work at the university level, she served as a K-12 teacher. Sep 29 2021 Baylor Education Continues Multi-Year Research in Early Math Skills After a 2020 hiatus due to COVID, Baylor University’s Mathematics for Early Learners Academy (MELA), sponsored by the Baylor School of Education (SOE), returned for the summer of 2021. The program, which has helped young students ages 4-6 to achieve or exceed grade level in early math skills and number fluency, also began pilot testing its new curriculum and assessments. The summer program, designed for students entering PreK or kindergarten and directed by Sandi Cooper, Ph.D., professor of mathematics education, aims to establish a solid foundation in “number sense,” especially for students who have been identified as struggling in mathematics. Sep 16 2021 Dr. Krys Goree served as author of new NAPDS “Nine Essentials” When the National Association of Professional Development Schools (NAPDS) decided to update its foundational “essentials” document, the national organization included representation from the Baylor University School of Education (SOE) to help lead those efforts. Baylor was one of the first universities to fully implement the Professional Development Schools (PDS) model, a clinically based educator preparation program in partnership with local schools to train preservice teachers. Krys Goree, Ph.D., clinical faculty and director of the SOE’s Office of Professional Practice, served on the NAPDS committee that spearheaded the three-year effort to update What it Means to Be a Professional Development School (PDS): The Nine Essentials. Originally written in 2008, the Nine Essentials provide guidance for school-university partnerships and PDS campuses who work together to prepare teachers. Sep 13 2021 Dr. Lakia Scott Honored by Baylor and Waco Chamber Baylor School of Education associate professor Dr. Lakia Scott became the first Baylor faculty member to be named as the university’s “Champion of Change” earlier this year. Baylor University launched the “Champions of Change” awards to recognize and acknowledge the accomplishments of faculty, staff, and alumni (one of each annually) who have demonstrated efforts to “foster greater appreciation and advancement of diversity, inclusiveness, and equity for communities of color at Baylor and in Waco.” A diverse and representative volunteer advisory committee sought nominations and made the final selections for the inaugural honorees. Sep 7 2021 Baylor ARC and Dr. Kelsey Ragan Honored by Baylor as Solid Gold Neighbor Dr. Kelsey Ragan, clinical assistant professor in Baylor School of Education’s Department of Educational Psychology, received a 2021 Solid Gold Neighbor Award as director of the School of Education’s Baylor Autism Resource Clinic (ARC) in recognition of the clinic’s impact through community outreach. The award came at the end of the spring semester as Baylor University recognized outstanding engagement with the community with the annual award. Aug 25 2021 Dr. Rishi Sriram Selected Editor of Research Journal Baylor School of Education associate professor Dr. Rishi Sriram has been selected as editor of the Journal of the First-Year Experience & Students in Transition, a semiannual academic journal publishing research about the first year of college and other student transition experiences, such as transferring colleges. Sriram’s appointment is for a renewable three-year term, which began July 1, 2021. As a researcher in this field, Sriram said he is fascinated by the outsized role that the college experience can play in a person’s life. “Colleges and universities can have a positive or detrimental effect through their policies, programs, places, and people,” he said. “Research in the field can equip institutions to understand and implement programs that are most conducive to helping college students flourish.” Jul 27 2021 First Year Teacher Reflections — How Did Baylor SOE 2020 Grads Do? Baylor’s teacher-education graduates of 2020 experienced a career launch like no other class. Their classroom internships were cut short by the global COVID pandemic, and then they entered their first year of independent teaching still in the midst of a pandemic that lasted the entire school year. Were our graduates ready? Read reflections from four 2020 grads: Augie Strauch (Secondary Social Studies), Cami Cox (Elementary Education), Emily Holland (Special Education), and Sahira Kodra (Elementary Education). Jul 1 2021 School of Education Autism Research Team Studies Mechanical Horse Intervention A team of Baylor School of Education autism researchers is helping evaluate the effectiveness of a Baylor-invented mechanical horse that is designed to treat children with autism. A Baylor interdisciplinary team received a grant of nearly $600,000 from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board to study the effectiveness of the MiraColt, a mechanical device that simulates the motion of horseback riding. Dr. Julie Ivey, Associate Professor of Educational Psychology, is a co-investigator and is leading an SOE research team that includes one Ph.D. level School Psychology student, Ryan Coleman, and two Ed.S. level School Psychology students, Ashley Allison and Alex Plank. The team is currently recruiting children ages 6-12 to participate in the project to measure the effects of riding the MiraColt, an invention patented by Baylor mechanical engineering Associate Professor Dr. Brian Garner. Are you looking for more News? Archives News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Visit Campus Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students School of Education Facebook Twitter Instagram Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About At a Glance Contact the School Office of the Dean Dean's Biography Dean's Office Directory Dean's Office Directory Centennial Events Featured Profiles Impact Living-Learning Center Mission of the School of Education Outcomes Consumer Information Why Baylor School of Education Learning Spaces Marrs McLean Science Learning Resources Center (LRC) Location and Hours Check-Out Procedures Media Lab Mathematics Education Lab Impact Living-Learning Center Academics Dept. of Curriculum & Instruction Dept. of Educational Leadership Dept. of Educational Psychology Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MA in Teaching (MAT) MAT Admission Information MAT Degree Requirements / Coursework Certification Information (OPP) MAT Joint Programs Global Programs Undergraduate Study Abroad Carpenter Embedded Global Classroom Baylor Education in Costa Rica Graduate Study Abroad Explore our Programs Apply Tk20 Info Tk20 Login for Student/Faculty For Students For Cooperating Teachers For Faculty Outreach & Applied Research Partnerships Professional Development Schools What is a PDS? The Co-Teach Model Partner School Districts Greater Waco Area Superintendents Impact Living-Learning Center Centers Baylor Center for School Leadership Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development University for Young People (UYP) UYP 2020 Fall GT Conference Super Saturdays Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities Clinic for Assessment, Research and Education (CARE) Contact CARE Donate to CARE CARE Mission and Goals CARE Community Programs Skill Building Program Problem Behavior Support Clinic Feeding Support Program Baylor Autism Resource Clinic Grants & Initiatives Research Stories Professional Development for Educators Summer Literacy Institute Fall GT Conference Mathematics Teacher Academy 2019 MTA Facebook Album 2018 MTA Facebook Album 2017 MTA Facebook Album Social Studies Academy 2019 Social Studies Summer Summit Mathematics for Teachers of Early Learners (MTEL) Map Academies & Institutes of BCSL (Baylor Center for School Leadership) Baylor Beginning Teacher Institute Summer Superintendents Institute Christian Higher Education Leadership Seminar Faculty Meet the Faculty Faculty Positions Assistant Professor in Curriculum & Instruction Clinical Assistant Professor of ELementary Education Professor and Department Chair of Educational Leadership Clinical Assistant or Clinical Associate Professor of School Psychology (Dallas campus) Assistant or Associate Professor of School Psychology (Waco campus) Grants & Initiatives Centers Students Prospective Undergraduates Why a BSEd at Baylor? Degree Planners & Certification Areas FAQs Visit the School of Education SOE Glossary Student Spotlights Transfer Students Impact Living-Learning Center Meet Dr. Neil Shanks Meet Your Major Podcast Prospective Graduate Students Advising and Degree Programs Schedule an Advising Appointment Meet the Advisors Degree Planners & Certification Areas Degree Planners 2019 - beyond Degree Planners - 2018 Apply to Graduate Advising FAQs Equivalent Courses Tool for Baylor Baylor Undergraduate Catalog Give Feedback Certification Information Complaint Policy Office of Professional Practice (OPP) Certification Information Testing for Certification (all programs) Criminal History Evaluations Texas Requirements & Process for Certification Baylor Process for Admittance to Teacher Education Program (undergraduate & MAT) Baylor Process for Admittance to Superintendent Certification Program (EdD in K-12) Baylor Process for Admittance to Principal Certification Program (MA in School Leadership) Benefits and Waivers for Military Service Members Baylor University Technology Practices in Teaching and Learning Complaint Process Action Research 2022 Action Research Symposium 2021 Action Research Program 2019 Action Research Monograph Schedule A Visit Visits: Prospective Undergraduate Students Visits: Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships for Undergraduates Student Profiles Student Services Advising Learning Resources Center (LRC) Student Wellness Services Professional Meeting Support for Undergraduates Kappa Delta Pi Action Research Student Advisory Council Professional Licensure Information MEET the SOE podcast Alumni Alumni Awards Keep in Touch Alumni Profiles Update Your Information Impact Newsletter Online Homecoming Centennial News News and Announcements News Blog: Instant Impact Impact Newsletter Online SOE in the News SOE Social Media Information for Media SOE Coronavirus Updates SOE Coronavirus FAQ Make a Gift