Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Home CIQ CIQ About News Resources Leadership Moving Forward Together About Us Training Training Searching Intelligently Hidden Scripts ☰ About the Office of Diversity & Inclusion Training Hidden Scripts Hidden Scripts Our biases are the stories we form about other people before we get a chance to know who they actually are. Join the Office of Diversity & Inclusion in discovering our hidden biases in SMU’s training module, Hidden Scripts. This two-part training program is designed to help SMU employees uncover implicit biases and develop a connection with cultural intelligence so that they can strategically communicate with anyone, anywhere at any time. Part 1 is a self-paced, Canvas-based course where learners become familiar conceptually with the notion of hidden biases, how to identify and recognize them in the world around us and the fact that these biases are indeed natural to the human experience. Register for Part 1 now with the form below! *Registration occurs every Tuesday and Thursday at 4:00PM CST* Part 2 is experienced in live and virtual sessions with a Diversity Officer Trainer. Participants explore more intimately biases they may hold within themselves. This session builds upon the conversation started in Part 1 in a more personalized setting. *Part 2 sessions are held during three 10-week blocks that occur in the Spring, Summer and Fall Terms* Training Searching Intelligently Hidden Scripts Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share