Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC Blue Ash professor reflects on parenthood in award-winning... May 18, 2022 Kevin Oberlin dives into his experiences as a new parent, both the worry and wonderment, in Steamboat Alley, his new chapbook of poems that received the 2021 Heartland Review Chapbook Prize in poetry. 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. UC Blue Ash professor reflects on parenthood in award-winning... May 18, 2022 Kevin Oberlin dives into his experiences as a new parent, both the worry and wonderment, in Steamboat Alley, his new chapbook of poems that received the 2021 Heartland Review Chapbook Prize in poetry. 'I’m a Bearcat' May 12, 2022 From the moment she was surprised on Decision Day with admittance to the University of Cincinnati, Lachelle Dixon was ready to move on from high school and start the next chapter of her life at UC. UC Blue Ash student receives national scholarship May 10, 2022 UC Blue Ash College student Shelby Schepis will have some help in completing her bachelor’s degree thanks to a $2,500 scholarship from the American Society of Radiologic Technologists (ASRT). UC Blue Ash celebrates top students in special event May 2, 2022 Honor graduates, academic award winners, and other exceptional students at the University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College were recently recognized in a special event. The Power of Vision: 5 Years of Momentum April 28, 2022 The last five years rank among UC’s best. Take a look at some of our recent accomplishments and proudest moments since President G. Pinto began his term as UC’s 30th President. UC to celebrate record-breaking class at spring commencement April 25, 2022 The University of Cincinnati will recognize a record 7,080 graduates at its spring commencement during four ceremonies on Friday and Saturday at Fifth Third Arena. UC Blue Ash student manages terminal illness with goal of... April 25, 2022 Sydney Velazco has to take more than 30 oral medications and go through multiple therapy sessions every day just to manage her health, just to stay out of the hospital. She does this so she can spend her days in a dentist office helping others. President Pinto celebrates talented UC community during State of... April 15, 2022 Faculty, staff and students from UC gathered online and inside Probasco Auditorium for President Neville G. Pinto's April 14 State of the University Address. UC business grad goes viral on TikTok April 14, 2022 Jeff Bezos’ $165 million purchase of a Los Angeles-area mansion and TikTok helped University of Cincinnati alumnus John Eringman kick-start his career as a full-time content creator. UC Online partners with City of Cincinnati to advance employee... March 14, 2022 The University of Cincinnati and City of Cincinnati partner to offer city employees, their spouses, and dependents access to UC’s online degree programs at a reduced cost in the form of scholarships. 2022 Cincinnati Business Achievement Awards honor Lindner... March 8, 2022 The 2022 Cincinnati Business Achievement Awards (CBAAs) were marked by recognition of current students, distinguished alumni and generous givers to the University of Cincinnati Carl H. Lindner College of Business. UC Blue Ash to provide free dental care on Community Dental Day February 28, 2022 Event: March 4, 2022 8:00 AM The University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College will host its Community Dental Day on Friday, March 4 from 8:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. in the Dental Hygiene Clinic, located in Walters Hall on the UC Blue Ash campus (9555 Plainfield Road, Cincinnati, OH 45236). UC Regionals to host Open House events March 9 February 7, 2022 UC Clermont will join with UC Blue Ash to host Regional College Open House events Wednesday, March 9, from 5:30-7:30 p.m. UC Blue Ash welcomes new assistant dean of academic affairs February 3, 2022 The University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College is pleased to welcome Temesha Corbin as the new assistant dean of academic affairs. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top