Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Menu Data Science Open Search Bar Search Submit search Main navigation Home Major Minor Certificate Get Involved People What if you could solve the world’s biggest problems because you can understand and interpret data? As a data scientist, you can make an impact in any field — and earn a degree with value at the same time! Glassdoor voted Data Scientist third in 'Best Jobs in America for 2022', with a median base salary of $104,000. Change the world with data science. Data science is everywhere Incredible amounts of data are generated every day, from apps on your phone to medical devices. And, every part of society connects with data: agriculture, engineering, finance and more. Data science can give you the amazing power to . . . Make a difference. Use data to solve global hunger or drive better business decisions. Maybe one day you could shape a hurricane disaster response plan, improve self-driving cars or define a military defense strategy. Challenge yourself. Engage your quantitative and creative side. You’ll learn to apply the technical fundamentals of data science to data analysis pipelines and develop the knowledge and skills to transform data into insights. Learn about data visualization and how to communicate your findings to inform actions. Create your future. Data scientists have the skills for a rewarding career in almost any industry! Iowa State’s data science program offers A bachelor of science undergraduate degree in data science A minor in data science A certificate in data science A variety of special tracks – choose your interest area from big data, engineering applications, optimization, security, software analytics, statistics and computational biology. Adventure with us! We’re a place where you can ask new questions and chase big ideas. Conduct undergraduate research with award-winning faculty. Intern in Silicon Valley, or explore a new culture through study abroad. Compete in a case competition with the Data Science Club or do outreach with K-12 students. At Iowa State, it all adds up to your innovative adventure. Apply for Admission Data Science Program 113 Atanasoff Hall 2434 Osborn Drive Ames, IA 50011-1090 datascience@iastate.edu Phone: 515-294-1134 Fax: 515-294-0258 Copyright Information Copyright © Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Legal and Privacy Links Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer Information