Skip to main content FSU >> FSU LIBRARIES Top Right Search Box Search Our Website... * OneSearch | My Account Florida State University Libraries Search & Find Advanced Search Find a Database Journal Search Special Collections Search DigiNole Search Services & Research All Services Subject Librarians Distance Learning Digital Research & Scholarship Special Collections & Archives Government Information About the Libraries Libraries Overview Member Libraries Departments Accessibility @ FSU Libraries Diversity & Inclusion Giving to the Libraries Facts & Figures Strategic Plan Advancement Board Materials & Borrowing Borrowing Materials Library Express Delivery Interlibrary Loan Materials Purchase Request Help & Support Get Help Library Hours Maps & Directions Visitor Information COVID Guidelines Home >> Office of Digital Research and Scholarship Office of Digital Research and Scholarship The Office of Digital Research and Scholarship partners with members of the scholarly community at FSU and beyond to engage with and act on innovative ideas in teaching, research, and creative activity. We privilege marginalized voices and unique contributions to scholarly discourse. We support interdisciplinary inquiry in our shared pursuit of research excellence. We work with scholars to explore and implement new modes of scholarship that emphasize broad impact and access. What We Do How We Do It DRS News and Events Office of Digital Research and Scholarship debuts new digital project hosting service Florida State University Libraries is proud to announce the launch of CreateFSU, a new web-hosting service for digital research projects. Read More Florida State Open Publishing releases two open access textbooks Florida State Open Publishing released two new open textbooks in Spring 2021. Read More FSU Open Scholars Project launches Spring 2021 The Open Scholars Project is an informal forum to learn about and discuss developments in open access. Read More FSU Libraries hosts Fall 2018 Symposium: "Climate: Science and Society" On November 8th, the FSU Libraries hosted the Fall symposium in Dirac Science Library on the topic of "Climate: Science and Society." This event brought together interdiscipliary speakers from Anth Read More Digital Research and Scholarship DRS Home Open Publishing Digital Humanities Instruction and Training Technology and Innovation People Events Portfolio Our Research Contact Us Office of Digital Research & Scholarship Lower level of Strozier Library R&D Commons About The Florida State University Libraries The mission of the University Libraries is to support and enhance the learning, teaching, research, and service activities of the Florida State University... READ MORE > Library Hours Maps and Directions Our Libraries Staff Directory Subject Librarians All Forms Library News Library Departments Library Events Library Services Employment Visiting the Libraries Giving to the Libraries Policies About the Libraries FAQ Government Information Staff Intranet Content Editor Login Internal Knowledge Base © Florida State University Libraries 116 Honors Way Tallahassee, FL 32306 Website Suggestions Privacy Principles Copyright Policy Contact Us (850) 644-2706 Search Articles, Books and More... * Connect with us!