Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > About Us > Make a Gift Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Columbia Giving Day Annual Fund Named Scholarships Planned Giving Class and Program Gifts Dean's Leadership Society Contact Us Make a Gift Columbia not only introduced the idea of nursing as a profession, it provided the best nursing education available, and it helped me to become a nurse practitioner. Because others should have that opportunity ... is why I give. Francisco Diaz ’03 ’05 Financial aid is one of the school’s top funding priorities. Your investment enables our accomplished students to continue their education and to become the next generation of nurse clinicians, leaders, and scientists. Thank you for your support of Columbia University School of Nursing. Ways to Give Online You can quickly and easily make a gift online by using our secure giving portal. Make a Gift Online Now By Mail Please make checks payable to "Columbia University School of Nursing" and mail to: Columbia University School of Nursing Office of Development and Alumni Relations 560 West 168th Street, MC 6 New York, NY 10032 Securities Many donors prefer gifts of appreciated stocks, bonds, and mutual funds when considering a donation of $1,000 or more. For more information on how to give a gift of securities, please click here. Wire Transfer From anywhere in the world and in any currency, you may wire your gift to Columbia. To transfer your gift, email Gift Systems at giftsys@columbia.edu or call 1-866-GIFTSYS during business hours. For more information, please contact Janice Grady, Executive Director, Development & Alumni Relations, at jar2272@columbia.edu or 212-305-1088. Matching Gifts Many companies match their employees’ donations to Columbia, multiplying the impact of your gift. If your employer matches gifts, please fill out your company’s form and email: Email: giftsys@columbia.edu Phone: 866-GIFTSYS Fax: 212-851-1240 Does your company have a matching gift program? Use our search tool to find out. Recurring Gifts A recurring gift is an easy, automatic way to give according to your budget and schedule. Recurring gifts are customizable for donors and help ensure a stable source of funding for Columbia Nursing. Simply choose “recurring gift” when you give online. Pledges By spreading a donation over time, pledges help you make larger gifts at your own pace, allowing a potentially greater impact on Columbia Nursing. Some donors make multi-year pledges, often over five years or less. For more information, please contact Janice Grady, Executive Director, Development & Alumni Relations, at jar2272@columbia.edu or 212-305-1088. Thank You Annual Fund Consider giving to our Annual Fund to ensure that today's nurses are able to achieve their dream of making a difference in health care. Annual Fund Planned Giving Consider creating a planned gift to help a student achieve their dream, while meeting your own charitable goals. Planned Giving Named Scholarships Consider giving the gift of a named scholarship to a Columbia Nursing student. Named Scholarships Class and Program Gifts Make an impact on future Columbia Nursing by gifting a class or program scholarship. Class and Program Gifts Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top