COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Courtesy Wichita State University's NIAR WERX has recently signed an agreement to expand its program to convert passenger aircraft into cargo planes. The above Airbus 321 is an example of the work that will be done through NIAR's Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul program. May 25, 2022Growing Innovation and ResearchTalent PipelineEconomic ProsperityMaintenance Repair and OverhaulNational Institute for Aviation Research NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures By Strategic Communications The WERX program at Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) and Erickson Precision Ventures have reached an agreement to work cooperatively on modification, maintenance and engineering for various Boeing and Airbus aircraft. NIAR will soon complete conversions and maintenance – which began last year – for Erickson’s subsidiary company, Erickson Aero Tanker. In the third quarter of 2022, NIAR WERX will begin performance of passenger-to-freighter (P2F) conversions for Erickson, adding two new aircraft to its conversion portfolio with the expectation of performing 12-24 per year for Precision Aircraft Solutions (Precision) at NIAR WERX. “The unprecedented demand for the Airbus and Boeing products is a testament to the investment and teamwork needed to create industry leading products for our community and our customers, said Precision President Gary Warner. “Precision works with facilities around the globe to satisfy this demand, and NIAR WERX represents a truly unique addition to the team. Through their applied research and technology, NIAR WERX has the people and facilities needed for the required production levels, a purpose-driven team and the state level support needed to realize their overall vision.” “I’m extremely proud of the team of engineers, technicians and students we have assembled here in Wichita,” said NIAR WERX executive director David Jones. “They have embraced and risen to the challenge of completing some of the most complex conversion programs. As WERX continues to build the premier air vehicle new development and modification center in Kansas, we will be making further announcements of large growth in Wichita, Salina and Topeka.” Courtesy WSU-NIAR and Precision teams. Top (left to right): Stacia Boden, WSU general counsel; Steven Thomas, president, Erickson Group; Allison Bonitati, NIAR WERX program director; Louis Valdes, Valdes & Associates; Tamra Dereiko, Precision; Jillian Thomas, Precision; Jessica Skladzien, WSU general counsel. Bottom (left to right): John Tomblin, WSU senior vice president for Industry & Defense Programs/NIAR executive director; Jack Erickson; Dave Jones, NIAR WERX executive director; Gary Warner, president, Precision Aircraft Solutions Senator Jerry Moran, a strong supporter of Kansas aviation, said, “Kansas has the resources to become the MRO Capital, and it is quickly becoming a reality. The strong partnerships that NIAR WERX is forming with Precision will provide high-paying skilled jobs for Kansans while simultaneously supporting aviation industry growth across the country.” "Adding these aircraft to the NIAR WERX portfolio highlights the Wichita region's importance to the aerospace industry," said Kansas Governor Laura Kelly. "This expansion creates additional career opportunities for Kansans while emphasizing to other businesses that Kansas is a place of growth and possibility." Based on this new partnership and the recently announced expansion of Kansas Modification Center’s 777-300ERCF P2F conversion program, NIAR WERX anticipates the creation of nearly 1,500 jobs over the next five years. Learn more about NIAR WERX jobs Maintenance Repair and Overhaul Wichita State’s National Institute for Aviation Research has achieved world acclaim for its groundbreaking advancements in research and development for the aviation industry. Its state-of-the-art labs and partnerships improved safety, sustainability and digital transformation for private companies and the defense industry. It’s because of NIAR’s reputation for success that NIAR WERX has been chosen for a Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul program to help engineer the aircraft of tomorrow. The MRO at Wichita State is one of only three in the world and two in the nation, so it’s a distinctive honor and a remarkable opportunity for our campus community. Learn more about WSU's MRO program Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis students Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©