Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Leading bold change Our volunteers ignite our campus with their heartfelt dedication and service. The success of our campaign would not be possible without the support of our community of volunteers across the Hilltop, Dallas and beyond. Their dedication to SMU’s mission and their collective vision for a brighter future inspire us and our donors to achieve great things together. Campaign Leadership Council This group of long-standing SMU supporters, donors and alumni is dedicated to the future growth and success of the University, its research and its students. The Campaign Leadership Council spearheads the efforts of SMU Ignited through bold leadership and steadfast commitment. Overseeing the campaign’s leadership gift solicitations, the council also provides general oversight to and support of the campaign’s volunteers and partnering organizations. Michael M. Boone ’63, ’67, Co-Chair Partner, Haynes and Boone Kelly Hoglund Compton ’79, Co-Chair Executive Director, The Hoglund Foundation Robert H. Dedman, Jr. ’80, ’84, Co-Chair President and Chief Executive Officer, DFI Management Ltd. Gerald J. Ford ’66, ’69, Convening Co-Chair Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Diamond A Ford Corporation Ray L. Hunt ’65, Co-Chair Executive Chairman, Hunt Consolidated David B. Miller ’72, ’73, Co-Chair Co-Founder and Managing Partner, EnCap Investments LP Caren H. Prothro, Co-Chair Civic and Philanthropic Volunteer Carl Sewell ’66, Co-Chair Chairman, Sewell Automotive Companies R. Gerald Turner, President, Ex Officio Brad E. Cheves, Vice President for Development and External Affairs Campaign Steering Committees This group includes passionate representatives from every corner of the Hilltop, from SMU’s academics and athletics departments to University development and administration. The Campaign Steering Committees ensure the forward momentum of SMU Ignited by advancing the specific funding needs and strategic priorities of their respective areas. National Edwin L. Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Bobby B. Lyle School of Engineering Algur H. Meadows School of the Arts Joe and Lois Perkins School of Theology Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Ex officio members of all Campaign Steering Committees National Kelvin L. Beachum, Jr. ’10, ’12 Martin L. Flanagan ’82, Co-Chair Steven J. Lindley ’74 Scott J. McLean ’78, Co-Chair Jeanne L. Phillips ’76, Convening Co-Chair Richard Ware ’68, Co-Chair Royce E. (Ed) Wilson, Sr., Co-Chair Edwin L. Cox School of Business Stephen L. Arata ’88 Pat S. Bolin ’73 Tucker S. Bridwell ’73, ’74, Convening Co-Chair Katherine Raymond Crow ’94 Christopher W. Kleinert ’88 Kyle D. Miller ’01, Co-Chair Matthew B. Myers, Dean, Ex Officio Mark B. Plunkett ’96, Co-Chair Kirk L. Rimer ’89, Co-Chair William H. Vanderstraaten ’82 Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Jon J. Altschuler ’94, Co-Chair Liz Martin Armstrong ’82, Co-Chair Thomas DiPiero, Dean, Ex Officio M. Scott Gray ’90 Frederick B. Hegi, Jr. ’66 William “Bubba” Hines ’83 Ashlee Hunt Kleinert ’88, Co-Chair Jason A. Kulas ’93 Betsy O’Brien Pitts ’87 Gloria McCall Snead ’93 R. Haynes Strader, Jr. ’11 Myra Nicol Williams ’63 Dedman School of Law Jim Baldwin ’86, Co-Chair A. Shonn Evans Brown ’95, ’98 Jennifer M. Collins, Dean, Ex Officio David Haley ’86 Robert Hart ’86 Albon O. Head, Jr. ’68 David S. Huntley ’80, Co-Chair D. Bobbitt Noel, Jr. ’76 Clement H. Osimetha ’95 Timothy E. Powers ’80 Mark M. Sloan ’90 Cynthia Hoff Trochu ’88 Amy Abboud Ware ’87, ’90, Co-Chair Angela C. Zambrano ’97 Bobby B. Lyle School of Engineering Donald Berg ’70 Marc P. Christensen, Dean, Ex Officio Douglas R. Deason Hilda C. Galvan, Co-Chair Linda W. Hart ’65 Milledge A. Hart, III Bobby B. Lyle ’67, Convening Co-Chair Angela Steffen Meyer, PhD, PE, ’83, ’85, ’87 Dale A. Petroskey Richard H. Schulze William T. Solomon ’64 Michael G. Sullivan ’85, ’91, Co-Chair Richard K. Templeton, Co-Chair Robert F. Weiss, Jr. Algur H. Meadows School of the Arts Jennifer Burr Altabef ’78, ’81, Co-Chair Linda Pitts Custard ’60, ’99 Doyle D. Glass ’84, ’88 Samuel S. Holland, Dean, Ex Officio Barbara Thomas Lemmon Sarah Fullinwider Perot ’83, Co-Chair Peggy Higgins Sewell ’72, Co-Chair Marvin B. Singleton ’89, Co-Chair Joe and Lois Perkins School of Theology Bert R. Bagley ’81 Jane R. Bolin Dodee Frost Crockett ’03, Co-Chair Joe Hardt, Co-Chair C. Robert Hasley, Jr. ’77, ’78 Craig C. Hill, Dean, Ex Officio Katherine Glaze Lyle ’71, ’73, ’94 Bishop Michael McKee ’78 Lael C. Melville ’16, ’21 Charles R. Millikan ’71 Gay F. Solomon Matthew A. Tuggle ’10 Julie Yarbrough, Co-Chair Annette Caldwell Simmons School of Education and Human Development Julia B. Berle ’17 Lottye Brodsky-Lyle, Co-Chair Calvert S. Collins-Bratton Richard H. Collins ’69, Co-Chair Regen Horchow George W. Killebrew, IV ’85 Stephanie L. Knight, Dean, Ex Officio Biegel Macaraeg ’05 Connie Blass O’Neill ’77, Co-Chair Jeanne L. Phillips ’76 Carol Paris Seay ’66, ’71 Connie M. Sigel ’85 Philip Wise ’78, ’81 M. Catherine Zollars Athletics Kathryn Hedges Arata ’87, ’91 William D. Armstrong ’82, Co-Chair R. Steve Folsom ’81 Kristin Wagner Henderson ’82 Rick Hart, Director of Athletics, Ex Officio William J. Howard ’00, Co-Chair Bruce A. Robson ’74, Co-Chair Thomas W. Sabin, Jr. ’79 Ex officio members of all Campaign Steering Committees R. Gerald Turner, President Brad E. Cheves, Vice President for Development and External Affairs Give Today When you give to SMU, you’re helping shape future world changers. Make a Gift Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search