Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE RADIATION ONCOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 R ONC 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 51) R. Ermoian, U. Parvathaneni, M. Phillips, D. Wilbur Opportunities in clinical or laboratory investigation in radiation oncology, radiation physics, or computer-related research. Student participation in ongoing or new projects. Open to students in the biological or physical sciences. View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 499 R ONC 505 P-Radiation Oncology Preceptorship (1, max. 12) Kane, Kelly, Kim, Koh, Laramore, Liao, Patel, Rockhill, Russell Students choose either to follow an attending physician through all aspects of radiation oncology including consults, follow-up, and treatment planning; or to follow a small cohort of patients throughout their treatment course to learn about the experience of a cancer patient undergoing treatment for life-threatening disease. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 505 R ONC 600 Independent Study or Research (*) Prerequisite: permission of department and faculty sponsor. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 600 R ONC 601 Multidisciplinary Oncology Clerkship (4) Ralph P Ermoian Introduces students to interdisciplinary oncology care. Students follow patients through multidisciplinary clinic visits, attend tumor boards, and spend dedicated time with specialties like medical oncology, radiation oncology, pediatric oncology, surgical oncology, pathology, and radiology. Students see patients at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, Seattle Children's Hospital, and University of Washington Medical Center. Prerequisite: UW School of Medicine students must have completed the Foundations phase of the curriculum. Visiting students must have completed their preclinical curriculum and be in the clerkship phase of medical school. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSpS. View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 601 R ONC 694 P-Clinical Cancer Management - SCCA (*, max. 8) Participation in the clinical management of patients with cancer, emphasizing a multi-modality approach. Includes clinical assessment, planning of radiation treatment, and follow-up evaluation of patients. Special procedures include three-dimensional treatment planning, implant brachytherapy, and intraoperative radiation. Daily teaching conferences with faculty and residents. Prerequisite: medicine core clerkship or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 694 R ONC 695 P-Clinical Cancer Management - UWMC (*, max. 8) Participation in the clinical management of patients with cancer, emphasizing a multi-modality approach. Includes clinical assessment, planning of radiation treatment, and follow-up evaluation of patients. Special procedures include three-dimensional treatment planning, implant brachytherapy, and intraoperative radiation. Daily teaching conferences with faculty and residents. Prerequisite: medicine core clerkship or permission of instructor. Instructors: Kane View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 695 R ONC 697 P-Radiation Oncology Special Elective (*, max. 24) By specific arrangement for qualified students, special clerkship, externship, or research opportunities are made available at institutions other than the University of Washington. Students obtain a "special assignment" form from the dean's office at least one month before advance registration. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Instructors: Kane View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 697 R ONC 699 P-WWAMI Radiation Oncology Special Electives (*, max. 24) By special arrangement for qualified students, special clerkships or externships may be available at institutions located within the WWAMI region, other than the University of Washington. Prerequisite: permission of department. Instructors: Kane View course details in MyPlan: R ONC 699 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022