Global Navigation ISU News Store Contact Us Offices Iowa State University Hello Visitor! Log In or Register Home Nondiscrimination Statement and Information Disclosures by minn | Tue, 05/29/2012 - 13:56 USDA Nondiscrimination Statement for Extension Programming In accordance with Federal law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, this institution is prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, disability, and reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity. (Not all prohibited bases apply to all programs.) Program information may be made available in languages other than English. Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication for program information (e.g., Braille, large print, audiotape, and American Sign Language) should contact the responsible State or local Agency that administers the program or USDA’s TARGET Center at 202-720-2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at 800-877-8339. To file a program discrimination complaint, a complainant should complete a Form AD-3027, USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form, which can be obtained online at https://www.ocio.usda.gov/document/ad-3027, from any USDA office, by calling 866-632-9992, or by writing a letter addressed to USDA. The letter must contain the complainant’s name, address, telephone number, and a written description of the alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (ASCR) about the nature and date of an alleged civil rights violation. The completed AD-3027 form or letter must be submitted to USDA by: Mail: U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20250-9410; or Fax: 833-256-1665 or 202-690-7442; or Email: program.intake@usda.gov. This institution is an equal opportunity provider. For the full non-discrimination statement or accommodation inquiries, go to https://www.extension.iastate.edu/diversity/ext. Iowa State University Links Iowa State University's Nondiscrimination and Affirmative Action Policy (pdf file) Iowa State University's Statements and Disclosures Page ISU Confidential Information Policies ISU Computer Code of Ethics - A statement of ethical use of computer facilities endorsed by ISU and AIT. ISU E-Commerce page - Criteria must be followed by any ISU department or affiliate wishing to engage in e-commerce using payment cards. Digital Accessibility Digital accessibility refers to the inclusive practice of removing barriers that prevent interaction with, or access to digital content, by people with disabilities. Iowa State University Extension and Outreach is committed to providing digital content that is accessible to as many people as possible. This is in accordance with federal and state laws including Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 508 of the Workforce Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 and the Iowa Civil Rights Act. For technical support please contact extensionweb@iastate.edu. Commercial Disclaimer Commercial or private sites linked from this page are intended only to supply information. No endorsement of products or firms is intended, nor is criticism implied of those not included. Other ISU Legal Information ISU Office of University Counsel ISU Copyright & Trademark Guidelines Share | Select LanguageEnglishSpanish Primary Links Block Home Disaster Recovery Events Conference Planning Statewide Calendar Upcoming Conferences Educational Areas 4-H Youth Development Agriculture and Natural Resources Community & Economic Development Human Sciences About Us About ISU Extension County Services Faculty and Staff Directory County Services Finance Finance Diversity and Civil Rights Jobs Leadership Team Office of the Vice President Professional Development Program Development and Evaluation Iowa State University Extension and Outreach, (800) 262-3804, 2150 Beardshear Hall, Ames, IA 50011-2031 Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University | Contact Us | Policies | State & National Extension Partners | For Staff | Website Log In