Skip to main content Main Menu About Role of Title IX Officer OCRSM Staff Sexual Misconduct Reporting Obligations for Faculty Reporting Obligations of Supervisory Staff Steps To Take Following A Sexual Assault Prohibited Conduct Definitions Frequently Asked Questions Forms Annual Reports Discrimination Disability & Accessibility Policy and Procedures Non-Discrimination Policy and Procedures Title IX Non-Discrimination Notice Pregnant & Parenting for Students Resources On-Campus Confidential Resources Off-Campus Confidential Resources University Resources Resources for Specific Populations Campus Involvement Federal Resources Training Available Courses New Employees Training Materials Contact Us File a Report Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct Questions? Need help? Contact Us: Call 301-405-1142 Health-Related Precautions The Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct (OCRSM) supports the University of Maryland’s commitment to a working and learning environment free from sexual misconduct and discrimination. OCRSM staff continue to practice the suggested health-related precautions. OCRSM staff remain available for scheduled appointments. To speak with an OCRSM staff member Call 301-405-1142 Email titleixcoordinator@umd.edu Office Overview The Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct (OCRSM) administers the University of Maryland's non-discrimination policies and works to foster a learning and working environment free from all forms of discrimination and harassment, including sexual misconduct. OCRSM is sometimes referred to as the Title IX Office. OCRSM administers University policies and procedures prohibiting and addressing discrimination and harassment based on race, color, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, marital status, age, national origin, political affiliation, physical or mental disability, religion, protected veteran status or any other legally protected characteristic. Contact Us TITLE IX NON-DISCRIMINATION NOTICE Join OCRSM at Maryland Day! The OCRSM Table on McKeldin Mall will provide information about the office, campus resources, and giveaways. ISSS is partnering with the Office of Civil Rights and Sexual Misconduct (OCRSM) for the final International Coffee Hour of the Spring Term! Join us on 5/5 from 2:30pm - 3:30pm in the HJ Patterson Global Crossroads to learn about the resources and services OCRSM has to offer. Register at: http://go.umd.edu/CHSP22 Quick Exit Title IX Non-Discrimination Notice Call Us at 301-405-1142 Contact Us File a Report Securely Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct 4200 Lehigh Rd, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742 301-405-1142 · titleIXcoordinator@umd.edu Visit our Twitter Visit our Facebook Visit our Instagram Visit our Youtube Information for Visitors FAQ's Contact Us Careers Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct UMD Police Department Accessibility Policies & Procedures Public Records Request Back to Top