Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Brown Resources and Policies POLICIES AND PROCEDURAL RESOURCES The below policies and procedures resources should be reviewed by all Brown researchers. If you have any questions about complying with these policies and procedures, the best course of action is to ask. Any questions can be sent to [email protected] if you are unsure of the best point of contact and will be routed to the most appropriate subject matter expert. More information about International Travel and Collaborations can be found here. Related Policies and SOPs Conflict of Interest and Commitment Policy Conflict of Interest in Research Policy Policy on Outside Professional Activities for Faculty Standard Operating Procedure: Foreign Support and Disclosure Review and Actions Export Control and Economic Sanctions Policy Export Control Compliance Manual Guidance on Authorship in Scholarly and Scientific Publications Brown University Patent and Invention Policy and Copyright Policy Brown University Research Data and Research Materials Management, Sharing, and Retention Policy Related Procedures and Resources Material Transfer Agreements Brown Technology Innovations (BTI) assists faculty with Materials Transfer Agreements (MTAs), enabling investigators to get rapid access to materials and transfer materials to others, while ensuring that the parties’ rights are fully protected. An MTA is a written contract between a provider and a recipient of research material. The parties to the contract may be between academic, government, and commercial organizations. The sharing of research products is critical to continuing progress in science, and BTI works expeditiously to turn around these agreements which protect the rights of the different parties with regard to publication, freedom of research, confidentiality, and intellectual property. Brown Technology Innovations negotiates and signs these agreements on behalf of Brown. It is critically important that you initiate an MTA when transferring research materials internationally, to ensure appropriate terms are negotiated and an export control compliance review is completed. Confidentiality Agreements (CDAs) Brown Technology Innovations assists faculty with confidentiality agreements (CDAs), enabling investigators to provide confidential or proprietary information to third parties. Under certain limited circumstances you might also be asked to enter into CDAs in order to receive confidential information from others. In either case, BTI negotiates these agreements, which are aimed at protecting Brown’s rights and those of our investigators such as the right to publish. Brown Technology Innovations negotiates and signs these agreements on behalf of Brown. It is critically important that you initiate a CDA when you intend to provide confidential or proprietary information to international third parties. Data Use Agreements ORI negotiates and signs Data Use Agreements that involve research data. From start to finish, ORI will coordinate all behind-the-scenes required reviews (e.g., with CIS, OGC, etc.) and work expeditiously to bring draft agreements to execution on behalf of the investigator. ORI requires completion of the Data Use Agreement (“DUA”) Request form for all proposed incoming and outgoing DUAs to ensure that appropriate terms & conditions are negotiated. It is critically important that you initiate a DUA when you intend to send or otherwise transport data internationally. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities University & Sponsor Disclosures Brown Resources and Policies International Travel & Collaborations Visitors to Brown Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat