Skip to main content UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Sections × UCF News | Stories of Impact + Innovation | Orlando, FL Arts Business Colleges Community Health Opinions Science & Tech Sports Student Life Tuesday, May 31, 2022 88ºF Mostly cloudy Opinions UCF Journalism Student on the Impact of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas Shooting Alexandra Sullivan was a first-year student on the school’s yearbook staff at the time of the 2018 shooting. She shares how media coverage of the event changed her view on the field and how she helped pay tribute to the 17 people tragically killed. New Habits for the New Year Program Coordinator and Professor Michele Gregorie Gill shares a few of her favorite things that have helped her with cueing and rewarding new behaviors. My Name Is Ren As Ren Joseph approaches graduation on Friday, he reflects on how his time at UCF helped him find even more of himself. Knights Do That: The Future of Space Exploration Phil Metzger ’00MS’05PhD, a planetary scientist with nearly 30 years of experience at NASA, shares stories from working on the space shuttle missions, his controversial research on whether Pluto is a planet, and what the future of space exploration will look like. ﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ Knights Do That Podcast: Fostering Inclusion Through Arts and LGBTQ+ History Martha Brenckle, writing and rhetoric professor in the College of Arts and Humanities, shares her expertise and love for writing and involvement within the Orlando arts and LGBTQ+ communities. Self Healing Begins with Loyalty to You The decisions and choices we make today have an incredible impact on our tomorrow. Going Fast and Taking It Slow Hypersonic flight that gets us halfway across the world in just two hours is a game-changer in mobility with the potential to alter life as we know it. From the CFO: Communication and Change Management How embracing change and working together moves us forward for the greater good. Knights Do That Podcast: Expertise from a Breast Cancer Researcher Annette Khaled, a College of Medicine professor and the head of the Division of Cancer Research at UCF discusses her expertise and explains some of the biggest mysteries of breast cancer that we’re still trying to solve. How I Say It with a Button They may seem like insignificant accessories, but buttons have proved to be useful tools, words of encouragement and declarations of self-expression. UCF in the News Sea Turtle Nesting Season off to a Strong Start on Florida’s Atlantic Beaches Orlando Sentinel UCF Calls for More Research Spending, Faculty and Fundraising in Latest Strategic Plan Orlando Business Journal Where No Ice Was Seen Before: UCF Team Designs Lunar Satellite Tools to Hunt for Water Orlando Sentinel UCF, Orlando Health Testing Medical Technology That Could Help Detect Blood Clots Faster WOFL Fox 35 View All Stories about UCF Events at UCF May 31 Alcoholics Anonymous 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Peer Mentor for Summer Research Academy 12:00 am - 11:45 pm Jun 1 Application Deadline: Summer Research Academy 9:00 am - 10:00 pm View All Events Resources About UCF Today For the Media News Archive Pegasus Magazine Tell Us What You Think Suggest a Story University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida