Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Proposal Review & Submission Classes (Pre-Award) Proposal Review & Submission Training Classes Offered To register for classes go to Workday Learning to log in. Cost Sharing on Sponsored Projects This workshop is applicable to both Pre-Award and Post Award, and will discuss cost sharing and it's impact to the University and the federal regulations governing cost sharing on sponsored projects. Topics that will be discussed include: Sources of funding, the difference between voluntary committed and voluntary uncommitted cost share, cost share prior approval process, tracking cost share expenditures and cost sharing best practices. A calculator is required. Fundamentals Pre-Award “Fundamentals" will familiarize attendees with the basics of research administration at the University, University policies and processes, and also take a look at the life cycle of an award here at Brown. NIH - F32 Fellowship Grants This workshop will offer an in-depth overview of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Ruth L. Kirschstein National Research Service Awards (NRSA) Individual Fellowship Funding Opportunities. It will define and review the various NIH Fellowship Application requirements as well as provide hands on experience entering the proposals in Coeus. Participants will become familiar with the key components of a fellowship application (e.g. eligibility, content, forms, budget requirements, etc.) and with Coeus-Fellowship specific requirements. Reading the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) and Budgeting Basics This workshop will offer an in-depth overview of the initial stage of the Proposal Development process, Reading the Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) and define fundamental principles for preparing the budget components of a grant proposal. It will define and review the various types of Federal and Private Foundation funding opportunity announcements available. Participants will learn to identify the key components of an announcement, (e.g research objectives, eligibility, dates, available funds, content, forms, budget requirements, & special terms and conditions). In order to accomplish that, various examples of actual Federal and Private FOA's will be provided and reviewed. It is intended for indiviudals with limited proposal experience; however those with experience are welcomed to attend as well. This class will cover budgeting basics for those less familiar with costing a sponsored activity. We will learn the purpose of a budget, the relevant University and sponsor regulations, categories of major sponsored projects costs and key questions to ask when building a budget. This workshop is appropriate for budget novices. NIH - K (Career Grants) This workshop will offer an in-depth overview of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Career Development Awards. It will define and review the various NIH K Award Application requirements as well as provide tips and experience entering the proposals in Coeus. Participants will become familiar with the key components of a Career Development application (e.g. eligibility, content, forms, budget requirements, etc.) and with Coeus K-Award specific requirements. The training is intended for individuals with Coeus proposal preparation experience; however those without experience are welcomed to attend as well. NIH - T32 Training Grants This workshop will offer an in-depth pre and post-award overview of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Research Service Awards (NRSA) Institutional Training (T) Grants. It will define and review the various NRSA Training Grants Application requirements as well as provide tips on entering the proposals in Coeus. Participants will become familiar with the key components of a training grant application (e.g. eligibility, content, forms, budget requirements, etc.) and with Coeus-Training Grants specific requirements. The training will culminate with a review of some of the most troublesome and confusing aspects of administering a training grant once awarded Subawards This session explores the process of issuing subawards from Brown University to other organizations under our sponsored awards. The course covers the difference between subawards and procurement, what is required at the proposal stage, what is required at the award stage, risk assessment and subcontract modification and close-out. Grant and Contract Negotiations This workshop will highlight the most common areas of negotiation associated with sponsored research grants and contracts. Using real-life examples, participants will gain a better understanding of what types of issues can arise in the terms and conditions of sponsored research agreements. We will discuss the importance of these terms with regard to scholarly and research practices as well as business implications for the University, recipient Principal Investigator, and Department. Advanced Topics The sessions are geared toward the more seasoned Research Administrators, who are looking for the opportunity to engage with their peers and discuss challenging topics. Attendees will examine case studies, participate in high level discussions on processes & best practices, and have the opportunity to share insight into some of the more challenging areas of Research Administration. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Proposal Review & Submission Training OSP Brown Bag Series Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat