Skip to main content Colorado State University Colorado State University - responsive signature graphic Toggle navigation Menu Admissions Academics Research Athletics Alumni Give Engagement COVID-19 For information and updates regarding COVID-19's impact on Campus, Please click here Resources Toggle Resource Modal Window Resources Icon Privacy Statement Commitment to Individual Privacy Colorado State University is committed to protecting the privacy and accuracy of confidential information submitted by employees, students, and visitors to our website. We do not actively share personal information gathered. However, because Colorado State University is a public institution, some information collected from the Colorado State University website may be subject to the Colorado Public (Open) Records Act. Thus, in some cases we may be compelled by law to release information gathered from our Web servers. This may include server log information, e-mail messages sent to an individual identified on the website, and information collected from Web-based forms. Colorado Public (Open) Records Act (C.R.S. 24-72 201 et seq.) It is the declared public policy of the State of Colorado that all public records shall be open for inspection by any person at reasonable times, except as otherwise provided by law. Public Records are defined by this law as all writings made or maintained by a state institution, such as Colorado State University, regardless of the format or medium of the records. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. §1232g) Colorado State University also complies with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which generally prohibits the release of students’ education records without consent. FERPA only applies to currently enrolled students. For more information on FERPA please refer to the Student Rights and Responsibilities Section of the Colorado State University General Catalog. Information Collection It is Colorado State University’s policy to collect the least amount of personally identifiable information required to fulfill its required duties and responsibilities, to complete a particular transaction or as required by law. This policy applies to the collection of all personally identifiable information, regardless of the source or medium. For site administration functions, information, other than personal information linked to a particular individual, is collected for analysis and statistical purposes of website navigation. This information is used to help diagnose problems, assess what information is of most interest, determine technical design specifications, identify system performance and/or problem areas, and other administration functions. You may choose whether or not to provide personal information to Colorado State University via the Internet. If you choose not to provide the personal information we request, you can still visit most of Colorado State University’s websites, but you may be unable to access certain options, offers, and services that involve our interaction with you. Security Wherever your personal information may be held within Colorado State University or on its behalf, we intend to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect the information that you share with us from unauthorized access or disclosure. Browser Cookies Some of our Web pages utilize “cookies.” A “cookie” is a small text file that may be used, for example, to collect information about website activity. Some cookies may serve to recall personal information previously indicated by a Web user. Cookies created by Colorado State University Web pages cannot be read by a third party. Most browsers allow you to control cookies, including whether or not to accept them and how to remove them. You may set most browsers to notify you if you receive a cookie, or you may choose to block cookies with your browser. Tracking Technologies Tracking technologies may record information such as Internet domain and host names; Internet protocol (IP) addresses; browser software and operating system types; clock stream patterns; and dates and times that our site is accessed. Our use of tracking technologies allows us to analyze trends and statistics to improve our website and your Web experience. Data used from tracking technologies is not linked to Web users’ personal information. Third Party Services On Colorado State University’s behalf, third parties may provide certain services available on Colorado State University websites. Colorado State University may provide information, including personal information, collected on the Web to third-party service providers to help us deliver programs, products, information and services. Service providers are also an important means by which Colorado State University maintains its website and mailing lists. We will take reasonable steps to ensure that these third-party service providers are obligated to protect personal information on our behalf. Requests for Data Deletion Various laws provide the opportunity for individuals to request deletion of information about them held by an organization. For a statement on these issues, including contact information for submitting requests, see the Colorado State University GDPR site. Disclaimer The information provided in this privacy statement should NOT be construed as giving business, legal, or other advice, or as warranting the security of information provided through this website. Colleges: Agricultural Sciences Business Health and Human Sciences Liberal Arts Morgan Library Natural Sciences Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences Walter Scott, Jr. College of Engineering Warner College of Natural Resources Schools & Programs: Graduate School International Programs School of Biomedical Engineering School of Advanced Materials Discovery School of Education School of Global Environmental Sustainability School of Music, Theatre and Dance School of Public Health School of Social Work Contact: Admissions CSU Online more... CSU System: CSU-Pueblo CSU-Global Campus CSU Denver Center CSU Spur CSU System Contact CSU Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement Accessibility Statement Disclaimer CARES Act © 2022 Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523 USA Close Office 365 | Google Apps 301543-CSUhomepage_icons_calendar Calendar Canvas Find People Campus Maps Jobs SOURCE (news) Search: CSU A-Z: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Prospective Students Academics Admissions Apply Campus Maps Connect with CSU Consumer Information and Disclosures Costs & Financial Aid CSU Online Disability Center Get Information Graduate School Housing & Dining Inclusive Excellence Student Financial Services Sustainability The CSU Experience Visiting Campus Current Students RAMweb Canvas Email (Office 365) Email (Google Workspace) Advising Associated Students of Colorado State University (ASCSU) Bookstore Building Alterations, Repairs & Maintenance CARES Act Campus Recreation Career Center Consumer Information and Disclosures CSU Online Disability Center eID Financial Aid General Catalog Health Network Housing & Dining Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Physical & Virtual Campus The Institute for Learning and Teaching Libraries Payment Options Parents & Family RamLink Registrar/Records Summer Session Sustainability You@CSU Faculty & Staff Email (Office 365) Microsoft Teams GlobalProtect VPN (Replaces Pulse) DUO: Two factor authentication instructions Canvas ARIESweb Administrative Applications and Resources (AAR) Administrative Professional Council Administration Building Alterations, Repairs & Maintenance Commitment to Campus Classified Personnel Council eID Employee Conflict Resolution General Catalog Human Resources Faculty Council Inclusive Excellence Inclusive Physical & Virtual Campus The Institute for Learning and Teaching Libraries My Learning Registrar Sustainability Talent Development University Grievance Officer Work-Life Balance More Faculty and Staff Resources