Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Salina Kansas City Salina School of Medicine-Salina School of Nursing-Salina Resources and Support Facilities Community Kansas Center for Rural Health Wichita Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Kansas City Salina School of Medicine-Salina School of Nursing-Salina Resources and Support Facilities Community Kansas Center for Rural Health Wichita Salina Salina Facilities Find your way around Salina's Health Education Center in downtown, five blocks north of the Salina Regional Health Center campus. About the Health Education Center Our building, located in downtown Salina, is home to the schools of Medicine and Nursing. Formerly a bank, the building lent itself to adaptation for a new 56,000-square-foot educational space. The Health Education Center is located in downtown Salina. Curriculum for the schools of Medicine and Nursing utilizes both on-site faculty and interactive televideo (ITV). The use of simulation offers students opportunities to develop clinical skills, interprofessional collaboration and emergency preparedness. Simulation events facilitated by faculty create a safe environment for practice and reflection that will benefit future patients and their families. Our building features classrooms for the schools of Medicine and Nursing, as well as study areas, simulation and clinical skills spaces, and much more. A fitness room in the Health Education Center is available for students to use. A Downtown Location The downtown location places the school in the center of a high-visibility area of Salina that offers restaurants, arts and entertainment attractions and recreation centers. Building Features The building features classrooms for both schools, study areas, simulation and procedural skills labs, clinical skills exam rooms, faculty and staff offices, meeting rooms, and a student lounge and fitness room. Simulation Spaces The use of simulation provides an opportunity for both medical and nursing students to develop clinical skills, interprofessional collaboration and emergency preparedness. Simulation events facilitated by faculty create a safe environment for practice and reflection that will benefit future patients and their families. Teaching and Technology Students attending on the Salina campus receive the same curriculum as their peers enrolled in the same programs on the Kansas City or Wichita campuses. Curriculum for the schools of Medicine and Nursing utilizes both on-site faculty and interactive televideo (ITV). ITV allows students to connect with their peers and faculty on other campuses for classes and meetings. Resources and Support Learn more about resources available for students in Salina, from health and wellness to academic support and more. Salina Resources Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.