Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Academics You are here Home Academics Search Degrees and Programs Pursue your intellectual and personal passions through Temple’s 400+ dynamic academic programs. You’ll study with faculty at the forefront of their fields in both scholarship and teaching. Learn to question your own assumptions and test innovative hypotheses as part of a diverse, engaged student body. Search all Programs Explore Majors and Minors Undergraduate Majors and Minors Beginning your college career? Choose this option to start exploring. Explore Majors and Minors Undergraduate Majors and Minors Explore Programs Graduate and Professional Programs Advance your knowledge with nationally-recognized doctor, master and PhD programs. Explore Programs Graduate and Professional Programs Browse All Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges Varying in size and personality, Temple's 17 schools and colleges will become your "home away from home" as you work toward your degree. Each offers outstanding faculty who provide a stimulating learning environment where ideas are born and futures are forged. Browse All Schools and Colleges Schools and Colleges More in this section Accelerated Programs Earn both a bachelor’s and an advanced degree in a shorter time period than it would take to complete two separate programs. Temple University offers several options for accelerated degrees to academically qualified students. Learn more. Campuses From Philadelphia to Rome, pursue your degree on one of Temple’s eight vibrant campuses located around the globe. Enjoy the quiet retreat of a suburban campus, or dive into the infectious energy of the city at one of Temple’s multiple urban centers. Take advantage of cultural resources and learning experiences outside the classroom by attending a local theater performance or pursuing fieldwork at a community youth center. Learn more about Temple’s campuses. Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Learn a new set of skills or nourish an existing interest through Temple’s flexible continuing education program and summer sessions. Diverse continuing education classes range from real estate licensure courses to training in the performing arts. Whether you’re seeking college admission, professional development, or are simply hungry for new knowledge, you’ll shape a personalized curriculum to reach your goals. Take classes at convenient times with multiple online options to maximize your academic growth while balancing the rest of your life. Use a summer session to delve into a challenging course without interruption or get ahead in your coursework outside the regular semester’s constraints. Learn more about Temple’s Continuing Education program and summer sessions. Courses and Schedules Temple offers thousands of courses available from early mornings to evenings and weekends. Broaden your intellectual horizons with general core courses and challenge yourself with more advanced, specialized offerings and research opportunities. Structure your academic life to blend seamlessly with your personal and extracurricular commitments, whether you live on campus or commute each day. Learn more about Temple’s courses and schedules. Dual Degree Programs Enhance your expertise by earning complementary degrees that will build your qualifications and help take your career to the next level. Temple offers several dual degree programs through partnerships between its schools and colleges. Explore dual degree options. Honors Program Gain access to high-quality advising, enriching academic opportunities and a dynamic, diverse, inclusive community. You’ll work closely with faculty to plan your academic path and chart a personalized course through career and graduate school considerations, fellowship applications, and scholarships. Learn more about Temple’s Honors Program. International Study Immerse yourself in a new culture to broaden your worldview, enrich your academic studies, or learn a foreign language. Whether you are learning how to make fresh pasta in Rome or exploring the windswept shrines of Enoshima Island near Tokyo, you’ll savor the sights, sounds and tastes of your surroundings. Strengthen your sense of self-reliance as you take on the challenges of a new culture and make meaningful connections with the people you meet. As a Temple student, you’ll have the opportunity to choose from multiple exciting locations around the globe, including programs in Oviedo, Rome and Tokyo. Learn more about international study. Libraries Temple University Libraries are the center of intellectual life on our campuses. With exceptional collections and services, our libraries serve as indispensable partners in study, teaching and research. Learn more about Temple University Libraries. Online Learning and Degrees Learning doesn’t have to be confined to campus. Temple offers a growing number of online degrees and certificates, so you can attend class from your dining-room table or from a café halfway around the world. Visit online.temple.edu for more information. Professional Licensure Disclosures Temple University has compiled the following information to help students determine the degree to which our academic programs meet the educational requirements for licensure in various U.S. states and territories. For more in-depth information about professional licensure, students should contact an academic program coordinator. Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.