Skip to main content Skip to main content Give Give Schedule a Visit Lyle Visit SMU Tour Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Electrical and Computer Engineering About ECE About ECE Message from the Chair Mission & Goals Contact Us Open Positions ABET Accreditation Academics Academics Prospective Students Current Students Undergraduate Programs Master's Programs M.S./MBA Dual Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Courses Research Research Faculty Research Areas Undergraduate Research Opportunities Laboratories and Facilities Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security AT&T Center for Virtualization People News & Events ☰ Electrical and Computer Engineering About Lyle Electrical and Computer Engineering The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at SMU focuses on cutting-edge research and offers a full complement of courses, including foundational as well as those focused on the latest technological trends. The curriculum is continuously updated to prepare Lyle students for engineering research, design and development at the forefront of these industries. Read More Academics Faculty Research Did you know? Did you know that Robert Dennard, the inventor of the DRAM, got his B.S. and M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from SMU? The DRAM is one of the most ubiquitous items in digital electronic devices. Undergraduate students who receive financial aid Internships Research grants Student job seekers employed at graduation Women undergraduate students School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube search-plus