COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Apply for external scholarships year-round! ScholarshipUniverse is our scholarship-matching tool for admitted and current Wichita State students. It connects Shockers to millions of dollars in external scholarships. Log into ScholarshipUniverse to review opportunities today! ScholarshipUniverse Cohen Honors College Scholarships Section Menu Scholarships Home Freshmen Merit Scholarships Honors College Scholarship National Merit Scholarship Sedgwick County Access Grant State of Kansas Scholarships Transfer Merit Scholarship Office of Financial Aid Honors College Merit Scholarship Who is eligible? Incoming freshmen and transfer students who are fully admitted as degree-bound students to Wichita State -- and -- Have been accepted into the WSU Cohen Honors College Incoming Freshmen: November 1st Priority Date for consideration. Transfer Students: February 1st Priority Date for consideration. NOTE: This scholarship may be combined with the Freshmen Merit Scholarship or the Transfer Merit Scholarship if you qualify for both. What does the Honors College Merit Scholarship cover? Up to $1,000 over two years ($500 / year) The scholarship will only be applied to tuition and student fees. What is the length of the Honors College Merit Scholarship ? This scholarship is awarded for up to two consecutive academic years (excluding summers) -- or -- until the student earns the first bachelor’s degree, whichever comes first. The student must also maintain awarded academic standing within the Cohen Honors College to remain eligible for this scholarship award. What are the requirements for admission to the Cohen Honors College? There are no minimum ACT/SAT or GPA requirements for admission to the Cohen Honors College. Your scores are considered part of the review with greater emphasis being placed on your essay and resume. We know some students will not have test scores or will have scores delayed due to testing date cancellations this year. Students without an ACT/SAT score are still encouraged to apply. Learn more about the admission review process and apply here. How do I apply for the Honors College Merit Scholarship? Submit the Cohen Honors College online application form. You will be required to submit the Activate Your Resume Essay and a polished resume. Learn more about each of these here. What are the renewal requirements for the Honors College Merit Scholarship? Remain in good standing in the Cohen Honors College by: Maintaining a cumulative GPA of 3.25 and take at least 3 Honors credits each year -- and -- Enrolling in and successfully completing at least 12 credit hours each semester (fall and spring) Apply for Admission to Wichita State Apply to the Cohen Honors College Learn More About the Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College 316-978-3375 honors@wichita.edu Cohen Honors College Additional Scholarships for Cohen Honors College Students In addition to the Honors College Merit Scholarship, Cohen Honors College students can also apply to be considered for the following scholarships. First-Year Students: Lenora McGregor Endowed Scholarship Koch Scholars Scholarship Program Current Honors Students: Cohen Enhancement Scholarships National Scholarships & Fellowships Cohen Honors College Scholarships 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©