Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The City Neighborhoods Housing The Arts Scene Sports The Food Scene A Music Town Directions and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home School of Law About Memphis - The City MEMPHIS - THE CITY <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe --> Memphis is a very special place, with a character, a texture, and a feel that doesn't exist in the same way in any other city. It has a legendary character that is undoubtedly the reason that "Memphis" is mentioned in more song lyrics than any other place on earth. Location has plenty to do with it. Memphis' powerful spot on the Mississippi River in the extreme southwest corner of Tennessee and its role as the biggest city in the Mid-South have historically made the city a magnet for attracting people from all over the Delta, Mississippi, Arkansas, West Tennessee, northern Alabama, and Missouri. Memphis is like that; it sneaks up on you, touches your soul, and makes you go, "What was that?" This influx of people blended with the locals, creating an interesting and distinct confluence of cultures. This cultural convergence is inextricably woven into the fabric of Memphis' history and is absolutely part of Memphis' vibe today. All of this gives Memphis a special, unforgettable yet hard-to-describe feeling. It's a city with heart and soul. It's manifested in the people, in the places, in the food, in the culture, and in the history of the city itself. We're proud of our city and proud of the way the world has recognized us of late, with a variety of different accolades such as: A Forbes Magazine top 15 listing in the top U.S. Cities with Emerging Downtowns list. One of the Top Ten Tastiest Towns, according to Southern Living. CNN listed us as one of the Hottest Housing Markets in the United States in 2014. Memphis is consistently ranked as one of the most affordable cities, with recent high rankings in the Huffington Post and Kiplinger. We've got Beale Street, the #1 Most Iconic American Street, according to USA Today. The Memphis Grizzlies were named the #1 Sports Team in ESPN Magazine's 2013 "Ultimate Standings" list. For a great look at what to do in Memphis, check out this article from New York Magazine, featuring a wide range of things to do, places to stay, and locales to eat at, all from a local's perspective. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/29/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.