Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Physical Therapy DPT You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Physical Therapy DPT Apply Request More Info Physical Therapy DPT Accreditation & Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Doctor of Physical Therapy The Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) in Temple’s College of Public Health is a rigorous professional program that prepares students for entry-level generalist physical therapy practice in a variety of clinical and community settings. This program emphasizes evidence-based decision-making, a collaborative learning environment, strong faculty mentorship, and state-of-the-art facilities and resources. Physical therapists examine, evaluate and treat patients who have movement-related disorders or conditions that affect their ability to move freely and without pain. DPT students engage in both classroom education and real-world practice through extensive clinical experiences. Our cohort model gives you opportunities to form lasting relationships with faculty and classmates, and to build your future professional network. Students learn from physical therapy faculty at Temple, many of whom maintain active clinical practices or engage in innovative research. Completing the DPT program will prepare you to sit for the national physical therapy examination (NPTE), and successfully passing this licensure exam will allow you to treat patients anywhere as a licensed physical therapist. Graduates of this program are prepared to provide professional clinical service in a variety of settings, including community agencies; home health agencies; hospitals; independent, outpatient orthopedic clinics; pediatric and geriatric settings; rehabilitation centers; schools; and sports medicine clinics. Some graduates also teach in physical therapy programs or conduct research. What sets apart our Doctor of Physical Therapy program? Advanced student training spaces: The DPT program is housed in a new building on Temple’s Main Campus featuring smart classrooms and specialized clinical training spaces. The program uses standardized patients and simulated experiences, all to better prepare students for the challenges of patient care. Graduate students also gain extensive experience at clinical practice sites across the nation. Explore Temple’s new education and training space. Interprofessional education opportunities: Prepare to practice as part of an interprofessional healthcare team by taking courses with students from Temple’s professional programs in athletic training, dentistry, medicine, nursing, occupational therapy, pharmacy and recreation therapy. Opportunities to gain research experience: Most faculty have active research agendas, and students are invited to participate as analysts, assistants and observers. Local and international service learning: The North Broad Physical Therapy Center is a student-led, pro bono physical therapy center dedicated to assisting underserved residents of North Philadelphia. The program also offers an annual global health service learning trip to Guatemala. 3+3 Accelerated Degree Option Exceptional freshman undergraduate students can maximize their academic investment and shorten the path to a DPT through this accelerated degree option, which allows them to earn both an undergraduate and a DPT degree in six years instead of seven. Learn more about the benefits of the College of Public Health’s 3+3 Accelerated DPT Admissions Option. Program Format The 117-credit DPT is a full-time, year-round program beginning in the summer that takes three years to complete. Graduate students develop a strong background in the foundational sciences (anatomy and physiology, movement analysis, neuroscience, pharmacology, and psychology) with an emphasis on the human movement system. The clinical education (internship) portion of the curriculum begins the first year and continues across multiple clinical placements over the course of the program. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors All DPT students are matched with a faculty advisor based on their professional interests. Your faculty advisor will serve as your primary support for navigating the curriculum and charting a personalized path that fits your academic and professional interests. Scott Burns is the program director of the Physical Therapy DPT. Phone: 215-204-9016 Email: scott.burns@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Doctor of Athletic Training PhD in Neuromotor Science PhD in Kinesiology Concentration in Integrative Exercise Physiology PhD in Kinesiology Concentration in Athletic Training Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Physical Therapy offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-PHTH-DPT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Physical Therapy DPT Accreditation & Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Curriculum Departmental Research Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info