COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters May 26, 2022 — An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge May 18, 2022 — Three Wichita State University students were named the champions of the 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge with their idea to ease parking frustrations via an app called Everwhen. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. WSU College of Engineering awards $313,500 in Wallace Scholarships March 25, 2022 — Wichita State University’s College of Engineering has named the latest group of high school seniors to join the Wallace Scholar program. Ten Wallace Scholarship recipients will receive $28,500 each to attend Wichita State for four years. In addition, two students receiving other major university scholarships will be designated as Wallace Scholars. WSU team selected for NASA SUITS Design Challenge Feb. 21, 2022 — A proposal submitted by an interdisciplinary Wichita State University team of seven members was selected for the top 10 in the 2021-22 NASA Space Suit Interface Technologies for Students (SUITS) Design Challenge. Shocker students' innovation represented at Make48 June 22, 2021 — When the Make48 invention and maker challenge comes to Wichita State University on June 24, two of the eight Wichita teams are comprised entirely of Wichita State University students. Wichita State students go phishing to reveal cybersecurity vulnerabilities June 22, 2021 - Joe Jabara doesn’t call his class Hacking 101, but his students do learn how to develop effective attacks on computer systems. The course is actually called Applied Computing Intermediate Design Project, and this past spring its students carried out phishing attempts against a targeted group of Wichita State University faculty, staff and students. Wichita State seniors partner with McConnell's Innovation Lab May 12, 2021 — Two Wichita State University seniors have partnered with the McConnell Air Force Base Innovation Lab to help fight COVID-19 – by using robotics. Computer science majors Lucy Hoang and Lydia Melles are creating an autonomous robot that uses ultraviolet C-lights (UVC) to clean grocery stores. Meet a Shocker: Payton Morgan May 1, 2021 – Payton Morgan, a native Wichitan, is a Wichita East High School alumnus. He chose to attend Wichita State because of the relationships he already had with Wichita State students and staff. Wichita State professors and students recognized for innovation March 16, 2021 — Wichita State University faculty and student researchers have been awarded the 2021 John A. See Innovation Award. Five Shockers featured at Kansas Undergraduate Research Days March 2, 2021 — Five Wichita State students’ projects are being highlighted as a part of the Kansas Undergraduate Research Day at the Kansas State Capitol March 2-4. Meet a Shocker: Zane Storlie Nov. 16, 2020 — Zane Storlie has not only dedicated his time at Wichita State to learning everything he can about computer science, but he’s also been an advocate for computer science education for elementary and middle school students in the area. Zane created a three-unit curriculum to teach Scratch coding to more than 750 students in Wichita Public Schools, and the Derby school district asked him to present a teacher training course to its librarians. Meeting needs of industry leads to new patents for university Aug. 3, 2020 — If necessity is the mother of invention, it may also be the source of new patents: The story of how Dr. Ali Eslami became the holder of US Patent 10,689,898 – his first – begins with a local company asking for an invention to save it money. Wichita State student 'breaks things' as software tester to help customers July 27, 2020 - Wichita State University student Kristen Bruce works as a software tester for Flint Hills Group, founded by Shocker alum Dave Cunningham. Over the past year, Bruce played an important role in Flint Hills Group’s work with McAlister, a fuel distributor and wholesaler in Wellington. McAlister needed to replace its software used to monitor fuel flow for billing. Bruce helped Flint Hills Group beat coming issues and move to a new system, while some of McAlister’s competition encountered problems. Wichita State junior wins national cybersecurity competition April 10, 2020 - Wichita State computer science major Dexter Gerig placed first in the Individual Event of the National Cyber League competition.The cybersecurity competition, over two days and eight hours, involved a series of 40 challenges with 155 questions. 1 2 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©