Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Academic Success Center Peer-Assisted Learning — PAL Information for Students Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL) is the new name for the Supplemental Instruction (SI) program. Only the name has changed. The role of the leaders and the sessions remain unchanged. What is Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL)? Peer-Assisted Learning (PAL), formerly called Supplemental Instruction (SI), is a free, peer-led program for students in historically challenging undergraduate courses. The goals of PAL sessions are to give students strategies for mastering course content and to help them become more confident, independent learners. PAL leaders conduct active, collaborative sessions to help students master a variety of subjects. What courses are supported by PAL sessions? We support courses with which significant numbers of students have experienced difficulty in the past. These courses typically include: Accounting 2010, 2020 Biology 1100, 2220, 2230 Chemistry 1010, 1020, 2230, 2240 Chemical Engineering 2110 Civil Engineering 2010 Mechanical Engineering 2010 Mathematics 1020, 1040, 1050, 1060, 1070, 1080, 2070 When are PAL sessions held? We offer eighty-minute PAL sessions throughout the week. Find the PAL schedule for your course here. You are welcome to attend any session that fits your schedule. Who are the PAL leaders? PAL leaders are upper-class undergraduate students who have already earned an A or B in the course they are supporting. They have an average cumulative GPA of 3.7. PAL leaders attend class lectures with students to hear the material the instructor presents and the questions students ask. They then facilitate two study sessions each week on the course content. PAL leaders can assist you by: using collaborative learning activities to review material, practice problem-solving skills, and helping you to assess what you’ve learned. How can I benefit most from PAL? Schedule your time so that you attend at least one session each week. Students who attend six or more PAL sessions generally earn a higher percentage of As and a lower percentage of Ds or Fs than students who never attend a PAL session. Before you come, you can benefit by: attempting your homework completing reading assignments bringing your textbook and class notes preparing questions about course content you're having difficulty understanding While you’re at the session, you can benefit by: staying for the entire session actively participating in discussions and activities communicating with your PAL leader about what you want to learn Who attends PAL sessions? Students take advantage of PAL sessions to further their learning and understanding of the course concepts. Some students attend sessions because they have aspirations to enroll in professional or graduate school and are striving to make an A in the course. Other students who may be struggling in the course attend PAL to increase their understanding and mastery of the course content. Total number of 2014-15 PAL session contacts: 36,843 Total number of 2014-15 courses supported: 35 Percentage of students enrolled in a PAL-supported course who attended at least one PAL session: 51.8% What are students saying about PAL? According to students, PAL is: Essential: “[PAL] for me is not optional, but a MUST!” Productive: “[It involves] studying efficiently and not wasting time.” Collaborative: “It is…helpful to see how other students approach problem solving.” Self-empowering: “The leader really helped me understand problems by not just giving me the answer but letting me think about ways of solving the problems.” Why should I take advantage of PAL? Data show that participation in PAL sessions can positively impact your grades. On average, students who attend six or more PAL sessions during a semester achieve a higher percentage of As and Bs than non-participants and a lower percentage of Cs, Ds, Fs, and Ws than non-participants: DFW rate for students who attend six or more sessions: 14.9% DFW rate for students who attend zero to five sessions: 28.9% Visit PAL Schedule View Tutoring Schedule Register for Workshops Schedule an Advising Appointment Schedule a Coaching Appointment Home About the Center About the Class of 1956 ASC Awards Academic Advising Success Matters CU 1000 For New Students and Families For Faculty and Staff For Prospective Student Employees Contact Us Related Links Academic Advising Academic Eligibility Policy Academic Forgiveness Policy Center for Career and Professional Development Catalog, Undergraduate Courses Counseling and Psychological Services Libraries Majors Ombuds, Undergraduate Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Student Accessibility Services Undergraduate Studies Writing Center Downloads ASC Annual Report Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram