Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Certificate (Undergraduate) Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Undergraduate Certificate Acquire advanced knowledge of security challenges and crimes with the Undergraduate Certificate in Cybersecurity and Human Behavior in Temple’s College of Liberal Arts. This 15-credit Undergraduate Certificate program focuses on the human element of cybersecurity, and prepares you to be a strong contributor to the cybersecurity discourse and community. Through the curriculum, you’ll learn about the overall area of cybercrime and how technology has impacted other crimes, such as hate crimes, organized crime, terrorism and white collar crime. You’ll also learn to approach situations from multiple perspectives; define problems, determine causes and develop solutions that specifically addresses these causes; evaluate information sources; and organize summaries of research findings. A global shortage of two million cybersecurity professionals is expected by 2022. The Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Undergraduate Certificate program prepares future graduates to meet the needs of professional organizations through a curriculum that expands beyond engineering- and technology-specific disciplines. Unlike most cybersecurity programs, a certificate program offered in the College of Liberal Arts presents diverse perspectives and a unique opportunity for students. Classes & Curriculum This certificate is only available to undergraduate students enrolled at Temple. The program includes two cybersecurity core courses and allows you to choose three electives. These courses examine the elements of cybersecurity and the different types of cybercrime, providing a well-rounded understanding of what you will encounter as a cybersecurity professional. Some of the courses in the certificate program include Cybercrime, Hate Crimes and Terrorism, Transnational Crime and Global Security. Learn more about courses in the Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Undergraduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Criminal Justice MA Criminal Justice PhD Careers The Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Undergraduate Certificate prepares you for careers in cybersecurity as you’ll develop an understanding for the relevance of the human factor in cyberattacks and cybersecurity. Some of these positions include forensic computer analyst, information security engineer and security administrator. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact If you have questions about the certificate program, contact the program administrator. Aunshul Rege is an associate professor in the Criminal Justice Department. Phone: 215-204-1671 Email: rege@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-CYHB-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Cybersecurity and Human Behavior Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.