Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Apply Request More Info Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Aid Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Study how U.S. private practice dental clinics are managed with the Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD in the Kornberg School of Dentistry at Temple University. This 24-month advanced doctoral program is specifically tailored for experienced dentists trained at international schools who seek to practice in the U.S. Students learn in a comprehensive general dentistry clinic that simulates private practice and follows American Dentistry Association guidelines. Students are eligible to take licensing exams to practice dentistry in any state upon successful completion of this program. The program comprehensively prepares students through didactic and clinical curricula, which are complemented by studies of U.S. practice models, laws, codes of ethics and practice management models. Research opportunities and extensive clinical experience are the cornerstones of excellence for the program. You’ll advance your career alongside a diverse cohort of fellow dentists from around the world, deepening your knowledge of dentistry at the second-oldest dental institution in the country. The program’s focus on patient-centered practice helps you form an understanding of and empathy for treating individuals across communities with diverse populations and a variety of oral healthcare needs. Kornberg School of Dentistry is located on Temple’s Health Sciences Campus, which offers access to cutting-edge technology in clinical settings. Train alongside faculty members working at the forefront of innovative research in the field. This Dentistry DMD program is approved by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA). Applicants should have completed a non-CODA graduate program at a peer institution; passed both Part I & II or Integrated version (INDBE) of the National Dental Examination Boards before matriculation; and graduated from a CODA-accredited residency or post-graduate program, or retained at least two years of clinical experience following their first dental degree. Along with an assessment of pre-clinical skills, a superior knowledge of the English language will be considered. To meet this requirement, a TOEFL score of 100 or higher or a similar score with an equivalent English language testing service is required. Contents Program FormatPatient-centered CareClasses & CurriculumRelated Graduate CertificatesTuition & Fees Program Format The 24-month program will accept experienced dentists who graduated from international dental schools. Preferences will be given to applicants with advanced clinical experience and who match the standards for competency expected from students moving into the junior year of the dental school at Temple University. Classes for the two-year program begin in April 2022. Those who apply for the two-year program and are waitlisted are eligible for the 36-month program if seats are available. The Kornberg School of Dentistry offers vacated seats in the second year of the pre-doctoral program to qualified foreign-trained dentists. Classes for this program begin in August 2022. Patient-centered Care Established in 1863, Kornberg is the second-oldest dental school in the U.S. The school remains committed to its founding principle of educating dentists who are equipped to provide excellent oral healthcare to all, including disadvantaged members of the community and special-needs patients. The DMD program takes a humanistic approach and is rooted in the belief that a better quality of life can be achieved through the integration of comprehensive oral healthcare into primary healthcare. To that end, the program puts the patient at the center of your education, preparing you to provide compassionate, considerate and professional care to all patients. Classes & Curriculum The curriculum is designed to replicate all aspects of a private practice in the U.S. Coursework emphasizes ethical and professional conduct, helps students develop a broad range of necessary practice management and leadership skills and expertise, and trains students to communicate and ethically treat diverse patient populations in a variety of clinical settings. Learn more about courses in this program. Related Graduate Certificates Advanced Education in General Dentistry Endodontics Orthodontics Periodontics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Doctor of Dental Medicine offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Tuition: $85,477 annually Program Contact David Dams is the assistant director of admissions for the Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD program. Phone: 215-707-3304 Email: david.dams@temple.edu Accreditation The program in predoctoral dental education is accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation [and has been granted the accreditation status of “approval without reporting requirements”]. The Commission is a specialized accrediting body recognized by the United States Department of Education. The Commission on Dental Accreditation can be contacted at (312) 440-4653 or at 211 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611. The Commission’s web address is http://www.ada.org/en/coda. DN-DNFT-DMD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Dentistry (Advanced Standing Program for Internationally Trained Dentists) DMD Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info