Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory LGBTQ Center Graduate Student Resources LGBTQ Center Graduate Student Resources The LGBTQ Center is seeking creative and scholarly submissions for the inaugural issue of the graduate journal Undone: A Legacy of Queer (Re)imaginings. The first issue, “Queering Across Borders,” takes up queer narratives and methods as they relate to conceptualizations of "the border." Undone is a multidisciplinary journal that publishes work from the sciences, humanities, and social sciences as well as interdisciplinary work that intermingles methodological approaches in provocative and generative ways. We are seeking academic articles and longform essays from all disciplines as well as short fiction, visual art, comics, and filmic or audio pieces. Call for Submissions For any questions, contact Undone at [email protected] More information about the journal can be found at undonegradjournal.com Deviant Bodies, Deviant Minds” is a reading group that fosters community-building through shared dialog and open discussion on issues including, but not limited to queerness, racialized subjectivity, disability, class, and their various intersections. The group is an intentional space that acknowledges the already existing intersections of the queer graduate community and the graduate community of color, while simultaneously offering a forum for the exploration of connections, attachments, and solidarities that may as yet have been unexplored by participants. Although created through the Graduate School’s Community Fellows Pilot program*, we want this group to continue to grow and serve as a space for deep conversation and community-building as it adapts to the needs of new members (and new radical visions) for years to come. You do not have to identify as queer or a person of color to participate. Everyone is welcome. Please visit the website here for our full schedule and sign-up for the mailing list to get updates and make suggestions for topics and collaborations! * The Graduate Community Fellows Program is a pilot program, administered by the Graduate School with the support of the Offices of the Provost, Institutional Diversity & Inclusion, and Global Engagement. Selected community fellows are doctoral and master’s students interested in cultivating welcoming, inclusive cultures in the graduate student community through designing and leading community building initiatives or resources. For more about the program, please visit https://www.brown.edu/academics/gradschool/academics-research/professional-development/graduate-community-fellows-program. Home About Newsletter Get Involved [email protected] Resources Grad Resources Career Planning and Job Search Resources Gender & Sexuality Studies at Brown Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies Journals Libraries, Archives, and Museums Queer Theory Reading List Reading Group Undone, Graduate and Postdoc Journal LGBTQ Community Leadership Award Alumni Lavender Graduation Print this Page Share this Page LGBTQ Center Brown University 321 Stephen Robert '62 Campus Center Mailing Address: Box 1915 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3062 [email protected] Calendar Jun 1 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 2 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 3 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 4 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit Jun 5 All Day “Tomboy” Exhibit View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory LGBTQ Links Trevor Project Youth Pride, Inc. PFLAG AIDS Care Ocean State The Task Force Connect with us LGBTQC on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Join our email lists