Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery About the Institute About the Institute Our Work Toggle information Close detail panel New Caldonian crow (Corvus moneduloides). Christian Rutz, the 2019–2020 Grass Fellow at Harvard Radcliffe Institute and a professor of biology at the University of St Andrews, Scotland, used his time at Radcliffe to reflect on ways his years of research illuminating the extraordinary tool-making ability of New Caledonian crows might help generate future insights on human technological progress. Photo by Vincent J. Musi, Nat Geo Collection Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s work spans all disciplines and professions. The Institute provides invaluable support to scholars and students pursuing pathbreaking research and creative projects, including Radcliffe fellows, participants in seminars and workshops, and those inspired by the Schlesinger Library’s rich collections. Harvard Radcliffe Institute also offers a wide range of events and exhibitions, which are free and open to the public. These programs reflect our commitment to expanding access to the University and to supporting the robust exchange of ideas. As part of our strategic plan, Radcliffe Engaged, launched in 2019, the Institute identified two initial focus areas that place greater emphasis on research applications; scholarship that engages civic and community partners, public debates, and broader audiences; and supporting the development of Harvard students. Learn more about Radcliffe Engaged Learn about our work on Law, Education, and Justice Learn about our work on Youth Leadership Featured Areas of Inquiry 01 / 06 Equity & Opportunity Radcliffe is committed to work that deepens and expands human understanding by dismantling barriers. Learn More about Equity & Opportunity 02 / 06 Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery The presidential initiative on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery, announced by Harvard President Lawrence Bacow in 2019 and anchored at the Harvard Radcliffe Institute, is an effort to understand and address the enduring legacy of slavery within the University community. Learn More about Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery 03 / 06 Women, Gender, and Society Radcliffe’s founding commitment to women, gender, and society endures in our work. Learn more about Women, Gender, and Society 04 / 06 Long 19th Amendment Project The Long 19th Amendment Project is a joint initiative of Radcliffe's Schlesinger Library and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. The project supports fellowships and public programming centered on the centennial of the 19th Amendment with the aim of telling a more complete and inclusive story of women’s suffrage. Learn More about the Long 19th Amendment Project 05 / 06 Youth Leadership Across the country and around the world, young people are leading calls for social change. A new mentoring and leadership development program at the Harvard Radcliffe Institute empowers Harvard undergraduates and local high school students to drive meaningful change in their communities. Learn More about Youth Leadership 06 / 06 Law, Education, and Justice The Institute’s focus on law, education, and justice reflects a growing bipartisan consensus that historically high rates of incarceration in the United States constitute a national crisis. Learn More about Law, Education, and Justice Highlights: Science at Radcliffe 01 / 04 Slide left Slide right Mammoths, Neanderthals, and Your Ancestors Faith in Nature: Noah’s Flood and the Development of Geology Next in Science: Astronomy and Astrophysics The Rise of the Milky Way More from Radcliffe's Science Program News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now Beyond the Written Word Educator and Civil Rights Attorney Sherrilyn Ifill to Receive 2022 Radcliffe Medal Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College