COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW College of Fine Arts Section Menu About the College of Fine Arts Art, Design & Creative Industries Digital Arts Music Performing Arts Advising Scholarships Calendar of Events Box Office Venues & Performance Facilities Fine Arts Ambassadors College of Fine Arts Newsletter Stop Video Learn more about the College of Fine Arts at WSU.Request info From working side by side with acclaimed artists to countless opportunities to showcase your talent on and off campus, Wichita State's College of Fine Arts provides an environment where you can train like a professional—and gain the skills, connections and confidence to launch your dream career. Apply now On stage and on display, a larger audience awaits On campus, Shocker fine arts students in every discipline can hone their skills and share their talent, thanks to more than 500 annual performances, presentations and exhibitions. Off campus, Wichita’s galleries, theatres and music halls give our students virtually limitless opportunities to learn, network, exhibit and perform. Simply put—we make art. And we teach you to make art. Learn more about Applied Learning at WSU College of Fine Arts launches new Online Calendar of Events The College of Fine Arts has begun its slow, but steady, opening up of in-person performances and presentations. One of the most frustrating aspects of this past eighteen months has been the disconnect from our patrons that was forced upon us by the pandemic. This separation was worsened because of missed opportunities for public performances, exhibitions, and presentations by our students. With the beginning of the Fall 2021 Semester and the return of students to our campus, we again invite the public to participate in our College of Fine Arts events, both ticketed and non-ticketed. We are excited to launch our Online Calendar of Events, which can be updated on a daily basis as events are added, changed or cancelled. Individual events can be opened to reveal descriptions, images and, if ticketed, a link to the Fine Arts Box Office to purchase your tickets. Stay up to date on the latest College of Fine Arts events! College of Fine Arts Calendar of Events Elevate your passion Whether you want to perform, create, teach or work behind the curtain, WSU offers a diverse range of quality, accredited degree programs and industry connections to put you on the path to a career in the arts. WSU's commitment to interdisciplinary experiences means you'll try new things and interact with students from other colleges on innovative projects along the way. Fine Arts undergraduate degrees Fine Arts graduate degrees CFA Schools The College of Fine Arts is one of the most respected colleges of visual and performing arts in the nation. Our exceptional faculty will give you the personal training, support and perspective you need to fulfill the potential within. Art, Design and Creative Industries The School of Art, Design and Creative Industries (ADCI) is an academic hub for contemporary art, innovative design, fresh thinking, collaboration and creative risk-taking. Digital Arts Get the skills you'll need for a dream career in the video game, film or recording industry with Wichita State's innovative Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts Degree, one of the only degrees of its kind in the U.S. Music Wichita State's School of Music delivers unmatched opportunities and resources students need to become tomorrow’s musical innovators. You'll receive the skills and knowledge to transform from a good musician into a great musician. Performing Arts The School of Performing Arts is known for its professionalism and quality productions in dance, music theatre and theatre. Cutting-edge Facilities With seven buildings dedicated solely to the arts, Wichita State is an ideal habitat for artists, musicians and actors. Our campus and city are dotted with galleries, theaters, performance spaces and studios. Shocker Studios Shocker Studios is home to WSU's innovative Bachelor of Applied Arts in Media Arts program, and features high-tech studios for audio production, game design, video, motion capture and animation. Ulrich Museum of Art WSU’s Ulrich Museum of Art is home to more than 6,000 works, including one of the largest and most renowned outdoor sculpture collections of its kind. Artists also have access to many student-run galleries, including ShiftSpace, located in downtown Wichita. Wiedemann Hall Wiedemann Hall is home to The Great Marcussen Organ, the first of its kind to be built in North America. The 425-seat hall houses recitals and small ensemble performances. Large ensembles and operas perform in the 530-seat Miller Concert Hall inside the adjacent Duerksen Fine Arts Center. Wilner Auditorium 600-seat Wilner Auditorium is home to the WSU School of Performing Arts and serves as the main stage for theatre activities. It is one of four theaters at WSU, including the 100-seat Welsbacher Black Box Theatre, which houses student-led productions. Advising Academic Advising at Wichita State University is a personalized way to explore options and make good decisions that help you attain your educational and career goals. Scholarships and Financial Aid The WSU College of Fine Arts offers program-specific scholarships that are audition (or portfolio) based. In addition, eligible Shocker fine arts students have access to general scholarships—including freshmen merit scholarships worth up to $24,000—and other forms of financial aid. Start the adventure now! Apply now Request info Visit us WSU creates new School of Digital Arts Two years after the successful launch of Wichita State University’s Bachelor of Applied Arts (BAA) in Media Arts program, the university has created the new School of Digital Arts. The school will be the fourth school within WSU’s College of Fine Arts and will encompass the BAA program, which includes concentrations in animation, audio production, filmmaking, game design and collaborative design. Read full story College of Fine Arts news All Fine Arts News All WSU News Mural is a wish fulfilled for Honors student Wichita State student Sarah Myose had the winning entry in a competition to paint a mural on the Clinton Hall stairs. Their inspiration came from her time teaching children to paint dandelions and they completed the mural just in time for the start of the fall semester. WSU Opera Theater premieres Holocaust opera The Wichita State Opera Theater and the WSU Symphony Wind Ensemble presented the North American premiere of “The Path to Heaven”, a one-act opera that tells the story of young people as they face the horrors of the holocaust. Video: WSU Kansas Dance Festival Watch Darrell Grand Moultrie’s “the Zone” along with other exceptional works of contemporary choreography at the Kansas Dance Festival at WSU. More about the College of Fine Arts Calendar of Events Fine Arts Box Office CFA Institute Upcoming Fine Arts events 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©