Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Dispute Resolution Master's Degree Master's Degree Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Curriculum Study Abroad Academic Calendar Course and Seminar Schedule Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Scholarships Grad. Certificate Grad. Certificate Admissions & Financial Information Course Descriptions Course & Seminar Schedule Curriculum Scholarships Executive & Leadership Coaching Faculty & Staff Apply ☰ Executive and Leadership Coaching Concentration Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Academics Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Executive & Leadership Coaching Concentration Enter the Growing Field of Executive Coaching Executive coaching is one of the fastest-growing fields of management consulting in America. SMU's 9-hour concentration in Executive and Leadership Coaching can be taken as a stand alone set of courses leading to a departmental certificate of completion, and provides students with a comprehensive, classroom-based, learning experience that gradually builds on skills and knowledge throughout the course sequence. The coursework provides students with the theoretical grounding and applied practice needed to enter the field of executive coaching as a consultant or internal practitioner. Apply Now Request Information Learn More Join an upcoming information session at the registration link below. Register here Distinctive Features The program offers several distinctive features: The certificate of completion consists of three courses All courses are conducted on weekends to support participation by working professionals and out-of-state students Courses are provided in the areas of theory and practice, professional context, and International Coach Federation competencies Courses Executive and Leadership Coaching Theory and Practice Students are introduced to the theoretical underpinnings of coaching and the influence of each perspective on the evolution of coaching (psychology, adult learning theory, systems theory, communication and social psychology). Students become knowledgeable about how various disciplines have informed coaching processes and applications. Students also learn about the applications of coaching with executives, teams and groups. Essentials of Executive and Leadership Coaching In the Essentials of Executive and Leadership Coaching, students are introduced to the core competencies and skills required to become an effective coach. Coaching competencies and processes are introduced in order to build a broad framework for understanding coaching. Students are provided the opportunity to assess their current strengths and identify their growth areas as part of the developmental process of becoming an executive and leadership coach. Executive and Leadership Coaching in Context Students are introduced to the art of coaching which involves a shift in focus from theory to practice. Students are introduced to coaching approaches for achieving results with clients and the rationale for selecting a specific approach. Students also learn about the contexts in which coaching can be applied (executive and leadership coaching, team coaching, group coaching). They learn that executive and leadership coaching requires more than a “one-size-fits-all” methodology. Prerequisite: Essentials of Executive and Leadership Coaching. Cost In 2020-2021, the tuition for each course is $2,175 or $725 per credit hour. Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management Graduate Studies Master of Arts in Dispute Resolution Graduate Certificate in Dispute Resolution Executive & Leadership Coaching Concentration Our Faculty & Staff Apply Now 2020 Virtual Graduation Celebration VR Simulations Upcoming Events Request info Contact the Dispute Resolution Program Call or Email Us 214-768-4500 disputeresolution@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us SMU East Campus 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 300 Dallas, Texas 75206 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter