Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Dean of Students right arrow down arrow Advisory Council right arrow down arrow Advisory Council Application Staff CARE Team right arrow down arrow Community Resources Temporary Assistance Information & Request Signs of Distress & What You Can Do Emergency Funds right arrow down arrow Bearcat Emergency Fund UC Student Emergency Fund Safe Apartment Communication Response Team BCP and Resource Center (Bearcats Pantry) right arrow down arrow Intake Form Donate Volunteer Available Items/Request Quick Facts Nutrition Info Community Resources Upcoming Drives Ambassador Program Home » Campus Life » Dean of Students During this period of remote instruction, the Dean of Students Office remains open and available to assist you, as always. If you need support and guidance, please contact us at deanofstudents@uc.edu. Emergency Funds Dean of Students The Dean of Students Office serves students and their families as they navigate the collegiate experience through support services and resources committed to students' advocacy, safety, and well-being. Meet the Dean of Students Greetings Bearcats! My name is Dr. Juan R. Guardia, and I serve as the Dean of Students at the University of Cincinnati. As Dean of Students, I serve as a resource to students, parents and families, faculty, and administrators. Our programs and services within the Division of Student Affairs focus on issues impacting students' lives, including the Bearcat Bands, Parent and Family Programs, Resident Education and Development, and Student Conduct and Community Standards. All of these programs enhance students' holistic development academically, socially, and personally. The Dean of Students also provides a timely and appropriate response to various forms of crisis, conflict, and risk to student retention. Some of these resources include the Tuition Refund Application, the Bearcat Pantry, and the Bearcat Career Closet, in addition to the services listed above. I invite you to learn more about the Dean of Students office and the resources offered. Please feel free to contact us at (513) 556-4119 or deanofstudents@uc.edu. Location The Dean of Students is located in the Steger Student Life Center, Suite 630 and available from 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The accessible entrance is on the west side of Steger Student Life Center. Take the ramp between Steger and Swift Hall. At the top of the ramp to the right, enter Steger Student Life Center through the double doors. Our welcome desk is on your left. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top