Skip to main content School of Medicine Use this for to search the site. Search Search this site Search Toggle navigation About Message From the Dean Leadership A Century of Medical Excellence Accreditation Publications Administration Offices UPMC Hospitals and Facilities International Partnerships Admissions Education Research Departments Centers and Institutes COVID-19 Guidance Incoming Student FAQ Ombuds Office Request an Appointment Ombuds Team Policies & Procedures Ombuds Will & Will Not FAQ Index Identifies an Inequity Study: Patients with atrial fibrillation in deprived neighborhoods are less likely to receive anticoagulants for stroke prevention. MORE Researchers Get Major Honor Adrian V. Lee and Steffi Oesterreich recognized among the Susan G. Komen Scholars and Advisors More Silent Epidemic Physician-scientist looking for a better way to treat acute kidney injury to preserve kidney function and protect other organs to avoid the need for dialysis, transplant or death. More Fighting Chronic Kidney Disease A $5 million research collaboration with Bayer aims to close the gaps in care delivery for patients. MORE Adjusting Strategy in TB Treatment Pitt researchers uncover the dynamics of adaptive immunity in tuberculosis. MORE Vampire Legend Department of Pathology PhD candidate seeks a cure for the porphyrias, which include the condition that likely forced Vlad Dracula to hide from sunlight. More Consistently Ranked as a Top Medical School The doctor of medicine program curricular infrastructure combines a lecture-and problem-based curriculum with early and in-depth clinical experiences and an integrated organ systems approach to the pre-clinical sciences. Leadership Our school’s leadership team—helmed by Anantha Shekhar—is committed to supporting a learning environment that positions tomorrow’s physicians to lead lives of impact. Admissions We look for applicants who are leaders and who balance academic achievement with an abiding sense of personal discovery and a deep commitment to serving others. Education We are proud of our long tradition of research excellence and training by world-class faculty members committed to mentoring the next generation of medical professionals. Research Tomorrow's breakthroughs depend directly on today's advances in basic research. We stand among the nation's leading centers of basic and applied biomedical research. Students At the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, we teach and train doctors to handle the realities of a new era in medicine. Information for: Students Residents & Fellows Postdoctoral Scholars & Associates Faculty Alumni & Friends Patient Care Medical Media HS Library Diversity & Inclusion Clinical Trials By the Numbers No. 14 Among Best Medical Schools: Research No. 10 Among Best Medical Schools: Primary Care 2,423 Full-time faculty members 1,119 Full- and part-time students Home News View All News Highly Esteemed A Major First Air Quality and Asthma View All News Events View All Events School of Medicine University of Pittsburgh S530 Alan Magee Scaife Hall 3550 Terrace Street Pittsburgh, PA 15261 upsom@medschool.pitt.edu Resources Apply Contact Us Pitt Home Suggestion Box Health Sciences Portal UPMC Health Sciences Library Find People Medical Alumni Association Pitt+Me Giving Revised 05/31/22Copyright 2022