COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Biological Sciences with Ecological / Environmental / Organismal Emphasis, Major MajorBiological Sciences with Ecological / Environmental / Organismal Emphasis All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Biological Sciences The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in biological sciences—ecological / environmental / organismal emphasis—will expand your knowledge of biology and chemistry in the classroom and through research and internship opportunities. You'll learn from faculty who are active researchers in their field and have access to modern, well-equipped research laboratories—equipping you for professional careers and graduate school. Learn how biological sciences with an ecological / environmental / organismal emphasis is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program WSU group works to save destruction of the iconic palm tree Biological Sciences students can pursue their own research projects. WSU biology students and a professor have created a web site and mobile app to help people identify beetles that are destroying palm trees in Hawaii. They hope to stop the spread of this destructive species. Curriculum A major in biological sciences, leading to the Bachelor of Arts with an ecological / environmental / organismal emphasis, requires 35 credit hours of biological sciences coursework. View the curriculum Careers Graduates of the biological sciences program are frequently employed as technicians in labs involved in basic biological research or applied research. They work in fields such as the physical, engineering and life sciences, education, pharmaceutical manufacturing and scientific consulting. Learn more about careers in this field 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©