Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Office of Student Services Menu Main Nav Office of Student Services Office of Student Services Academic Calendar Back Back Close About Overview Contact Hours Student Checklists Notices & Disclosures June Checklist Registrar Overview Academic Calendar 2022–2023 Academic Calendar 2023–2024 Academic Calendar Registration Calendar Summer 2022 Registration Spring 2023 Registration Summer 2023 Registration Fall 2023 Registration Course Information & Schedule Course Registration Undergraduate Registration Graduate Registration Summer Registration Cross Registration Final Exam Schedule Course Evaluations Enrollment Certification Transcript Requests Name Change Academic Forms & Diploma Information Financial Aid Overview Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Graduate & Law Financial Aid Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid After Receiving Your Award Cost of Attendance International Students Frequently Asked Questions Student Financial Wellness Financial Aid Forms Contact Related Links Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Graduate & Law Cost of Attendance Billing & Student Accounts Overview Billing Tuition & Fees Loan Repayment Medical Insurance Eagle One Card MBTA Passes & Parking Permits Student Employment Overview Job Listings 21–22 Academic Year On-Campus 21–22 Academic Year Off-Campus FWS 2022 Summer On-Campus 2022 Summer Off-Campus FWS Finding a Job On Campus Finding a Job Off Campus Earned Sick Time New Hires Frequently Asked Questions Information for Employers Warning: Job Scams & Fraud Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Close Academic Calendar Directory A to Z Listing Search Student Services Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Financial Aid Undergraduate Financial Aid Policies & Eligibility Undergraduate Financial Aid How Aid Works Applying for Aid Types of Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions Policies & Eligibility Policies & Eligibility Students who demonstrate financial need will qualify for financial aid provided they meet certain eligibility requirements below. These requirements include full-time enrollment in a degree program, satisfactory academic progress toward a degree, and eligible citizen status. Students with demonstrated financial need who live off-campus, while still eligible for financial aid, may see a reduction in their financial aid award as a result of a lower cost of attendance. A student with demonstrated financial need who studies abroad will receive more or less financial aid depending on the program's administering sponsor. Demonstrated financial need is the difference between the cost of attendance and the expected family contribution. Boston College is committed to providing information in a manner that is accessible to all. If you are in need of a printed copy of the material presented on this web page, please contact the Office of Student Services. Contact the Office of Student Services Verification Enrollment Status Satisfactory Academic Progress Eligible Citizen Status Off-Campus Housing Study Abroad Resident Assistants Financial Aid Appeals Verification is a federal process used to confirm the accuracy of the information provided on the FAFSA. If your FAFSA is selected for verification, additional information will be required to complete your financial aid file. Students may be provided with a financial aid award before submitting all the required documentation to complete the verification process. Should the verified financial information differ significantly from the original information provided on your FAFSA and/or CSS Profile forms, there may be a change in your financial aid eligibility. Required Documentation The documentation required for the verification process can vary. Students can confirm what information is needed by checking their online portal which will indicate the information needed to complete your financial aid file. Typically students selected for verification will have to submit the following documents: Incoming Student Federal Verification Form or Undergraduate Financial Aid Application Signed copies of federal/foreign tax returns or IRS Tax Return Transcripts for the student and parent. If the student or parent is not required to file a tax return, a non-filer statement is required along with copies of your W2 forms. The IRS Verification of Non-Filing letter is required from parents of dependent students who did not file a tax return as well as independent students (and spouse, if applicable) who did not file a tax return. Dependent students are not required to submit an IRS Verification of Non-Filing letter. Additional documentation may be required for some to verify: Untaxed Income High School Completion Status Identity/Statement of Educational Purpose IRS Data Retrieval Tool The IRS Data Retrieval Tool (IRS DRT) allows students and parents to electronically transfer their IRS tax return information into the FAFSA. The IRS DRT, if successfully matched, is one method used to complete the FAFSA Verification process. We strongly encourage you to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool during the initial filing of your FAFSA. Families must actively choose to utilize the IRS DRT by clicking "Link to IRS" on the FAFSA. If they choose to do so, they will be transferred to the Internal Revenue Service website. There, the FAFSA Central Processing System (CPS) will conduct a data match with the IRS. In order to enhance the security and privacy of personal data transferred into the FAFSA from the IRS, the IRS DRT will encrypt the student applicant and parent transferred tax data and hide it from view on both the IRS DRT website and on the FAFSA web pages. The words "Transferred from the IRS" will display in the data entry fields throughout the FAFSA form and on the Student Aid Report (SAR). Eligibility You and your parents are eligible to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool if you: Filed your federal tax return with the IRS Have a valid social security number Have a Federal Student Aid ID You and your parents are not eligible to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool if: Your parents are married and filed as "Married Filing Separately" Your parents are married and filed as "Head of Household" You filed an amended tax return You filed a foreign tax return You filed a 1040NR tax return using a Tax Number (TIN) Print IRS Tax Return Transcript If your FAFSA is selected for Verification and you and/or your parents are not eligible or choose not to use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool on your FAFSA, the U.S. Department of Education may need a certified Tax Return Transcript processed by the IRS. Notes: Be sure to request a Tax Return Transcript (DO NOT request a Tax Account Transcript, Record of Account Transcript, or Wage and Income Transcript). Parents who are married but filing separately must submit two separate IRS Tax Return Transcripts. Transcripts are not required for those filing a foreign or Puerto Rican tax return. If you are unable to obtain an IRS tax return transcript, you may submit a signed federal tax return (1040) to fulfill the verification requirement. Online Request for Tax Return Transcript Go to irs.gov/transcript. Select "Get Transcript Online" or "Get Transcript by Mail." Register for an account with the IRS by providing required information to verify your identity. Required information could include your name, SSN, date of birth, mobile phone number with your name on the account, email address, the tax filing status and mailing address from your latest tax return, and your account number from one financial institution (credit card, mortgage, home equity loan, home equity line of credit, or car loan). If you cannot provide ALL of the required information to verify your identity, then you will be unable to use this option and you should complete a paper request by mailing IRS Form 4506-T. See below instructions for "Paper Request for Tax Return Transcript." Select "Higher Education/Student Aid" as your reason for request. Select the tax year for your Tax Return Transcript (i.e., "2019" for academic year 2021–2022). Telephone Request for Tax Return Transcript Call the IRS at 1-800-908-9946 (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.). Follow prompts to enter required information to verify your identity. Required information could include SSN and address (this must match the address already on file with the IRS exactly). If you cannot provide ALL of the required information to verify your identity, then you will be unable to use this option and you should complete a paper request by mailing IRS Form 4506-T. See below instructions for "Paper Request for Tax Return Transcript." Select option to request an IRS Tax Return Transcript, and then enter tax year (i.e., "2019" for academic year 2021–2022). You can expect your IRS Tax Return Transcript to be mailed within 5 to 10 days after the IRS has received your request. The IRS cannot send transcripts requested by telephone directly to a third party. Paper Request for Tax Return Transcript Note: Cross outs or corrections made on this form may cause a rejection by the IRS. Complete Form 4506-T (Request for Transcript of Tax Return). Enter all demographic fields (questions 1–4), enter the Transcript Requested field (question 6), check the box for Return Transcript (box 6a), enter the Year (question 9) by using the ending date of the period requested (ex. "12/31/2019" for a 2019 tax return transcript), sign the bottom of form (including attestation clause, date, and phone number). Review a sample form. Mail or fax the completed IRS Form 4506-T to the appropriate address or fax number provided on page 2. You can expect your IRS Tax Return Transcript to be mailed within 5 to 10 days after the IRS has received your request. IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter If your FAFSA is selected for Verification and you reported you have not filed a federal tax return, you will need to provide an IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter along with copies of your W-2 forms from all employers. An IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter will provide proof from the IRS that there is no record of a filed federal tax return for the year you have requested. An IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter does not provide proof that you were not required to file, only that you did not file. The IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter is required from: Parents of dependent students who did not file a tax return. Independent students (and spouse, if applicable) who did not file a tax return. The IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter can be requested from the IRS in one of three ways: Online Request for Verification of Non-Filing Letter Note: If you have never filed taxes before, this may not be an option. Go to irs.gov/transcript. Select "Get Transcript Online" or "Get Transcript by Mail." Register for an account with the IRS by providing required information to verify your identity. Required information could include your name, SSN, date of birth, mobile phone number with your name on the account, email address, the tax filing status and mailing address from your latest tax return, and your account number from one financial institution (credit card, mortgage, home equity loan, home equity line of credit, or car loan). If you cannot provide ALL of the required information to verify your identity, then you will be unable to use this option and you should complete a paper request by mailing IRS Form 4506-T. See below instructions for "Paper Request for Verification of Non-Filing Letter." Select "Higher Education/Student Aid" as your reason for request. Select the tax year needed for your Verification of Non-Filing Letter (i.e., "2019" for academic year 2021–2022). Telephone Request for Verification of Non-Filing Letter Call the IRS at 1-800-908-9946 (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.). Follow prompts to enter required information to verify your identity. Required information could include SSN and address (this must match the address already on file with the IRS exactly). If you cannot provide ALL of the required information to verify your identity, then you will be unable to use this option and you should complete a paper request by mailing IRS Form 4506-T. See below instructions for "Paper Request for Verification of Non-Filing Letter." Select option to request an IRS Verification of Non-Filing letter, and then enter tax year (i.e., "2019" for academic year 2021–2022). You can expect your Verification of Non-Filing Letter to be mailed within 5 to 10 days after the IRS has received your request. The IRS cannot send transcripts requested by telephone directly to a third party. Paper Request for Verification of Non-Filing Letter Note: Cross outs or corrections made on this form may cause a rejection by the IRS. Complete Form 4506-T (Request for Transcript of Tax Return). Enter all demographic fields (questions 1–4), check the box for Verification of Non-Filing (box 7), enter the Year (question 9) by using the ending date of the period requested (e.g., "12/31/2019" for a 2019 tax return transcript), sign the bottom of form (including attestation clause, date, and phone number). Review a sample form. Mail or fax the completed IRS Form 4506-T to the appropriate address or fax number provided on page 2. You can expect your Verification of Non-Filing Letter to be mailed within 5 to 10 days after the IRS has received your request. If you have questions about the IRS Tax Return Transcript or IRS Verification of Non-Filing Letter process, please review the IRS Get Transcript Frequently Asked Questions or call the IRS Tax Help line for individuals at 800-829-1040. Print Open All Close All Registration Requirements To be considered for Boston College grant funding, students are expected to enroll on a full-time basis (at least 12 credits) in a degree-seeking program. Eligibility for federal aid programs, including Pell grant, Direct loans, and Work-Study requires at least half-time enrollment (at least 6 credits) in a degree seeking program. Summer visitors and other non-matriculating students are generally not eligible for financial aid funds. Withdrawal Returning Federal Funds Students receiving Federal Title IV funds are subject to the following withdrawal/refund process for those funds: the University is required to return to the federal aid programs the amount of aid received that was in excess of the aid "earned" for the time period the student remained enrolled. Students who remain enrolled through at least 60% of the payment period (semester) are considered to have earned 100% of the aid received. If the University is required to return funds to Title IV aid programs, those funds must be returned in the following order: Federal Unsubsidized Direct Loans, Federal Subsidized Direct Loans, Federal Direct PLUS, Federal Pell Grants, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, and Federal TEACH Grants. Returning funds to these programs could result in a balance coming due to the University on the student's account. Returning Boston College Funds If you withdraw after classes have begun, we will also determine how much Boston College will charge you based on the week of your withdrawal. Your charges on your student account will change to reflect the time you were enrolled. For example, if you withdraw during week 1, you will be charged 20% of the semester's tuition. Similarily, if you received Boston College grant funding, you will keep 20% of the semester's grant. Fees are not refundable. Tuition is canceled subject to the following conditions: Notice of withdrawal must be made in writing to the dean of the student's school. The date of receipt of written notice of withdrawal by the Dean's Office determines the amount of tuition canceled. The cancelation schedule applies to students withdrawing voluntarily, as well as to students who are dismissed from the University for academic or disciplinary reasons. Cancelation & Refund Schedule Leaving the University If you leave the university, you must notify appropriate offices according to current policies described in the Boston College catalog, including the Dean of your school and the Office of Student Services. Whether you graduate or take a leave of absence, you must advise your lender(s) and contact the Office of Student Services for exit counseling or materials covering repayment responsibilities. Planning Your Return You will need to plan your return if you take a leave of absence before your graduate. The Office of Student Services has financial aid application materials available for the upcoming academic year beginning in November, with a February 1 filing deadline. Visit the Applying for Aid page for a list of requirements and deadlines. Applying for Aid Additional Semesters of Aid Every student may be eligible to receive financial aid for up to eight academic terms, excluding the summer terms. Students who require additional terms of aid to graduate must write a letter of appeal to the Office of Student Services outlining the circumstances of why you need additional funding. Authority to grant or deny additional terms of aid rests with the Office of Student Services. Federal regulations (Sections 668.16(e).668.32(f) and 668.34) require that schools monitor the academic progress of each applicant for federal financial assistance and that the school certify that the applicant is making satisfactory academic progress toward earning his/her degree. This determination of progress must be made at least once a year and before the financial aid office disburses any federal aid funds for the subsequent semester. At Boston College, students are reviewed annually, at the end of each spring semester, for compliance with the Satisfactory Academic Progress requirements. Students who are aware of learning or other disabilities should immediately contact the Disability Services Office so that appropriate accommodations can be made. A student with a documented disability and functional limitations is still held to the same academic expectations as other students. If the student is registered with the Disability Services Office and receiving appropriate accommodations, the student should be able to maintain satisfactory academic progress for financial aid eligibility purposes. Pursuant to Federal regulations, the following constitutes Boston College’s Financial Aid policy on satisfactory academic progress for undergraduate students. Disability Services Print Open All Close All Maximum Credits/Courses to Earn Degree The maximum time frame cannot exceed 150% of the published length of the program measured in credits/courses attempted with no appeal possible. For example, if you are enrolled in an undergraduate program that requires 120 credits for graduation, the maximum time frame for students in these programs is 180 attempted credits (120 x 1.5 = 180). Students whose programs require more or less than 120 credits for a degree will have a limit set by the 1.5 factor. As expressed in years (examples): Students in programs that are normally expected to complete a degree by the end of four years of full-time study will forfeit their eligibility to participate in federal financial aid programs after six years of full time enrollment (4 x 150% = 6). Withdrawals: Grades of W are counted as courses attempted and count toward the maximum time frame. Incompletes: Grades of I are counted as courses attempted and count toward the maximum time frame. Audited Courses: Students do not earn any academic credits for audited courses taken in the Woods College of Advancing Studies. They do not count in the calculation of "attempted credits." Students can find additional information in the University Catalog: Policies and Procedures. Pass/Fail Courses: These credits do count within the total of attempted and earned credits. Transfer credits accepted for the student's academic program or degree are counted when measuring the maximum time frame to complete the degree or program. While credits may be accepted towards a Boston College degree, grades do not transfer. Visit the University Catalog: Policies and Procedures for additional information concerning how transfer credits are evaluated. Academic Re-admission: Boston College must count all prior credits attempted for determining the eligibility for federal aid programs of students readmitted. Double Majors and/or Minors: Students who receive/attempt to pursue a double major/minor will normally be expected to complete all degree requirements before reaching the maximum attempted credits allowed. Change in Majors: Students who change their majors will normally be expected to complete all degree requirements before the maximum attempted credits allowed. Second Bachelor's Degree: A student who has already been awarded a bachelor's degree may apply for a second degree only if the second degree is different from the first degree. Ordinarily, a second degree at the undergraduate level is discouraged, and a graduate degree is encouraged. Students working towards a second bachelor's degree are no longer eligible for Federal Pell Grants and Federal SEOG Grants. Students are limited in how much they can borrow under the Federal Direct Loan Program. These limits are not increased for students working on a second Bachelor's Degree. Quantitative Standards Definition Students have a limited amount of time to complete their degree requirements. For a student to be considered as progressing normally, the student's ratio of earned credits to scheduled credits (or pace towards degree completion) must be no less than as shown on the following table: When total scheduled credits are: Earned credits must be at least: Less than 25 credits 50% of scheduled credits 25 through 50 credits 55% of scheduled credits 51 through 75 credits 60% of scheduled credits 76 through 100 credits 65% of schedule credits 101 through 125 credits 70% of scheduled credits 126 credits and above 75% of scheduled credits Scheduled credits are those credits for which students were still officially registered at the conclusion of each semester's Add/Drop period. Qualitative Standards: Grade Point Averages During the first four semesters of enrollment, the qualitative standards for making progress will not be primarily monitored by the Office of Student Services, but by the Deans in accordance with the policies of each college. Standards are listed in the current University Catalog: Undergraduate Programs. See policies regarding Satisfactory Academic Progress in each school's section of the catalog. Students who are allowed by their Dean to continue their enrollment of a probationary status will also be put on "Financial Aid" probation and will be expected to meet the same minimum standards outlined by the Dean for continued enrollment and federal aid eligibility. However, in accordance with federal regulations, by the second calendar year of enrollment in a post-secondary educational program, the student must have at least a 1.667 (1.50 in CSOM) cumulative G.P.A. to be considered making satisfactory progress for continued participation in federal aid programs. Students who do not meet this test will be ineligible to participate in federal financial aid programs until this deficiency is corrected. Grade Changes If grade changes occur after the annual SAP review, for most students, grade changes will be factored into the student's SAP calculations at the time of the next formal evaluation. However, students who are receiving aid on an appeal (conditional) basis must resolve all incomplete grades before the Office of Student Services can make a final determination that they meet the satisfactory academic progress guidelines. Students must report any grade changes that impact their aid eligibility directly to the Office of Student Services. Grade changes must be submitted to the Office of Student Services by October 15 for fall semester aid applicants and by March 15 for spring semester aid applicants. Consult the University Catalog: Policies and Procedures for additional policies concerning grade changes and appeals. Procedures Federal regulations require that these standards apply to all students, even to first-time aid applicants who have previously enrolled at Boston College, or to those who have not been formally placed on probation. Financial Aid Probation If the student has not reached the maximum number of scheduled hours and it is determined that the student has fallen below the completion ratio standards for satisfactory progress, the student will be placed on Financial Aid Probation and notified that his/her continued eligibility for federal financial aid assistance is in jeopardy. Students who fail to maintain the required minimum GPA will also be placed on financial aid probation. Students will normally be allowed only one probationary semester during their academic program. Students on financial aid probation will receive a separate letter that will outline the academic requirements the student must meet in order to receive aid for the following semester. If the student on financial aid probation meets the terms of the probation, he/she will be permitted to continue to participate in the federal student aid programs for a subsequent semester. Students who have been placed on probation shall be considered to be making satisfactory academic progress for the purposes of receiving financial aid as long as the student continues to meet the academic requirements outlined in their probationary letter for each semester thereafter. The Office of Student Services will review the records of students who are on financial aid probation at the end of each semester. If the student does not meet the terms of the probation, the student will forfeit eligibility for all federal financial aid programs. Loss of Eligibility A student who has lost eligibility to participate in federal student aid programs for reasons of academic progress can regain that eligibility only by enrolling at Boston College at his/her own expense and demonstrating that he/she is capable of completing a semester without any failures, incompletes, or withdrawals and showing the ability to complete his/her degree requirements in a more regular fashion. The mere passage of time will not ordinarily restore eligibility to a student who has lost eligibility for failure to make satisfactory progress. Students who have been academically excluded from the University but who are subsequently given permission to re-enroll are not automatically eligible to continue to participate in federal, state, or institutional aid programs. Admissions decisions are totally separate from funding decisions. Right to Appeal Students have the right to appeal any decision of ineligibility to continue to receive financial assistance. Appeals must be filed within 30 days of notification that aid eligibility has been lost or 30 days after a semester begins (whichever comes first). An appeal must be made in writing to the Director of Financial Aid. The appeal may not be based upon your need for the assistance or your lack of knowledge that your assistance was in jeopardy. An appeal would normally be based upon some unusual situation or condition that prevented you from passing more of your courses, or that necessitated that you withdraw from classes. Examples of possible situations include documented serious illness, severe injury, or death of a family member. Appeal Form If you do not have grounds for an appeal, or if your appeal is denied, you may still be able to regain your eligibility for future semesters. This is done by enrolling at Boston College at your own expense, without financial assistance, and negotiating a plan with the Office of Student Services in advance for the conditions under which eligibility may be restored. Appeal Approval Conditions Appeals can only be approved if the Financial Aid Appeals Committee determines: that the student will be able to meet the University's satisfactory academic progress after the next payment period; or that the student has agreed to follow an academic plan that, if followed, will ensure that the student can meet the University's satisfactory academic progress guidelines by a specific point in time. If an Appeal is Granted Students whose appeals are granted will receive aid on a conditional basis for one semester. The conditions will be outlined in the letter sent to the student granting the appeal. The Financial Aid Appeals Committee will review the student's record at the end of the semester to determine his/her status for the following semester. Students who fail to meet the conditions outlined in their individualized academic plans during their conditional semester will not be allowed to submit a subsequent appeal. The Office of Student Services gives full financial aid consideration to United States citizens and eligible non-citizens. Eligible non-citizens are: Permanent U.S. residents Holder of an Arrival Departure Record (I-94) for anyone of the following designations: Refugee Asylum Granted Parolee Victim of Human Trafficking Eligible non-citizens must provide documentation of permanent residency or citizenship status. Acceptable forms of documentation include: Resident Alien Card (I-551) Arrival/Departure Record (I-94) with a temporary I-551 stamp that has not expired Conditional Permanent Resident Alien Card (I-551C) T-Visa (T-1, T-2, T-3, etc) Pending U.S. Permanent Residency Status Prospective Students Must document permanent residency by the admission deposit deadline. If you will not be able to document permanent residency status, you are not eligible for financial aid. If granted permanent residency later in the academic year, you will be considered for financial aid at that time. Be sure to submit a complete financial aid application. Continuing Students Must document permanent residency with financial aid application. If documentation comes in after the start of the academic year, you will be considered for financial aid at that time. Students are eligible to receive financial aid if they live off campus. The Expected Family Contribution (EFC) remains the same for the academic year, and aid is adjusted according to the standard off-campus housing Cost of Attendance. The Cost of Attendance is based on a nine-month academic year, so the Summer months are the student's responsibility. Living off campus impacts the awarding of financial aid in that the total Cost of Attendance is lower for a student living off campus. As a result, many students and families experience a decrease in the amount of financial aid awarded in the year the student spends off campus. Based on extensive research performed by Residential Life and Enrollment Management on local cost of living, it is considered less expensive to live off campus than on campus. Living off campus impacts the awarding of financial aid in that the total cost of attendance is lower for a student living off campus. As a result, many students and families experience a decrease in the amount of financial aid awarded in the year the student spends off campus. It is the student’s responsibility to find off-campus housing. This process usually takes place starting in February of each year. For more information, visit bc.edu/reslife. Students may apply for financial aid or alternative financing to help cover the costs of tuition, fees, and off-campus housing costs. All Boston College financial aid funds, as well as any federal or private loans are disbursed to your student account. When you live off campus, your student account is billed for only tuition and fees. All other costs (rent and food) are the responsibility of the student and the family. If your determined financial aid funding exceeds tuition and fees, a credit balance is created. You may use this credit balance to cover rent and food. If you borrow funds to cover the expected family contribution, funds will be disbursed to the student account to cover any outstanding balance. Any credit balance may be refunded to you in the form of a refund check that you may request through My Services at bc.edu/myservices. These funds may be used for all costs associated with living off-campus. Funds will not be available until the start of classes each semester and after all financial aid funds have been disbursed to the student account. There are no advances given to cover these costs, so you must make arrangements ahead of time. Living Off Campus for 2022–2023 The approximate total cost for a student living off campus in 2022–2023 is $78,490. This figure consists of an average billed cost (without financial assistance) of $63,590 for tuition and fees. The remaining $14,900 is an allowance toward books, meals, transportation, and an estimated cost for room and board off-campus. When looking for off-campus housing, it is important to take into consideration the average amount allowed for room/board within the 9-month academic year (September to May) budget. For the 2022–2023 academic year, the amount allowed for off-campus room and board is $11,750. This translates into approximately $1,305 per month for rent, groceries, and utilities. Keep in mind that if you sign a full-year 12-month lease, you are responsible for the costs of the apartment over the summer (June to August). Students studying abroad can use financial aid for their study-abroad semester or year. If you study abroad through a BC-sponsored program, you will be considered for all of the same need-based grants and loans you would be considered for if you were studying at BC. If you study abroad through an external (non-BC) or affiliate program, you will be considered for need-based federal and state aid. Students studying through these programs are not eligible for BC grant funding. If you are studying through an external or affiliate program, you will need to complete a Consortium Agreement. To learn more, visit the Applying for Aid web page. The information below applies to full-time study in a program that will count towards your undergraduate degree at Boston College. A student’s enrollment in a program of study abroad approved for credit by the home institution may be considered enrollment at the home institution for the purpose of applying for assistance under the Title IV, HEOA programs. Can I receive financial aid when I am studying abroad? Students studying abroad can use financial aid for their study abroad semester or year. Students interested in financial aid must complete the BC financial aid application process. Students applying for alternative loans only do not need to complete a financial aid application. I have charges to pay to a school other than BC. Who processes my financial aid? Your financial aid (grants, loans, and alternative loans) is processed by the school from which you are seeking your degree. Although you may have some charges payable to your study abroad institution, your aid, including alternative loans, will be processed through BC. How is my financial aid affected by studying abroad? If you study abroad through a BC-sponsored program, you will be considered for the need-based grants and loans you would be considered for if you were studying at BC. If your study abroad program costs less than a BC semester, your financial aid must be based on this lower cost and your award may be adjusted. If your study abroad program costs more than a BC semester, you are eligible for financial aid up to the level that you would receive if you were at BC for that semester; it is your responsibility to finance any additional cost. Information about alternative loans is available on our website at bc.edu/paymentoptions. If you study abroad through an external (non-BC) or affiliate program, you will be considered for need-based federal and state aid. Students studying through these programs are not eligible for BC grant funding. Your work-study will be canceled for your study abroad semester(s), as work-study cannot be used while abroad. When will my financial aid be adjusted? Student Services receives monthly rosters of students studying abroad for the upcoming semester. Once we receive notice that you have completed your study abroad application with the Office of Global Education (OGE), your financial aid will be adjusted. If you have already received a financial aid award based on being at BC both semesters, your award will be revised when we receive this notification. Your award letter will note if your study abroad semester was factored in to your award. My study abroad costs include expenses that aren’t charged by BC. Are these costs taken into consideration? We realize that you have expenses associated with studying abroad that are not paid directly to BC. When calculating your study abroad cost, we include charges from BC, charges from your study abroad institution (such as tuition, housing, and meal plans), along with additional costs not paid to either institution (such as airfare, off-campus housing, books, and living expenses). Elective “field trips” are not considered for financial aid. If you study through a BC-sponsored program, we will use the total cost as determined by the Office of Global Education. If you participate in an external or affiliate program, your cost will be determined by the information we receive from your study abroad institution on the Consortium Agreement. Do I need to complete a Consortium Agreement? If you are studying through an external or affiliate program, you will need to complete a Consortium Agreement. This is required if you are receiving need-based aid, parent loans, or student alternative loans. Per federal regulation, BC cannot process your study abroad financial aid until we have a completed Consortium Agreement on file. A copy is available online at bc.edu/finaidforms or in the Office of Student Services. The deadlines for this form are as follows: August 10 for fall and full-year study abroad and December 10 for spring study abroad. A section of the Consortium Agreement must be completed by your study abroad institution, so please allow enough time for a representative at that school to complete the form and return it to BC before the deadline. Because BC cannot process aid without this agreement, late Consortium Agreements will cause a delay in the processing of your aid and any applicable refunds. When and how do I obtain the refund on my credit balance? If your financial aid (grants, loans, and alternative loans) for your study abroad semester exceeds what you will be charged by BC, you will have a credit balance available to take as a refund. Please note that your aid will be applied to prior unpaid balances before allowing a refund. Refunds are available when the funds arrive at BC, no earlier than the second day of classes at BC. Generally, loan funds are available after the first few weeks of school if your application materials were completed on time. Some funds, such as Pell and state grants, can take longer to arrive. You can monitor your bill online through your Agora Portal at bc.edu/myservices to see when these funds arrive at BC. Once the funds are applied to your account and BC classes have begun, you can request your refund online through your Agora Portal. My study abroad institution has deposits and bills that are due before my refund will be available. Can I receive an advance on these funds? No. You cannot receive financial aid that has not arrived at BC yet. Application and room deposits must be paid out-of-pocket. If a bill from your study abroad institution is due before your refund will be available, it is your responsibility to work out a payment arrangement with the study abroad school. Some study abroad schools may extend payment deadlines if they know you are waiting for financial aid, but this is entirely up to the school’s discretion. If they are not willing to extend the deadline, you must pay them out-of-pocket and use your credit balance to reimburse yourself when it becomes available. Resident Assistant (RA) benefits are given to all students who become an RA at Boston College. The benefit is the reimbursement of all room, board, and the Health Services fee charged to the RA in an academic year. The total amount given to an individual RA can vary based on the cost of the residence hall in which they reside. How are the RA Benefits paid to me? Each RA is charged room, board, and the Health Services fee on their student account. The exact amount charged is then placed on the system as financial aid for the RA. This “aid” is then credited against the charges on the student account. Most of these adjustments occur in late June of each year. How will RA benefits affect my financial aid? Federal regulations require that these benefits be counted as a resource to meet a student’s financial need. Therefore, the Office of Student Services must incorporate the RA benefits within the financial aid award. We try to do so in a way that will not penalize the student by meeting any unmet federal need and by replacing federal work-study. Depending on the individual’s financial aid award, some Boston College grant may be replaced, but the total overall package will not be reduced due to a student becoming an RA. It is our goal in the Office of Student Services to faithfully award financial aid to all of our RAs who demonstrate financial need. In doing so, we try to recognize the valuable contribution that RAs provide Boston College by striving to preserve the maximum grant funding allowable under federal rules. Financial aid applications require students and parent(s) to provide two year's worth of income information. The purpose of this information is to calculate an expected family contribution (EFC). An EFC is calculated for both the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and CSS Profile. The EFC is used to determine the financial need for a family using the following formula: Cost of Attendance - Expected Family Contribution (EFC) = Financial Need Families may request a secondary review of their financial aid package at any time due to a change in financial circumstances. Information presented in the appeal should be either new information or information that has changed significantly from the initial application materials. Special circumstances include the following: Loss of income due to job termination, decrease in hours One-time income (capital gain or distribution, etc.) Death of parent and/or spouse Major medical expenses not covered by insurance Divorce or separation of parents Catastrophic loss, such as damage or loss from a natural disaster Special Circumstances do not include the following: Student or parent(s) who does not wish to borrow to cover educational expenses Parent(s) refusal to contribute to educational expenses Parent(s) payment of student loans for older sibling Expenses such as credit card debt, wedding expenses, sports, enrichment activities, etc. Initiating the Appeal Process To begin the appeal process, the student should complete this brief survey that will determine if the situation qualifies for a formal appeal. If the appeal situation is something we can consider, the next step would be document collection. Appeal Survey Documentation Requirements Your assigned financial aid counselor will reach out to provide information on the status of any submitted appeal. If the appeal will be pursued, additional documentation will always be required. Types of documentation that may be needed include: Copies of federal tax returns from 2021, 2020, and/or 2019 or other prior tax years Unemployment benefits statement(s) Copies of paystub(s) Balance sheets Death certificates Bank statements Medical bills Once the required documentation has been provided, appeals are reviewed within 10–14 business days by a committee. Additional processing time may be needed if more information is required. At the conclusion of the appeal evaluations, students will be notified of the results. Additional Considerations Pursuing a financial aid appeal is a time intensive process. It requires the submission of additional documentation and does not guarantee an increase in financial aid. It is important to understand that even though you and your family may be experiencing financial hardships, it does not always create financial need. An appeal that does not result in additional assistance does not mean that our office is invalidating your circumstances; we are just limited with our ability to provide additional assistance. Back To Top Back To Top Office of Student Services Lyons Hall 103 Phone: 617-552-3300 or 800-294-0294 studentservices@bc.edu Facebook Twitter Instagram 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College