Skip Navigation Texas A&M University Search Options Web People Search Search MENU Search About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Search Options Web People Search Search Close Search Menu Home About Admissions Academics Athletics Research Student Life Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Visitors Former Students Make a Gift Home Policies & Statements Linking Policy Linking Policy Texas A&M University complies with the State Website Linking and Privacy Policy. Linking to university websites Advance permission is not necessary to link to www.tamu.edu or any Texas A&M University website that links to this policy (collectively, "university websites"). Be aware that university subpages may change or be deleted at any time without notice. Entities and individuals linking to university websites are encouraged to verify link accuracy periodically. Entities and individuals linking to university webpages shall not capture university pages within frames, present university content as its own, or otherwise misrepresent university content. They shall not misinform users about the origin or ownership of university content, or in any way attempt to modify the content and then present it as the content of Texas A&M. Some information on university websites may be protected by trademark and copyright laws and otherwise protected as intellectual property. Protected intellectual property must be used in accordance with state and federal laws and must reflect the proper ownership of the intellectual property. Linking to individual graphics or tables within our pages, which places the downloading burden on our servers, may be considered an inappropriate use of state resources. Any link to Texas A&M websites should be a full forward link that passes the client browser to the appropriate page on the university website without barriers. The "back" button should return the visitor to the original site if the visitor wishes to back out. Links from university websites University webmasters may choose to link to external websites that would provide a service to our visitors. The external website's content must be appropriate to the purposes of Texas A&M. Links will not be approved to commercial sites which charge a fee for products or services online (notices of the availability of publications or notices of conferences that charge a registration fee are not commercial sites and may be considered for linking.) Linking to an external website does not constitute an endorsement of the content, viewpoint, accuracy, opinions, policies, products, services, or accessibility of the site. Any mention of vendors, products, or services is for informational purposes only. University webmasters reserve the right to remove links to external sites if they are inaccurate, inactive, or inappropriate. Texas A&M does not enter into reciprocal link agreements although we provide links to sites that are appropriate to our mission and goals. Our creation of a link to a site does not obligate that site’s owner to provide a link back to Texas A&M University. External websites Upon leaving a university website and linking to an external site, the policies governing the university website no longer apply and users are subject to the external site's policies. Questions and concerns regarding the information or services provided by a linked site must be directed to the entity or individual responsible for that site, rather than to university webmasters. Linking policy contact information For questions and concerns regarding this linking policy, email the University Webmasters Office at webmaster@tamu.edu. About Texas A&M Texas A&M at a Glance Aggie Traditions Colleges & Departments Global Scope Global Partnership Services Education Abroad Admissions Aggiebound Viewbook Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Course Catalogs Cost Calculator Academic Resources Majors Rankings & Recognitions University Libraries Services/Resources Parking & Transportation Housing Dining Employment Diversity & Inclusion Emergency Preparedness Contact Us Texas A&M University 979-845-3211 College Station TX 77843 USA TAMU Facebook TAMU Twitter TAMU Instagram TAMU Snapchat TAMU LinkedIn TAMU Pinterest TAMU Youtube TAMU Reddit Texas A&M at Galveston Texas A&M at Qatar Texas A&M University System Site Policies College Station, TX © Texas A&M University Title IX Reporting Sexual Misconduct Policy Mental Health Resources Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline Notice of Nondiscrimination Course Schedules & Syllabus, Faculty CV Institutional Resumes Accountability CARES Act Guidance and Reporting State of Texas Statewide Search State Link Policy Open Records Accreditation Complaints Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS Back to top