Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Mindfulness Center at Brown Home Research Mindfulness Training MBSR Teacher Recognition Programs Collaboratives News and Ideas People Site Navigation Home Research Mindfulness Training MBSR Teacher Recognition Programs Collaboratives Global Mindfulness Collaborative International Mindfulness Integrity Network Contemplative Studies Partnership News and Ideas People Mindfulness Teacher Training The Mindfulness Center at Brown offers evidence-based mindfulness training for individuals and organizations. Our programs are offered: in-person, locally, nationally, internationally, and live-online. Mindfulness-Based Programs: Mind-Body Health Mindfulness-Based Training Programs The Mindfulness Center at Brown offers evidence-based mindfulness training for individuals and organizations. Our programs are offered: in-person, locally, nationally, internationally, and live-online. Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) Program MBSR is an 8-week evidence based, experiential program designed to provide participants with intensive and systematic training in mindfulness meditation and movement practices, and integrating into one’s daily life what is discovered and learned through the process of participating in the program. First created in 1979, by Jon Kabat-Zinn, Ph.D., MBSR has over 40 years of research that consistently demonstrates positive outcomes associated with increased self-awareness and emotional and attentional regulation. In addition, outcomes highlight statistically significant reductions in symptoms for various physical and behavioral health conditions including anxiety, depression and chronic pain, along with positive changes in risk factors that may lead to more serious chronic ailments. Join us to explore how mindfulness may support you in living life more fully, with greater ease and joy. Read More MBCT - A Mindful Approach to Depression and Anxiety Experiences of recurrent depression and anxiety can leave one feeling exhausted, uncertain about how to move forward or get unstuck, and like life has lost its color. There are evidence based approaches that are effective and empowering to help you break free from patterns that contribute to repeated and prolonged episodes of depression and anxiety. MBCT (Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy) combines training in mindfulness meditation practices with principles from cognitive therapy. The heart of this work lies in becoming acquainted with the modes of mind that often characterize and contribute to mood states while simultaneously learning to develop a new relationship to them. Cultivating mindfulness offers possibilities and potential for living life in new ways; for learning new skills and wholly new ways of working with and befriending your mind. Read More Mindfulness-Based Silent Retreats Attending a silent retreat provides an opportunity to give moment-to-moment attention to mindfulness practice over the course of a number of uninterrupted days, thus deeply exploring awareness, experience, and the intrinsic relationship between them. Such times of dedicated mindfulness practice support deepening and widening into an every moment of our lives. Our retreats are designed to be rigorous and intensive but also nourishing and reflective. This mindfulness meditation retreat will offer silent periods of sitting, walking meditation, and yoga as well times for practice discussions. Each day there will be a talk and systematic meditation instructions on the four foundations of mindfulness that are embedded in lovingkindness. These teachings and practices will emphasize quieting the mind, opening the heart, and developing clarity, wisdom, and compassion; and foster the depth of practice. Read More Teacher Training: Certificate in MBSR Teaching The Mindfulness Center at Brown provides training opportunities for those aspiring to become MBSR teachers, as well as those who already teach MBSR and wish to further their learning. Whether you are beginning the teacher-training pathway in MBSR or looking to refine specific teaching skills, the Mindfulness Center at Brown has options to support your learning. Each step of the formal training process engages a trainee in a variety of domains, including: Developing competencies as an MBSR teacher; Cultivating skills for either the classroom or private practice; Deepening knowledge in the areas of science, ethos, pedagogy, best practices and public health; and Strengthening one’s personal practice through the lens of MBSR. With a commitment to meeting the whole person, our intention is to address individual learning needs and encourage the unique resources and capacities of each person. Learn more about our expanded curricula in the Certificate in MBSR Teacher and about supportive professional continuing education programs offered in partnership with the School of Professional Studies. Read More Professional Training Tailored to Your Organization Mindfulness in the Workplace and Leadership Training One critical foundation for extraordinary leadership, optimal performance, sustainability and well-being is the quality of awareness that allows us to see clearly, understand fully and respond appropriately to whatever arises in our work and life. This is mindfulness. Mindfulness can be strengthened through training and practice, and when the training is rooted in rigorous research and delivered by certified teachers working alongside the researchers, individuals and organizations can trust the credibility and value of their investment. Mindfulness for Healthcare Working in today’s healthcare climate is challenging at best. Administrative burdens, staff shortages, individual patients and communities facing complex conditions and overwhelming schedules can lead to exhaustion, burnout and a turning away from the deep desire to help that often brings individuals to this noble profession. Customized Mindfulness in Healthcare programs are designed to enhance the resilience and well-being of individual healthcare practitioner, treatment teams, organizations and healthcare systems overall. Quality, compassionate and skillful care are natural outcomes when healthcare practitioners are present, engaged and accessible to patients and oneself. Mindfulness for Educators in Schools and Higher Education Committed to addressing the physical and emotional stress inherent in teaching and being a student, we offer unique, comprehensive and mindfulness training to leaders and educators of K-12 schools and in higher education. As educators develop a personal practice, strengthen classroom presence and share mindfulness with their students, social and emotional skills are strengthened, and students experience an improved ability to concentrate and regulate emotions, greater feelings of optimism and empathy, and decreased depressive symptoms. School leaders, educators and other members of the academic community similarly strengthen the resilience, focus and calm presence necessary for thriving in the 21st century classroom. Read More For more information contact us at [email protected] Mindfulness Training MBSR Teacher Recognition Mindfulness Center at Brown Mindfulness Center at Brown Brown University One Davol Square, Second Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9100 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Sign up for our newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top