Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links The Jesuit Institute Menu Main Nav The Jesuit Institute The Jesuit Institute Contact Back Back Close About Overview History of the Jesuit Institute Contact Conferences Overview Amoris Laetitia Toward a Culture of University Ethics Growing Apart Our Common Home International Networking in the Society of Jesus Secularization and the Jesuits Jesuit Survival and Restoration Events Overview Lectures Past Events Programs Overview Interdisciplinary Seminars Visiting Fellows Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Events Lectures Events Lectures Past Events Lectures The Jesuit Institute sponsors a variety of events that address the issues of faith and culture. These events are generally lectures, panels, or conference meetings. These events introduce to the University's academic community a diversity of scholars and their research. The majority of the Jesuit Institute lectures are co-sponsored with other offices and departments of the university. They cover any topic related to faith and culture that promotes the mission of Boston College. There is one annual lecture sponsored by the Institute entitled the "Canisius Lecture." This lecture addresses some issues in theology and is given by a prominent theologian. Gasson Lecture Series Canisius Lecture Gasson Lecture Series The Gasson Chair is held by a distinguished Jesuit scholar in any discipline. Established in 1979, it is the oldest endowed professorship at Boston College. Gerhard Bowering, professor of Islamic Studies at Yale University, held the position during the 2016–17 school year and delivered a series of lectures that were videotaped. Gasson Lecture Series, 2016–17 September 21 Finding Roots in Scripture and Tradition October 12 Seeking the Face of God November 9 Tracing Humanity in Time and Eternity February 8 Observing Prayer and Ritual March 1 Imposing Social Order April 12 Pursuing Jihad and Martyrdom The Canisius Lecture This lecture—sponsored by the Jesuit Institute—addresses various topics in theology and is given by a prominent theologian once during the school year. Past Canisius Lectures "Sustainable Humanity, Sustainable Planet" September 28, 2015 Cardinal Peter Kodwo Appiah Turkson President of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace Archbishop emeritus of Cape Coast (Ghana) "Truth and Diplomacy, A contemporary Reflection" October 1, 2013 Paul R. Gallagher Vatican Diplomat Service Papal Nuncio, Australia "The Life of the Catholic Church in Cuba" April 23, 2012 Jaime Cardinal Ortega Archbishop of Havana, Cuba "What is Like to be a Jesuit Bishop?" April 7, 2011 Terrence Prendergast, S.J. Archbishop of Ottawa "Formative Years: Jesuit Institutions and the Challenge of Faith" March 16, 2010 Timothy P. Broglio Archbishop of the Military Services, U.S.A. "Interreligious Dialogue: A Risk or Opportunity?" April 2, 2009 Jean-Louis Cardinal Tauran President of the Pontifical Council for Interreligious Dialogue Vatican City "The Challenge to Love, The Call to Hope: Global Perspectives on Catholic Social Mission" April 1, 2008 Oscar Rodriguez Cardinal Maradiaga Archbishop of Tegucigalpa, Honduras "The Sacred Liturgy: Revisiting Sacrosanctum Consilium Forty Years After Vatican II" April 17, 2007 Godfried Cardinal Danneels Archbishop of Malines-Brussels. "The Call to Serve in a Divided Society" March 3, 2005 Theodore E. Cardinal McCarrick Archbishop of Washington, D.C. Back To Top Back To Top The Jesuit Institute Faber House 102 College Road Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-8290 james.keenan.2@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College