Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Professional & Liberal Studies Areas of Study Online Resources Community Engagement Connect Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Find the program that's right for you Become a part of CPLS Advising Appointments Contact Us Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home College of Professional & Liberal Studies Resources Student Resources CPLS faculty and staff strive to assist our students with the best degree choices to meet their unique academic and career goals. Our department also provides guidance with a variety of student resources that are integral components to student success. Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Declaration of Major Form Scholarships Academic Advising Course Permits Thematic Studies Senior Experience Minor Application Internships Late/Retroactive Withdrawal File for Graduation Academic Advising Course Permits Late/Retroactive Withdrawal Final Semester Preparation File for Graduation Undergraduate Students Admission to CPLS Undergraduate students admitted to University of Memphis may pursue a degree in the College of Professional and Liberal Studies by completing our Declaration of Major form. To access this form, be sure to use the most current version of Chrome, Firefox, or Safari. Scholarships CPLS offers several scholarships for students meeting the stated requirements. Students may apply for scholarships through Tiger Scholarship Manager. Academic Advising Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Advisors provide guidance with degree plans, course choices, support services, career goals and a variety of other student needs. Course Permits Students who are advised to register for a restricted course must request a permit from the academic department who controls the course. Review instructions on how to request a permit. Thematic Studies Thematic studies focus on significant themes in social, political, and religious history. All CPLS undergraduate students must complete 6-credit hours of thematic studies courses. These courses are offered on campus and online in many interdisciplinary topics. Senior Experience All CPLS undergraduate students completing one of our Professional or Liberal studies programs is required to take UNIV 4995 – Senior Project. Students will assemble a portfolio that represents their collected experience as a CPLS student. Minor Application Students who wish to complete a minor must complete our minor application and get approval from both the graduation analyst of the minor they are seeking as well as the CPLS graduation analyst, Jackie Cole. Internships Undergraduate students should review degree requirements and consult with their assigned academic advisor to determine if an internship is required as part of their degree. Successful internships provide valuable learning experiences related to coursework and areas of study under the supervision of a faculty member and an employer in the community. Late/Retroactive Withdrawal Undergraduate CPLS students considering a late withdrawal must first meet with their college advisor to determine if there is a cause for a retroactive/late withdrawal. Advisors will then determine the student's need and provide them a packet to complete. File for Graduation Undergraduate CPLS students who are within two semesters of graduation should review the required process to file for graduation. All parts must be completed by the posted deadline. Graduate Students Academic Advising Academic Advising is available in-person, by phone and web conference. Advisors provide guidance with degree plans, course choices, support services, career goals and a variety of other student needs. Course Permits Graduate students who are advised to register for a restricted course must complete all parts of our permit request form. Late/Retroactive Withdrawal Graduate CPLS students considering a late withdrawal must first meet with their college advisor to determine if there is a cause for a retroactive/late withdrawal. Advisors will then determine the student's need and provide them a packet to complete. Final Semester Preparation Graduate students who are beginning their final semester of graduation must review the required process to file for graduation. File for Graduation Graduate CPLS students who are within two semesters of graduation should review the required process to file for graduation. All parts must be completed by the posted deadline. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/12/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.