Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Career Prep Get Experience Get Experience Prepare for your future by experiencing life There’s only so much you can learn in the classroom. To get the most out of your IU education, you’ve got to step out into the world and do. IU provides you with plenty of opportunities to put your knowledge to the test—both on campus and off. 3,000+IU Bloomington students study abroad each year 61%of students complete an internship or field experience Broaden your horizons through community service Service state of mind When you volunteer, you gain important skills, meet new people, and get real-world experience. There are dozens of service-oriented, advocacy-based, and philanthropic student organizations at IU. Whether you want to mentor kids, combat food insecurity, or even work with animals, the IU Corps service network can connect you with meaningful service opportunities both on and off campus. Community volunteerism Bloomington is a small city with a big heart—and hundreds of service opportunities. Through Volunteer Central, find all Bloomington Volunteer Network, Center for Rural Engagement, and Student Agile Response Team listings in one convenient spot. There’s a cause for everyone—and every cause needs you. And get a jump start on your career There’s a good reason so many IU students complete at least one internship: they lead to jobs. In 2020, 59 percent of U.S. interns received full-time job offers from their employers. Many degree programs require you to complete at least one internship in order to graduate. But even if yours doesn’t, you should get out there and work. Completing an internship is a great way to see how the things you've learned in the classroom translate to career skills. Plus, you'll earn the valuable, real-world experience you need to make your resume shine.Learn more about internship opportunities at IU Although I didn’t come to IU with a passport, I am leaving with a passport with more than one stamp of a foreign nation.Noelle Gipson, who studied public and nonprofit management Don’t forget to give globe-trotting a try If you want to understand how big the world really is, you’ve got to get out there and explore it. IU offers more than 380 overseas studies opportunities in locations from Paris to Peru—and everywhere between. Many schools and departments within IU offer their own foreign study opportunities. You could even secure an internship in another country!Learn more about overseas study Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University