Center for Student Involvement - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to CSI - Center for Student Involvement Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Center for Student Involvement Home About Us Staff News LeadUH Affirm LGBTQ Ally Leadership Program Catalyst Leadership Institute CoogCareers Empower: Women’s Leadership Program Ignite Leadership Program Lead360 LeadWELL RISE Diversity Leadership Program Source of Strength SOLAR SOLD Blueprint RSO Diversity Institute Pathways ServeUH Volunteering Volunteer Directory Days of Service Constitution Day President's Volunteer Service Award Bingo to Beat Hunger Impact Living Learning Community EPIC Question Wall: Engaging People In Conversation End It Expressive Activity Resources Student Organizations University Sponsored Organizations Registered Student Organizations Organization Registration Event Registration RSO Development RSO Advisor Network Finances Additional Resources University Sponsored Organization Applications Opportunities Resources CSI on Demand Cougar Involvement Ambassadors Digital Sign Posting Policy & Restrictions UH Brand and Student Organizations Campus Programs Leadership & Legacy Awards Campus Leaders Ceremony Pindamonium InfraRED Giving Connect · Discover · Engage Are you looking for an opportunity to get involved on campus and make an impact? Apply today to be a student leader for 2022-2023! Apply Now Your Involvement. Our Mission. The Center for Student Involvement creates an inclusive and accessible environment that provides meaningful and diverse learning and involvement opportunities to impact student success. Students will gain a sense of self and strong leadership skills, while becoming responsible and engaged citizens in their community. Check out our weekly newsletter to stay up-to-date on engagement opportunities, events, and related news! Latest Newsletter Meet CIA The Cougar Involvement Ambassadors are a group of student leaders dedicated to serving as a resource for students that are looking for opportunities to get involved. Services Cougar Involvement Ambassadors maintain the Commons area which includes the Carrel Spaces, the Resource Room, and the Commons Desk Mailboxes. Need to make a banner? Want to design a flyer? We’ve got you covered. Consultations Cougar Involvement Ambassadors offer one-on-one consultations to students looking to get involved, new organization consultations, and workshops for established organizations. Involvement Blasts The Cougar Involvement Ambassadors host specialized organization fairs called Involvement Blasts! To participate, click on the Cougar Involvement Ambassador logo. Your Involvement. Your Way. Get Involved Through Get Involved, students can register their organizations, receive organization recommendations based on interests, and find campus-wide events and programs. Campus Programs The Center for Student Involvement provides ways for students to get connected on campus and be recognized for their involvement and leadership. University Sponsored Organizations The Center for Student Involvement houses 6 programming-based organizations. These organizations receive their funding from student fees and work to enrich the lives of all University of Houston students. They work with different and unique areas of interest. Registered Student Organizations With over 400 registered student organizations at the University of Houston, there is a student organization for everyone. ServeUH CSI assists students in developing the skills necessary to become civically responsible citizens and to take action on social issues that impact their community. LeadUH LeadUH provides an accessible, engaging, and customizable leadership training program for the UH community by highlighting the wealth of academic, professional, and personal development resources across campus. You’re One of a Kind. So Are We. Dr. Tina Powellson Director Katy Kaesebier Associate Director Allyson Yolland Assistant Director Eric Smith Assistant Director Kristine Cross Activities Coordinator Valerie Baez Activities Coordinator Christopher Caldwell Instructional Assistant Merab Omoregie Instructional Assistant David Procter Instructional Assistant Tiara Cottman Instructional Assistant Follow Us on Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Contact Information Center for Student Involvement University Center North 103 University of Houston Houston, TX 77204-3031 Phone: 832.842.6245 Email: csi@uh.edu Office Hours CSI Front Desk Mon – Fri 8:00am – 6:00pm Commons Desk and Carrel Area Mon – Fri 10:00am – 8:00pm University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies