Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home The Office of Sponsored Research The Office of Sponsored Research UWB Research News Center News Faculty Recognition Past Research Programs OR Admin and Fiscal Reports Student Recognition 2019 ISCRM Fellow 2019 Mary Gates Research Scholarships 2018 Mary Gates Research Scholarships 2018 Founders Fellows Recipients Sponsored Awards & Grants 2020-06-srcp-grant-winners 2021 SRCP Award Recipients Events Summer Camps with UW Bothell Husky Highlights Seminar Series Research Resources Your B.I. Legacy Grant Timeline Grant Lifecycle Proposal Development Budget Development Proposal Components Policies Funding Early Careers Fiscal Management Current Workshops SRCP Seed Grant 2022 SRCP Award Recipients Research Centers and Facilities Microfabrication Cleanroom Scanning Electron Microscope Research Videos Campus Council for Research Contact Us Go to Connected Learning Website Office of Sponsored Research Home Page The Office of Sponsored Research Our mission The UW Bothell Office of Sponsored Research provides resources and support for research administration to advance investigators' agendas. Upcoming events Select display (list or summary) Announcements Congratulations to the 2022 SRCP Award Recipients! SRCP 2021-2022 Close-out Reports are due May 31 Congrats to Christine Ye, a Sammamish high school student working with Dr. Joey Key, who won the Top 2022 Regeneron Sceince Talent Search and $250,000! UW Bothell Sponsored Research FY21 Annual Report Published - Feb 18, 2022 Congrats to Dr. Dong Si who published in Nature.com, Nov 17, 2021! Read the article: Structural insights into Ubr1-mediated N-degron polyubiquitination. Behavioral Health program fills educational gap Nov. 5 2021 Husky Highlights are in full swing! Research news Chen receives research, scholarship award Top award to member of UW Bothell research group Existential loneliness and intrinsic hope Students make a big splash researching water quality Critical thinking for lifelong learning Crowdfunding deepens inequities Autism and accessibility From prison to purpose Living Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy Swipe for science Read more research news FY2021 activity through the UW Bothell Office of Sponsored Research COVID-19 Resources and Information Our team at the Office of Sponsored Research wants you to know we are all working full-time and remote to support research applications and funding. We can be contacted by email - view contact page. There are so many research opportunities available, so let us know how we can help! Here are a few important links to check out: UW's Mitigating Impacts to Research Activities Due to COVID-19 - Published by the Seattle Office of Research UW Travel Office - what to do with changed travel plans NSF COVID-19 RAPID Proposals Grant Forward - COVID-19 opportunities - Search for grant funding opportunities related to COVID-19 COVID-19 National Scientist Volunteer Database - Database for researchers to find volunteer opportunities Return to Work/Research Resources Covid-19 Guidance for a Safe Return to In-Person Research Guide for Returning to In-person Research: site facilities and social/physical distancing Husky Highlights Seminar Series Husky Highlights is a seminar series meeting several times a quarter to feature UW Bothell faculty and staff who are making advances in research, scholarship and creative practice. These events are provided virtually and open to the public. Please join us for our next virtual presentations in May 2022. Students, staff, faculty, and community members are all welcomed to join. More information. Past recordings are available from this page. UW Bothell SRCP Seed Grant The UW Bothell SRCP Seed Grant Program is intended to competitively support UW Bothell faculty in all disciplines who are starting new projects or relaunching current projects in new directions that have the potential for internal UW and/or external funding. We hope to continue building the research capacity and extramural support for faculty across all Schools. Learn more. Congratulations to the 2022-2023 SRCP award recipients! Supported by Academic Affairs, this year a total of $222,057 was awarded. UW Bothell Undergraduate Research and Creative Practice Database Faculty and Staff Researchers: Post your research online so students can find you any time of the year. Students can search by keywords to find your unique opportunity they are looking for. Log in with your staff or faculty netID and fill out one form. Students: find a research opportunity here: https://depts.washington.edu/uwbur Student Undergraduate Research Pages can be found at Connected Learning: uwb.edu/ocl/undergraduate-research UW Bothell Centers There is one research center supported by UW Bothell: - The Goodlad Institute for Education Renewal UW Bothell Research Facilities - Microfabrication Cleanroom - Scanning Electron Microscope - UW Bothell Herbarium - Environmental Education & Research Center (EERC) at St. Edward State Park The Power of Mentoring Mentors are some of the most important individuals in our lives. Learn how professors at the University of Washington Bothell have helped students overcome challenges, exceed their goals, and be successful in the classroom. View faculty and staff mentor resources. The AANAPISI program, one of eight federally designated Minority Serving Institution (MSI) programs, was established by Congress in 2007 as part of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act. It was expanded in 2008 under the Higher Education Opportunity Act. The AANAPISI program provides grants and related assistance to AANAPISIs to enable such institutions to improve and expand their capacity to serve Asian Americans and Native American Pacific Islanders and low-income individuals. The University of Washington Bothell has a Predominantly Undergraduate Institutional Membership with the Society of Research Administrators International. With this membership, every staff member has access to a community of peers as well as experts in the field, and discounts on educational programming, career resources and conferences. Contact Sarah Verlinde-Azofeifa for the code and instructions to sign up, severlin@uw.edu. Updated 11/5/2021. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us