Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Support the FCBE Giving Stories Giving Options Advancement FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact UofM Summer 2019 Commencement PreviousNext Take Action Make a Gift to Fogelman College Today! Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Support the FCBE Welcome Thank you for your consideration of an investment in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics. We are honored! It is because of your investments of your dollars and your time that we continue to have a positive impact on our students and our business community. As an alumnus/na or friend of the college you can partner with us to provide an impact in numerous ways: You can invest in the college by making a tax-deductible gift. Your investments support endowed scholarships, graduate assistantships, faculty instruction, building renovations, and professional development, real-world application, internships, and leadership opportunities for our students. You may direct your gift to any area within the Fogelman College. Serve on an advisory board. Your experience is invaluable and can help our various schools within the Fogelman College connect with important businesses and people. Provide internships for our students. The Complete Professional Program through the Avron Fogelman Professional Development Center can help you select the ideal intern for your company. Speak to classes on your career development and business knowledge. Sharing your expertise with students is the most direct way to impact students' career development. Mentor students. Through classroom participation or one-on-one mentoring, our students seek and require your network, influence, and experience. Hire our graduates. With your engagement and gifts we can enrich our college and support our community. Alumni and friends are the difference between a good and great university. For more information or to make a gift, contact: Michele Sides, Sr. Director of Development at 901.678.3068 or michele.sides@memphis.edu Laura Hall, Director of Development at 901.678.3068 or laura.m.hall@memphis.edu And for general inquiries contact gifts@memphis.edu or 901.678.3953. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.