Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts UC sees an uptick in applications from prospective Bearcats VP of admissions says applications up 11% By Cedric Ricks Email CedricEmail Cedric 260-415-8554 December 15, 2021 Share on facebook Share on Twitter Pin Story Print Story Like There is a lot more interest in becoming a Bearcat. Applications from prospective students are up 11% with more than 23,000 requests for admission to UC for the fall 2022 semester. "We are close to breaking our record for applications, and we still have a few more months of accepting requests to go," says Jack Miner, vice provost of enrollment management at the University of Cincinnati. Acceptance of early applications for many colleges and scholarships ended Dec. 1, but some programs continue taking applications until May. Why the uptick? Well, a number of factors are at play. UC is ranked Top 5 in the U.S. for its co-op program and internships; The campus, ranked among the most beautiful by Forbes magazine, has re-opened to in-person learning and visits with COVID-19 safety guidelines in place; And the UC Bearcat football team is doing incredibly well, going undefeated this season and making it to the Cotton Bowl Classic to take on the University of Alabama Dec. 31. "We have been able to have a much more normal recruiting season," says Miner. "We are seeing our largest attendance in years of students coming to campus for campus tours. Our admissions staff is also able to engage with students during school recruitment fairs. So much of this work was virtual during the last year." Miner says students can visit residence halls, meet with academic advisors on campus, try other campus activities and get a peek at Nippert Stadium. The first-ever ESPN GameDay in Cincinnati introduced UC to viewers across the nation and reminded fans closer to home what's in their own backyard. "Locally, prospective students can see what the campus energy is like in contrast to last year when we really didn't have that many students on campus," says Miner. "We can see Nippert Stadium full and enjoy the excitement of GameDay. It has changed the climate of what it feels like to be a Bearcat." News coverage: Local 12 WCPO, Channel 9 Fox19 Featured image of students outside of Tangeman University Center and Main Street by Joe Fuqua/UC Creative + Brand. Become a Bearcat Whether you’re a first-generation student or from a family of Bearcats, UC is proud to support you at every step along your journey. We want to make sure you succeed — and feel right at home. Apply today. Tags Admissions In The News Next Lives Here Academic Excellence Related Stories Meduza: Genocide in Ukraine May 31, 2022 Erin Farrell Rosenberg, a Visiting Scholar with the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights at the University of Cincinnati College of Law, was one of four panelists discussing genocide with the Latvian-based news publication Meduza. Local 12 News: ‘It’s changing my life’: Ten students awarded... May 30, 2022 Benya Coleman, a recent graduate of Hughes STEM High School, spoke with Local 12 News reporter Jenna Cisneros about her award of the Marian Spencer Scholarship to attend the University of Cincinnati this fall. Ohio recognizes UC's efforts to welcome veterans May 27, 2022 The University of Cincinnati this week was among the first universities to be recognized by Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine for its efforts to support students with military backgrounds. Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top