Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Voices and Experiences from the Open Graduate Program Graduate School Skip to Navigation Voices and Experiences from the Open Graduate Program HEAR WHAT PARTICIPANTS HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THIS OPPORTUNITY SUSAN HERRINGER Ph.D. Program: Engineering (Materials Science) Secondary Master’s: Archaeology and the Ancient World IOANA BOGDANA JUCAN Ph.D. Program: Theatre and Performing Arts (TAPS) Secondary Master’s: Philosophy SETH THORN Ph.D. Program: German Studies Secondary Master’s: Computer Music and Multimedia DIANA DUKHANOVA Ph.D. Program: Slavic Studies Secondary Master’s: Religious Studies JIE REN Ph.D. Program: Cognitive Science Secondary Master’s: Biostatistics The program includes regular meetings with program peers and deans. What do you take away from the gatherings? I find my program peers to be an extended support network. Balancing time and commitments between two departments has its difficulties, but being able to share our experiences with each other has been helpful. The gatherings have offered me new perspectives on conducting research across different disciplines. I have found it useful and inspiring to learn about the approaches other students in the program are employing in their projects, some of the challenges they are facing and the solutions they are pursuing. Each meeting involves stretching one's ears to the discourses of other, unfamiliar disciplines. One is often forced to reflect on the premises, which are taken for granted within the usual disciplinary confines, with the unanticipated result that one begins to see the blind spots. The events I’ve attended have always been incredibly positive. In one session I presented my work in progress and received some very interesting and useful feedback. The deans are very supportive of us. They listen to our challenges, share our achievements and help us with all kinds of issues. It is great to know them personally, because they are all awesome people. More about the program. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants