COVID-19 Extension Updates and Resources ... More Information » Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Livestock-Poultry Health Regulatory Services Give Giving to Public Service and Agriculture Support the SC Botanical Garden's new Treehouse Your gift will help make this enchanted place a reality for generations of children visiting the garden. Through giving, donors can create, sustain, and enhance existing programs and new opportunities throughout the state by providing support for research and outreach initiatives. The PSA’s Office for Development provides professional guidance for the public/private partnerships needed to be a Top 20 institution. The office also offers funding assistance for the faculty and staff of the unit. Animal Co-Products Research & Education Center Clemson Experimental Forest SC Botanical Garden Wood Utilization + Design Institute ACREC seeks to advance the science and technology of animal co-products and the rendering process and works to ensure microbial safety of rendered products for animal feeds and consumer protection, promotes environmentally sound practices, develops new market opportunities for the worldwide rendering industry and provides educational opportunities in animal co-product utilization. The Clemson Experimental Forest's 17,500 acres are dedicated to education, research and demonstration in order to better understand and manage forest resources for the benefit of society. These essential resources include clean air, clean water, pleasing aesthetic qualities, abundant wildlife, protection of species and habitat diversity, recreation opportunities, along with commodity products from the forest. The forest is managed strictly for perpetual sustained or improved yield of these products. The Clemson Experimental Forest personnel, equipment, supplies, roads, recreation facilities and maintenance are solely supported by revenue generated by the Forest. The South Carolina Botanical Garden is a 295-acre garden and natural area that is a refuge for life. We exist for enjoyment and education and are available and accessible to all people. Our grounds are open and free-of- charge 365 days a year from sunrise to sunset. Clemson University’s Wood Utilization + Design Institute (WU+D) is a multidisciplinary engine of innovation where foresters, architects, engineers, constructors and building industry stakeholders coalesce to design advancements in wood-based construction materials to compete with steel, concrete and other materials currently used in nonresidential construction. To show your support or for more information, please contact: Tyler Cornwell Director of Development and Unit Lead 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 864-561-9825 tcornwe@clemson.edu Margaret Owens Executive Director of Development 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 864-276-7245 mr6@clemson.edu Kim Arp Director of Development 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 864-506-1488 kimarp@clemson.edu Beth Schneider Associate Director, CAFLS & PSA Programming 120 McGinty Court 101 F Barre Hall 703-869-4844 Bschne4@clemson.edu Jessica Ann Campbell Administrative Coordinator 110 Daniel Drive Clemson, SC 29631 864-656-3824 campbe2@clemson.edu GIVE NOW Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Public Service and Agriculture Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness For Employees Page Update Request