Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Financial Aid Student Work The Harvard University Student Employment Office (SEO) is an important resource for all Harvard students seeking employment during their studies. The SEO hosts a database that includes on and off-campus job listings offering a wide range of work opportunities. Student Employment Office 86 Brattle Street Cambridge, MA 02138 p: 617.495.2585 f: 617.495.8422 Federal Work Study Program This program is a need-based federally funded financial aid program offered to eligible U.S. citizens and permanent residents of the U.S. Depending on their maximum Federal Work study (FWS) award students can reasonably expect to earn up to $5,000 per year through FWS funding. To be eligible for FWS positions students must apply for financial aid and be awarded FWS funds as part of their financial aid package. FWSP employers pay a percentage of a student's wages and the federal government pays the remainder. All student job opportunities are managed through the Harvard University Student Employment Office. This site includes information for both students and employers about the eligibility requirements for participation in the FWS program, along with information about hiring. There are numerous opportunities for FWS positions at the University and off campus. Students frequently work in jobs connected with their research or career goals. Students with FWS Awards seek jobs on their own, students are not placed into FWS jobs. Students generally seek positions once they have arrived on campus but may begin searching for positions through the site during the summer. FWS eligible students complete a referral form for each FWS job. This form is the first step in getting hired to a FWS position, registers the job with the SEO, and enables them to confirm the student's FWS eligibility for the position (based on the amount of the FWS Award and other FWS jobs a student may hold). Students may work more than one job, provided their total earnings through FWS do not exceed the amount of their total FWS award. Each job is given a FWS ceiling set by the SEO; this is the maximum gross amount the student may earn in that position. Students are required to monitor their earnings to be sure they do not exceed their ceilings. Employers and students may wish to download our Federal Work Study Guide (PDF) for more detailed information about the Federal Work Study Program. This guide includes an overview of the program, a reference for employers, and instructions for getting hired on the FWS payroll. HGSE Office of Academic Affairs The Office of Academic Affairs helps appoint Ed.D. students to research assistantships and/or teaching fellowships at HGSE. Students should visit this office at Longfellow G039 or call at 617-495-3957 for more information regarding these work opportunities. HGSE Career Services Office The Career Services Office assists HGSE alumni and students enrolled in degree programs in formulating career plans. The office serves as a resource and information center by offering current job listings, a career resource library, informational handouts, a semi-monthly job bulletin, individual counseling sessions, as well as workshops on career planning and job-search skills. In addition, the Career Services Office invites educational recruiters to campus, provides data on alumni career paths and salaries, coordinates the annual Career Day Programs, and coordinates student and alumni networks. In this section Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Financial Aid Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice