Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University & Student Business Services Staff Directory Fees Calendars Students Parents Campus Card USBS Info/Policies Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Other Student Info eRefund Sign-up Financial Aid Disbursement Book Advance Payment Plan Student Financial Appeals 1098-T Tax Information Tutorials & Videos TN STRONG Act Federal Perkins Loan Program USBS FERPA Consent to Release Student Financial Information Form Take Action TigerXpress Cost of Tuition Estimator Forms Contact Us Follow Us Online twitter Home University & Student Business Services Other Student Info eRefunds (Direct Deposit) eRefunds (Direct Deposit) Students may now sign up online for eRefunds (Direct Deposit) for all Financial Aid Disbursements and USBS account refunds. To set up your eRefunds, follow these steps or watch the Tutorial Video here: Log in to the myMemphis Portal with your username and password. Click on "My Finances" under the Student Pages tab. Click on "Access TigerXpress" in the "Campus Card, Bursar and TigerXpress" channel. This will take you into the TigerXpress system. From here, go to "Electronic Refunds" on the right side of the screen. Follow all instructions and do not forget to "Name" the account at the bottom after entering your account information. You will need to check the box labeled "I Agree" in order to finalize the direct deposit process at the end. NOTE: If your bank information changes, you must update your Payment Profile on TigerXpress. Important information regarding eRefunds: You must enroll in at least the minimum number of credit hours required for your award(s). Be sure that you have signed your promissory note and completed the Entrance Interview online. Contact the Financial Aid Office for additional information. If any action taken by you results in non-acceptance of the transfer by your financial institution, the University assumes no responsibility for processing supplemental financial aid until funds are returned to the University by your financial institution. This is a separate process from payroll direct deposit. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/2/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.