Skip to main content Updates on the campus response to coronavirus (Covid-19) Last Updated: Thursday, August 27th, 2020 at 7:01 PM School of Literature, Media, and Communication Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu School Our Mission Diversity Facilities News and Events Overload and Permits FAQ Timeline & History Humanistic Perspectives in a Technological World Find Us! Programs Degree Programs B.S. Literature, Media, and Communication B.S. Computational Media M.S. Digital Media M.S. in Global Media and Cultures M.S. Human-Computer Interaction Ph.D. Digital Media Writing and Communication Communication Center Minors Master Course List People Administrators Faculty Staff Faculty Emeriti Brittain Fellows Research Centers and Labs Featured Projects LMC @ SMARTech Publications Arts Arts @ Tech Overview Arts in LMC Visual Featured Students Cinema@Tech CoLab DramaTech LMCFilms Poetry @ Tech SciFi @ Tech Prospective Students Faculty Resources Alumni Alumni Overview Resources Events Alumni Profiles Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Humanistic Perspectives in a Technological World Welcome Black Media Studies Minor Approved Read More About the New Minor in Black Media Studies LMC Alumna Nettrice Gaskins is Having a Year Read About Her Work as an Emerging Leader in STEAM ETHICx LMC's own Nassim Parvin is among the lead faculty in the newly established Ethics, Technology, and Human Interaction Center (ETHICx) Undergraduate Studies Explore Our Undergraduate Degree Programs Student Makers How We Connect Academia to the Workplace Graduate Studies Explore Our Graduate Degree Programs Minors Discover Our Available Minors Our Approach Literature, Media, and Communication (LMC) defines new models of intellectual inquiry and practice that bring diverse humanistic perspectives to bear on technological invention and innovation. LMC researches and teaches how humanities shape and are shaped by science and technology. Faculty and students assess and inform technological and scientific change by creating, analyzing, and critiquing a broad range of media forms and cultural practices. View the School of LMC's StrengthsView the IAC's Strengths “The role that LMC plays in the humanistic side of what our students take away from their Tech experience is more important than ever. ” Steven W. McLaughlin, Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs at Georgia Tech Featured Projects Privacy Helper Goat on the Rock Branding Convergence Splash of Citrus Faculty Highlight Yanni Loukissas "Learn to think in terms of data settings—defined by the contexts in which data are made and used—not simply data sets” Staff Highlight Renee Jamieson As the ADGS I see my position as student support. That could mean anything from advising, recruitment, connecting students with internship opportunities, organizing the GRA/GTA hires, and so on. Student Highlight Carter Allen "I was offered an internship with the Urban Media Lab by the incredible Dr. Ayda Melika. I jumped at the opportunity, never thinking I would be working in my prospective industry so early in my college career." Alumni Highlight Dhanusha Subramani "LMC has played an important role in allowing me to explore and gain competency in the humanities and the sciences." Recent News Anupam Wins 2021 Best Digital Media Dissertation In his dissertation, Anupam outlines an approach to help educators design digital games for teaching science and engineering. Ivan Allen College Instructors Named to 2022 CIOS Honor Roll Twenty-three instructors across all six Ivan Allen College schools have been named to the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: … LMC Course Designs Memorial for Tech Tower White Oak The memorial features pieces all made from the white oak: a tree slice, planters, and a laser-engraved epitaph. Sixth Annual Global Media Festival Showcases Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions The events featured three celebrated filmmakers and nine languages across 11 countries. More than 250 people from Atlanta and abroad … LMC Team Publishes Article on Feminist Teaching In the article, the co-authors and collaborators share examples of interdisciplinary work in feminist making and teaching. See More News Upcoming Events Friday November 4 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM DramaTech presents The Diviners 8:00 PM - 10:00 PM Location: Behind the Ferst Center for the Arts A luminous story of religion and magic, faith and doubt, love and grief. Friday April 7 8:00 PM - 10:30 PM DramaTech presents RENT 8:00 PM - 10:30 PM Location: Behind the Ferst Center for the Arts No day but today - the musical sensation comes to DramaTech Friday June 16 8:00 PM - 10:30 PM DramaTech presents Student Directed One Acts 2023 8:00 PM - 10:30 PM Location: Behind the Ferst Center for the Arts DramaTech's students bring you 2 - 3 one act plays See More Events Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter School of Literature, Media, and Communication Skiles Classroom Building 686 Cherry Street Atlanta, GA 30332-0165 Phone: 404-894-2730 Fax: 404-894-1287 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Programs B.S. Computational Media B.S. Literature, Media, and Communication M.S. Digital Media M.S. Human-Computer Interaction M.S. in Global Media and Cultures Ph.D. Digital Media College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology