× Home Blog Browse Topics Archives Authors My Account Login Academic Programs & Faculty Faculty Greater Boston Faculty Research Harvard Negotiation Project Great Negotiator American Secretaries of State Project Students Executive Education Negotiation Programs Mediation Programs One-Day Courses Custom Programs Teaching Materials & Publications Training and Teaching Materials Advanced Materials Search Contact Information The Teaching Negotiation Resource Center Policies Frequently Asked Questions Negotiation Journal Harvard Negotiation Law Review Working Conference on AI, Technology, and Negotiation Free Reports Events Upcoming Events Event Series Event Archives About Welcome! Our Mission Contact Us Executive Committee PON Staff Graduate Research Fellows Site Map FAQ Keyword Index Blog Browse Topics Archives Authors My Account Login Academic Programs & Faculty Faculty Greater Boston Faculty Research Harvard Negotiation Project Great Negotiator American Secretaries of State Project Students Executive Education Negotiation Programs Mediation Programs One-Day Courses Custom Programs Teaching Materials & Publications Training and Teaching Materials Advanced Materials Search Contact Information The Teaching Negotiation Resource Center Policies Frequently Asked Questions Negotiation Journal Harvard Negotiation Law Review Working Conference on AI, Technology, and Negotiation Free Reports Events Upcoming Events Event Series Events Archive About Welcome! Our Mission Contact Us Executive Committee PON Staff Graduate Research Fellows Site Map FAQ Sign In For the latest coronavirus updates for our community, please visit our COVID-19 information page. PON – Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School - https://www.pon.harvard.edu Academic Programs & Faculty Executive Education Teaching Materials & Publications Daily Blog PON Global About Us The Program on Negotiation (PON) is a consortium program of Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Tufts University and serves as an interdisciplinary research center dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution in a range of public and private settings. PON’s mission includes nurturing the next generation of negotiation teachers and scholars, helping students become more effective negotiators, and providing a forum for the discussion of ideas. Founded in 1983 and based at Harvard Law School, PON is a consortium program of Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Tufts University, with scholars and students from numerous fields of study, including law, business, government, psychology, economics, anthropology, the arts, and education. PON activities include conferences, seminars, research projects, publications, a film series, and an annual event honoring a Great Negotiator for singular achievements as a skilled negotiator in complex situations. Each year over a thousand students take PON negotiation courses, and instructors throughout the world depend on PON materials to teach their courses. Insight. Expert Analysis. Tips. Research. Advice. All brought to you from the blog at the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School. The blog examines past and current negotiations from many fields including business, government, education and law. Read the blog daily and you will learn how to improve your skills at the negotiating table. The Program on Negotiation offers a number of courses taught by leading Harvard faculty and experts in the field of negotiation, mediation, and conflict management. The courses range from one-day, three-day, and five-day workshops to semester-length courses. Participants come from around the world from both the for-profit and nonprofit sectors, as well as a wide range of professions, including business, diplomacy, government, the military, law, and education. The diverse participant mix creates a dynamic interchange of perspectives and a network of friends and contacts that often last long after the seminar has ended. The Program on Negotiation publishes the quarterly academic journal, Negotiation Journal. This publication draws on ideas from leading authorities and scholars in the field of negotiation — academics who are the best in their fields. The Program on Negotiation Teaching Negotiation Resource Center offers a wide range of educational materials for university classroom settings and corporate trainings, for mediators and facilitators, and for individuals seeking to enhance their skills and knowledge. Materials include role-play simulations, videos, books, periodicals, and case studies. This new three-day program will take place at designated partner facilities in host countries, and will largely mirror the extremely popular Executive Education program that PON has offered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, for more than 30 years. Academic Programs & Faculty Executive Education Teaching Materials & Publications Daily Blog PON Global About Us Login Email Password Remember Me This setting should only be used on your home or work computer. Lost your password? Create a new password of your choice. × Daily Blog Executive Education Publications Research Faculty Students News & Events Browse Topics Manage Account About the Program on Negotiation Post Archive Keyword Index Free Reports RSS Feed Privacy Policy Harvard Law School Copyright © 2009–2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Copyright © 2022 Negotiation Daily. All rights reserved.