Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Campus Climate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Reporting system How to Report Process FAQ Incidents Resources Policies Climate Survey 2017 Project History and Press Climate Study Documents Climate Study Teams Implementation Efforts New Initiatives FAQ Pre-Survey FAQ Data Process Iowa State University is committed to addressing incidents that impact our campus climate. Your assistance in bringing these incidents to our attention is vital. Your help will enhance our ability to learn about campus climate incidents and provide any needed support and assistance. Campus Climate incidents should be reported as soon as possible after their occurrence. When an individual files a report in person or via online form, the report is sent to the coordinator of the Campus Climate Reporting System (CCRS). From here, the coordinator will inform the members of the CCRS. Offices represented on this team include: Equal Opportunity Diversity and Inclusion Dean of Students Department of Residence Iowa State University Police Department Multicultural Student Affairs Senior Vice President and Provost University Counsel University Human Resources This team approach allows the University to respond quickly to the incident for the safety and well-being of all those involved. The team then makes an initial assessment of the behavior or incident. Generally, the team responds as follows to reports: (1) assessment of impact on broader university community, (2) communication with more specific areas of campus that may be impacted more directly, (3) communication with affected individual(s), and (4) provision of any resources or services to aid impacted parties (e.g., medical care, counseling, assistance with academics, etc.). At the time an individual files a report, they do not have to decide on a desired course of action; this can come at a later time. The University will make every effort to respect the decision of the affected individual, but the University must move forward with cases in which there appears to be a direct threat to any individual or the University as a whole. Affected individuals have access to support resources regardless of the course of action they choose. CCRS Response Flow Chart Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Climate 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 phone Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information