Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of the Arts Main Navigation About Us Show Extended Contact Dean's Message Facilities Visitor Information Students Show Extended Advising (Current Students) Advising and Registration (New Students) Assistant Dean for Student Affairs First Generation College Students Get Involved! Scholarships Student Success Center University Catalogue (2022-2023) Events & Visitor Information Show Extended PERFORMANCES & EXHIBITIONS College of the Arts Events & Activities Calendar Grand Central Art Center Exhibitions Digital Program Booklets BOX OFFICE & VISITOR INFORMATION Clayes Performing Arts Center Box Office Visitor Information Alumni Spotlights & Arts Titans in the News Show Extended Alumni: Share Your Story! Featured Alumni Titan of Tassel Titan of Winds Arts Titans in the News Art Dance Music Theatre Nicholas & Lee Begovich Gallery Grand Central Art Center Support Groups Show Extended Art Alliance Alliance for the Performing Arts/MAMM Music Associates Donate Now Purchase Tickets Get Connected Membership Events brochure newsletter Marcy Arroues Mulville & MAMM The Marcy Arroues Mulville Memorial (MAMM) Foundation was founded on December 13, 2001 in honor of Marcy Arroues Mulville (1911-2001), an empassioned patron of the arts in Orange County. In her lifetime, Mulville established and supported over 26 nonprofit organizations, including Music Associates at California State University, now in its fifth decade of philanthropy. MAMM Foundation continued Mulville's extraordinary legacy of giving in Orange County until 2006 when the organization refocused it's mission, becoming MAMM Alliance for the Performing Arts at California State University, Fullerton. The MAMM Foundation Board of Directors additionally gifted the California State Fullerton Philanthropic Foundation with $100,000 to establish the MAMM Foundation Endowment in perpetuity. Learn more WHY JOIN THE ALLIANCE? Connect with other community members who have a passion for the performing arts Continue a legacy of support for our talented students, unique facilities, and top-quality performing arts programs Complimentary and discounted tickets to a variety of Scool of Music and Department of Theatre & Dance performances throughout the year Invitations to unique, behind-the-scenes events, such as director talks, receptions with students, and masterclasses with visiting artists Volunteer at Alliance events or on its Board of Directors, and a ttend the Annual Meeting Kneeling: Norma Morris, Irene McCormick, Gail Cochran, Verne Wagner Standing: Susan Hallman, Pat Perkins, Judy Atwell, Dave Mickey, MaryLouise Hlavac, Lee Gilbert, Irene Lange, and Julie Virjee ALLIANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS President Verne Wagner 1st VP, Membership & Board Development Judy Atwell, Jean Klinghoffer 2nd VP, Fundraising Joseph Arnold, Susan Hallman 3rd VP, Public Relations Norma Morris 4th VP, Grants & Measurements Lee Gilbert Treasurer MaryLouise Hlavac Corresponding Secretary Irene McCormick Directors Birthe Burnett, Irene Lange, and Lori Szostkiewicz This site is maintained by College of the Arts. Last Published 8/30/21 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact jbussell@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.