Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About Events News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Course Innovation Grant Applications are accepted on a rolling basis for use in the academic year 2022-23. CSREA invites tenured and other long-term faculty whose scholarship focuses on race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the United States and work that connects the U.S. to related transnational contexts, to apply for a Course Innovation Grant for use in AY 2022-23. The Course Innovation Grant is designed to support Brown faculty who are eager to develop, revamp or refocus existing courses to more centrally include or update topics of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity. These discretionary funds are meant for limited experiments or one-time investments that improve individual courses and foreground development and innovation broadly defined, as well as providing the opportunity for intercollegiate collaborative teaching across and between accredited institutions. Funds may be used to support a wide range of experiential learning formats and contexts, hire student researchers, purchase books and other learning supplies, as well as access to modest travel funds. Awardees will be asked to provide a brief summary of their activities at the end of the grant period. eligibility For all members of the Brown University faculty interested in working on issues of race, ethnicity, and/or indigeneity in the U.S. or in U.S. related transnational contexts. the grant Faculty provided with up to $1,000 in books and other learning supplies and up to $3,000 in graduate student research assistance support. Modest funds to support course-related travel are also available where applicable and in accordance with university guidelines. Awarded grants may be approved/awarded to grantees for a smaller budget or an otherwise modified version of the proposed expenses. We cannot guarantee awarded funds to be available beyond the fiscal year for which they were awarded. APPLICATION PROCESS Applicants must complete this application form to be fully considered. Applications will be reviewed by the CSREA Faculty Advisory Board (FAB). Other relevant faculty within or external to Brown may be consulted at the discretion of the FAB. DEADLINE Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Submissions for AY 2022-23 courses are encouraged by Monday, February 28, 2022. Questions? Please contact CSREA Program Coordinator, Maggie Murphy. Application form Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top