Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Division of Ophthalmology Residency Program Residency Program Our Residency Program The core of the Division of Ophthalmology is our residency training program in ophthalmology at Rhode Island Hospital and The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. The first Rhode Island Hospital ophthalmology resident graduated in 1966, and our we are continuing to grow as an academic division. Dr. Salvatore J. Loporchio reviews a fluorescein angiogram with residents at the VA Eye Clinic.Under the current direction of Division Chief Michael E. Migliori, MD, FACS, Residency Program Director Kimberly V. Miller, MD, and Associate Residency Program Director Wendy Chen, MD, PhD, the training program provides a broad educational experience for its residents and medical students and recognizes that the program's success depends as much on the quality of its residents and medical students as it does on the quality of the faculty. The residency is based at Rhode Island Hospital, the principal teaching hospital for the Warren Alpert Medical School at Brown University. Our residents also operate at the Providence VA Medical Center and rotate through the VA Eye Clinic at Eagle Square. The residents are fully integrated into the Lifespan Physician Group (LPG) Ophthalmology practice which serves a globally diverse patient population, and the pathology we treat in our clinic is equally diverse and rich in opportunities for learning. We provide 24-hour eye emergency coverage for the Rhode Island Hospital and Hasbro Children's Hospital emergency department, the 5th busiest ER in the United States. The breadth of experiences, from primary eye care to tertiary level sub-specialty ophthalmologic care, is an invaluable asset for our trainees. We are committed to increasing the diversity of our housestaff and welcome applications from individuals who would bring additional dimensions to the program's research, teaching and clinical missions. Visit the Brown University Minority Housestaff Association. Interview Day: 10 Reasons Why You Should Come to Brown for Ophthalmology Residency by Nitasha Khanna, MD PGY4 EyeSi Surgery SimulatorEyeSi Virtual Surgery Simulator Our program is one of only a handful worldwide that have an EyeSi Virtual surgical simulator. Located at the Providence VA Medical Center Eye Clinic, this state of the art surgery unit has anterior and posterior segment modules that allows residents to enhance their surgical skills. Not only is the simulator available to residents whenever they want to use it, but there is also a guided course each resident participates in bimonthly with supervised guidance using the simulator. Core competencies and goals regarding the course are established for the end of the first two years in preparation for the third year. The Virtual Cataract Surgery Course Manual for Ophthalmology Residents 2020 Edition Contributors: John C. Lin, Alfred A. Paul, Paul B. Greenberg https://doi.org/10.26300/ygj1-xc17 Fellowship Match Results Our 2021-2022 senior residents successfully matched into fellowships, continuing our tradition of placing residents into high quality post-graduate training programs. 2022 Graduates • Cornea and External Disease, Tufts University • Oculofacial Plastic Surgery (ASOPRS), Vanderbilt University • Cornea and External Disease, Bascom Palmer Palm Beach 2021 Graduates • Corneal, Cataract, and Refractive Surgery, Weill Cornell Medicine • Glaucoma, Emory University • Private Practice 2020 Graduates • Cornea, University of Maryland • Vitreoretinal Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern • Vitreoretinal Surgery, University of California Davis 2019 Graduates • Medical Retina, Cleveland Clinic • Vitreoretinal Surgery, Boston University • Glaucoma, Casey Eye Institute 2018 Graduates • Medical Retina, Boston University • Vitreoretinal Surgery, Retina and Vitreous of Texas • Medical Retina, University of Iowa 2017 Graduates • Oculoplastics Moorfields, England, Oculoplastics, Duke University (ASOPRS) • Pediatric Ophthalmology, Wills Eye Hospital • Private Practice 2016 Graduates • Oculoplastics, Vanderbilt University (ASOPRS) • Anterior Segment, Koch Eye • Private Practice • Cornea, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins About Us Faculty Residency Program Mission Statement Program Overview Current Residents Alumni Apply Living in RI Photo Album Research For Medical Students For Patients Giving News/Events Print this Page Share this Page Division of Ophthalmology Brown University Coro Center West One Hoppin Street, Suite 202 Providence, RI 02903 Phone 401-444-4669 Fax 401-444-7076 The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Eye Residency About Our Program Mission Statement How to Apply Contact Us Eye Clinics RI Hospital Clinic VA Eye Clinic Subspecialty Clinics Hospital Partners