Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Student Support Show/Hide Administrator on Call The Student Support Services office manages Brown's Administrator On Call (AOC) system which provides a mechanism for Brown students to seek assistance in emergency situations after business hours. An AOC is able to respond to students, connect them with resources and referrals, consult with colleagues as needed, and gather information for additional follow-up during business hours. The AOC system is available 24-hours a day, 365 days a year and covered by staff in several offices in the Division of Campus Life. In 2018-2019, the AOC system responded to nearly 600 calls. To reach the AOC, call 401.863.3322 and ask to speak to the Administrator-On-Call. The Administrator-On-Call system is intended to ensure the safety of students, ensure that students receive the appropriate support and outreach they need during a crisis, and ensure that appropriate referrals are made to university offices for follow up on the next business day The AOC system is part of a larger system of after hours support available to students. The AOC can help connect students with resources through Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), University Health Services (UHS), and others as needed. However, the system is intended for emergency situations and some issues which may be causing concern for a student are best not able to be managed by the Administrator on Call. For instance, students concerned about academic deadlines or needing help communicating to faculty are encouraged to reach out to their faculty members directly and also connect to a dean in Student Support Services on the next business day. The AOC also receives reports from the Department of Public Safety on incidents which occur on campus and will often proactively reach out to students who have experienced such incidents to help provide support and connect them to resources. Home About Meeting with a Dean Administrator on Call Care Team Concussion Support Course Load Reductions Medical Leave of Absence Parents Emergency Contacts Self Care During Difficult Times Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of Student Support Services Office of Student Support Services Brown University Box 2015 Page-Robinson Hall, 5th Floor 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3145 Fax: 401-863-1999 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat