COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio May 31, 2022 — Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio is squeezing in a summer internship with Tesla in between his spring and fall internship with Delta TechOps. Anllir said the resources available at Wichita State have prepared him to succeed in his real-world career opportunities. NIAR WERX announces MRO program expansion with Erickson Precision Ventures May 25, 2022 — The WERX program at Wichita State University’s National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) and Erickson Precision Ventures have reached an agreement to work cooperatively on modification, maintenance and engineering for various Boeing and Airbus aircraft. Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats May 25, 2022 — Keegan Staats is working at the National Institute for Aviation Research (NIAR) as an operations assistant. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare him prepare for a career in finance. Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis May 23, 2022 — Alia Michaelis is working in several Wichita-area hospital emergency rooms to record patient-physician interactions. This applied-learning opportunity is helping prepare her for a career in medicine. WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program May 18, 2022 — After winning the Eastern College Athletic Conference Championship, the Wichita State Varsity Esports Valorant team qualified for a direct bid to compete in the Collegiate Esports Commissioners Cup, a milestone for WSU's Esports program. Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley May 16, 2022 - Cameron McGinley’s work with machine learning with Dr. Sergio Salinas grew into one of the most rewarding parts of his education at Wichita State. McGinley will attend the University of California, San Diego for a Master of Science in computer science. Cameron is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about his time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Rola Khaleel May 12 - Rola Khaleel enjoyed the clinical experiences in audiology during her time at Wichita State University. She will use those lessons as she continues in her career. Rola is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford May 12, 2022 — Emily Crawford earned her elementary education degree by way of the Teacher Apprentice Program while working full-time and raising five children. Home for digital transformation rising on Innovation Campus May 6, 2022 — The steel columns and beams rising on the east edge of the Innovation Campus will soon provide a physical centerpiece for the ongoing work of digital transformation at Wichita State University. The National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation will occupy the building at 18th Street and Oliver by spring 2023. Meet a Shocker: Nerea Makoli Quiros May 10, 2022 - Nerea Makoli Quiros encourages students to confidently ask for help from professors and classmates. Openness to new people and new experiences, she said, is a valuable part of college.Nerea is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Joshua Watts May 5, 2022 — Joshua Watts came to Wichita State from Oklahoma City because he was impressed with the university’s facilities and amenities. Meet a Shocker: Maria Romero Rodriguez May 3, 2022 — Maria Romero Rodriguez came to Wichita State University from Madrid, Spain to study and compete in the pentathlon and heptathlon for the track and field team. She will graduate in May and compete at Cessna Stadium in the American Athletic Conference Outdoor Championships with her family in attendance. Meet a Shocker: Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga May 3, 2022 — The strength of Wichita State University's engineering program brought Chadrack Kamba Tshimanga to Kansas from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Meet a Shocker: Rija Khan May 5, 2022 — Rija Khan served as Student Body President at Wichita State University and learned leadership skills. She plans on attending law school. Rija is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. Meet a Shocker: Lydia Humphreys May 5, 2022 — Lydia Humphreys is a graduate advisor at ShiftSpace Gallery, a student-run art gallery in downtown Wichita. Her experiences there played an important role in her education and time at Wichita State University. Lydia is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about their time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. 1 2 3 4 5 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©