Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × W. Rochelle Calhoun Vice President for Campus Life Website Office of the Vice President for Campus Life Phone 609-258-3056 Bio W. Rochelle Calhoun has administrative oversight for matters that help to shape the student experience at Princeton, including athletics and campus recreation, career services, health services, religious life, diversity and inclusion, residential life, service and student activities. She began her career in college administration while still a graduate student at Columbia University working with Playwrights Horizon Theatre to coordinate curricular and co-curricular programs for their NYU students. She joined her alma mater, Mount Holyoke College, as an assistant dean of students responsible for working with students of color and cultural organizations. She held several other student affairs positions at Mount Holyoke, including director of diversity and inclusion, associate dean of the college and acting dean of the college, before joining Skidmore College, where she served as dean of students and vice president for student affairs. She came to Princeton in 2015. Currently, Rochelle serves on the McCarter Theatre Center Board of Trustees and The Paul Robeson House Advisory Committee in Princeton, New Jersey. She also serves on the Corporation Visiting Committee for the Division of Student Life at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Previously, Rochelle’s community volunteer services included membership on the board of directors for Home Made Theater, Saratoga Springs New York; Saratoga Springs Sponsor a Scholar; and Planned Parenthood, Saratoga Springs, New York. Rochelle served a two year appointment as the president of the board of directors for Girls, Inc. of Holyoke, Massachusetts. She has served as a parent member of her children’s School Councils; Community Trustee of the local United Way; on the board of directors for the National Conference for Community and Justice Western Massachusetts, and the University of Massachusetts/Amherst Fine Arts Center. Rochelle was elected to the South Hadley, MA School Committee where she served two years. Calhoun received a bachelor’s degree in theater arts and politics from Mount Holyoke and a master of fine arts degree in theater from Columbia. Our Leadership Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice