Department of Economics  - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Economics About People Current Faculty Economics Department Staff and Academic Advisors Ph.D. Program Student Directory Ph.D. Job Candidates 2021-2022 In Memoriam Graduate Program Admissions Just the FAQs Master in Applied Economics Doctorate Courses Fellowships and Scholarships Ph.D. Job Candidates 2021-2022 Ph.D. Placements About Houston Undergraduate Program Degree Plans Courses Undergraduate Advising Scholarships and Undergraduate Research Funding Undergraduate Research Student Organizations Career and Internship Information Resources Seminars and Conferences Ph.D. Alumni Conference Texas Camp Econometrics XXV News and Research News Research Conferences Giving UH Home College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Economics Top Flight Research Read more about the Department Upcoming Seminars Find out various seminars and guest speakers Ph.D. Job Candidates 2021-2022 In the News Chinhui Juhn Wins CLASS Distinguished Faculty Award Kei-Mu Yi Wins the Maekyung-KAEA Economist Award from the Korea-America Economic Association Masters in Applied Economics A one year Master's Degree Program COVID-19 UH Updates Department of Economics Campus Location Science Building and Science & Research 2 Phone: (713) 743-3800 Fax: (713) 743-3798 Mailing address University of Houston Science Building 3581 Cullen Boulevard Suite 230 Houston, TX 77204-5019 About Economics at UH The department of Economics at the University of Houston is made up of an innovative group of scholars who are dedicated to producing top-flight research while training our students in the latest techniques in economic analysis. Learn more University of Houston Economics Ph.D. Alumni Conference August 20-21, 2021 News from Economics Christopher Clarke, Instructional Assistant Professor of Economics, wins a 2021 Media and Moving Images (MMI) award for innovative use of media-related teaching adaptations during UH’s shift to remote online teaching during 2020 and 2021. More… Kei-Mu Yi, M.D. Anderson Professor of Economics, wins the 2020 Maekyung-KAEA Economist Award from the Korea-America Economic Association. More…. The Economics Department virtually hosted the 5th Annual Conference on International Economics co-organized by the Federal Reserve of Dallas, the University of Houston and Banco de Mexico, October 23-23, 2020. Former UH economics graduate student Michael Clark (Ph.D. 2012) and his company’s mortgage indices are now being posted in the FRED database at the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank as the Optimal Blue Mortgage Market Indices (OBMMI). More… Chinhui Juhn, Henry Graham Professor of Economics wins the prestigious CLASS Distinguished Faculty Award in May 2020. More.. Assistant Professor Nathan Canen publishes landmark study on political polarization in one of the discipline’s most prestigious journals, Econometrica. More.. Dietz Vollrath, Professor of Economics and Department chair published a new book, Fully Grown: Why a stagnant economy is a sign of success by the University of Chicago Press in January 2020. More from Dr. Vollrath’s website and blog. Vegard Nygaard’s research on the macroeconomic effects of ageing and healthcare policy is highlighted in a chapter of a new book posted on VoxEU. Elaine Liu's research on the gender gap in risk attitudes is highlighted by the media More… Janet Kohlhase, professor of economics receives the RSAI Fellow Award. More.. Elaine Liu’s research on China’s rural property rights and agricultural productivity is highlighted on VoxChina and VoxDev Gergely Ujhelyi and Andrea Szabo’s research on voter turnout in India is highlighted by the International Growth Center (IGC). The University of Houston (UH) Masters of Arts (M.A.) in Applied Economics ranked 6 th among other applied economics master’s degree programs by The Financial Engineer’s 2015 Master of Economics Rankings and 34 th overall for master’s degrees in economics in the nation. More... Department Programs Undergraduate Masters in Applied Economics Ph.D. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies