COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Kansas Small Business Development Center Section Menu Kansas SBDC Home Business Resource Guide Business in Motion Business Plan Customized Training Grow Train Kansas SBDC at WSU Service Area Start Success Stories Staff Business Transitions Conference Business Resource Expo ____________________ Welcome to the Kansas Small Business Development Center at WSU! We offer confidential, no-cost advising to help you start or grow your business. We also offer over 75 training events each year to support you with all aspects of your work. Our Center is located in the WSU Metropolitan Complex, 5015 E 29th Street North. Contact: (316) 978-3193 or ksbdc@wichita.edu. Hear stories from community entrepreneurs. Join our family of successful Kansas businesses! Advising Assistance We would like to talk with you about your business. Schedule a no-cost, confidential advising session today! If you currently work with an advisor, contact them directly for assistance. If you have not used our services recently and would like to connect with the best advisor for your current needs, please call our main line at 316-978-3193. If you want to start as a new client, click the "request advising" button above. We will review your information and contact you to schedule with your new advisor. Webinars Click for workshop details and registration. Congratulations to our 2021 Small Business Awards winners Sarah Leslie, Mark Buckley, and Geneva Nisley. Pictured at the awards ceremony: Wayne Bell, Wichita District Director, U.S. Small Business Administration Mark Buckley and Geneva Nisly, Owners, Toy Depot, Inc., Existing Business of the Year Sarah Leslie, Owner, Leslie Coffee Co., Emerging Business of the Year Mary Ware, Kansas State Senator Tom Sawyer, Kansas State Representative Frank Choriego, Associate Director, Kansas SBDC at Wichita State University Partners Funded in part through a Cooperative Agreement with the U.S. Small Business Administration. Funded in part by the Kansas Department of Commerce and hosted by Wichita State University. Accredited member of America's Small Business Development Centers NOTICE Participants in Kansas SBDC events and workshops agree to allow the Kansas SBDC staff and official photographers to photograph and record them in the context of the event. Images captured may be used on Kansas SBDC websites, posted on social media, shared with media outlets, and/or used in future print and electronic promotional materials. For questions or concerns, please call 316-978-3193 or email ksbdc@wichita.edu. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©