Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Home » Centers & Initiatives » Institute for Leadership and Social Impact » Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program » Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Menu Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships The Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program in Central and Eastern Europe offers interested students the opportunity to gain insight into global civil society, to learn about the challenges of creating and leading effective and sustainable social enterprises, and to make a positive impact by working closely with a non-profit organization in Budapest, Hungary. The program is led by Dori Pap, Bob Thomas, Nicole Little, and Ken Surdin. The program takes students to Prague, Czech Republic, Vienna, Austria, Bratislava (new location), Slovakia, and Budapest, Hungary. This program introduces students to the concept of “sustainable communities” and is affiliated with Serve-Learn-Sustain. During the twelve-week program (ten weeks abroad), students earn twelve management credits through a combination of lectures, case studies, readings, guest speakers, and direct engagement with a non-profit organization. Participants explore and impact several of the UN sustainable development goals. Through curricular and experiencial offerings, students build their understanding of the realities of social entrepreneurship and the leadership that it takes to develop strong civil societies. The Central and Eastern Europe experience will develop students’ abilities to make a positive contribution to organizations dedicated to creating social value and addressing the needs of society. Whether a student's future plans involve starting or working for a non-profit, a social business, or a for-profit company, this program will provide them with theoretical and hands-on knowledge of the international social sector. We invite you to browse a collection of student internship videos and read the latest article about the program. UN Sustainable Development Goals that we explore and impact: Program Contacts Program Director Dori Pap dori.pap@ilsi.gatech.edu Assistant Director Nicole Little nicole.little@ilsi.gatech.edu Program Professor Dr. Robert "Bob" Thomas robert.thomas@ilsi.gatech.edu Program Professor Ken Surdin ken.surdin@cesimc.gatech.edu Summer 2022 Schedule This Program is following guidance from OIE, USG and the US Department of State. At this time, there is no indication that travel to any of our destinations is impacted and there is no advice recommending changes to our planned programming. ‘Decision by’ date is March 15th (that is the date by which we will make final decisions about the 2022 Summer Schedule). If at any point we need to cancel the program, all deposits made before that time will be refunded. Summer 2022 Itinerary: May 9 - 23: Atlanta – introduction to the social sector through lectures and site visits May 26 - June 3: Prague – lectures by experts and exploring this beautiful city and its culture June 3 - 10: Vienna – site visits to non-profits, museum and castle visits, and sightseeing Bratislava – day trip by train June 10 - July 15: Budapest – coursework, internship, one organized weekend trip, and various cultural events A detailed day-to-day schedule will be shared with participants at the beginning of the program. During the European portion of the program, students will have most weekends free (with the exception of the organized weekend trip to Camp Courage) and the schedule will allow for two long weekends as well. Students may use these long weekends to plan additional trips in the region at their own responsibility and expense. Contact with any questions. Coursework *Graduate students: please contact the program directors to inquire about the option of taking these courses at the graduate level. The Central and Eastern Europe Abroad Program is a 12-hour integrated program composed of four courses: MGT 4803 - Business Fundamentals for Social Entrepreneurs This course can be counted towards the Entrepreneurship Certificate, the General Management ILSI Cluster concentration or the Leadership Minor (Business track). This course is designed to teach students how to apply fundamental business skills in organizations that seek to create social value. Most business courses are focused on creating economic value through for-profit organizations. Business skills are also critical in organizations that are tasked with creating social as well as economic value. The ability of students to apply this knowledge and skills will help them attract and manage the human and financial capital needed for success. Syllabus MGT 4611 – Integrative Management Analysis (internship course) This course can be counted toward the Leadership Minor (Business track), or Entrepreneurship Certificate, or the Leading and Managing Human Capital concentration. For more information about the Leadership Minor click here. Students will be actively engaged in addressing management challenges and opportunities of a non-profit organization in Hungary. In small groups, students will work with the leadership team on projects to enhance the capacity of the non-profit to better serve its constituents. Syllabus MGT 4192 - International Impact Forum The purpose of this course is to expose students to and facilitate a dialogue with, individuals and organizations that have had an impact in the international sector. Through site visits and presentations by guest lecturers, students will learn about the country and the European Union-specific challenges and opportunities which non-profit organizations face in Central and Central, and Eastern Europe. Syllabus This course can be counted toward the Leadership Minor (Business track) MGT 4803 - Leadership Development The purpose of the Leadership Development (LD) course is to enable students to prepare themselves to become leaders of organizations, to exercise leadership, and to embark on paths of personal leadership development. The LD class requires personal curiosity, reflection from students, and personal openness, sharing in class discussions, and in leadership development groups. Credits go toward: BA Majors: as MGT electives or Leading and Managing Human Capital concentration electives All other majors: Leadership Minor*, Entrepreneurship Certificate, or free electives. *submitted for consideration to be included in the minor in spring 2022. Awaiting decision. Fees The 2022 Program Fee is $6,950. Tuition is not included in the Program Fee. For current tuition rates and GT fees that apply to study abroad participants please consult the Georgia Tech Bursar Office webpage or contact the OIE office with any questions. This is the list of expenses that our Program Fee covers: Housing in Prague (hotel), Vienna (hotel), Budapest (apartments) Breakfasts in Prague and Vienna, lunches during the weekdays in Budapest, and a couple of other group meals (i.e. welcome dinners in each city) that will be listed on the schedule Public transportation passes in Prague, Vienna, and Budapest Travel from Prague to Vienna and from Vienna to Budapest All program-related travels (i.e. to site visits, and organized weekend trips) Travel insurance while on the program Organized weekend trip to Camp Courage in Hungary Various organized group activities. Here is the list for the 2019 program*: Prague: sightseeing, tour of castles, scavenger hunt in the city Vienna: sightseeing tour, two museum visits Budapest: sightseeing tour, visit the thermal baths, House of Terror museum, night at the Opera, Jewish district tour *the list of activities might change slightly based on the availability of the various tours. In addition to the Program Fee, students should budget for roundtrip airfare (about $1,800), meals not covered by the program fee (about $1000), and for lodging, if needed, during the Atlanta portion. There are several scholarships available on campus for study abroad. We encourage you to inquire at the Office of International Education about these. Program Fee Payment Schedule: $500 Deposit Fee due at the time of application* First installment of $3,250 due March 18 The final installment of $3,200 is due April 15 * Students receiving financial aid should consult the program staff about their options to extend this deadline if needed. If the program is canceled for unforeseeable reasons outside of our control after March 18, students will recieve a full refund of program fee payments made up to that time. If a student wishes to withdraw from the program for a personal reason, the deposit of $500 will be non-refundable if they withdraw after March 1st, 2022. If a student wishes to withdraw from the program for personal reasons after March 18, 2022, the deposit and the first installment will be nonrefundable. Scholarships All Georgia Tech students have access to scholarships listed on the OIE website. We encourage all of our applicants to consider those opportunities in parallel with the ILSI program-specific scholarships. In order to maximize the number and the amount of support we provide to our students with financial needs, we will announce our scholarship amounts after they have heard from other scholarship sources they have applied to. Please note that for any study abroad the total amount of awards cannot exceed the overall cost of the program. The ILSI offers three types of scholarships for students with financial obstacles, who have a strong desire to participate in the Program, and who demonstrate a deep commitment to creating social value through their work on this program. A number of Early Application Scholarships will be awarded if applications are submitted by November 1, 2021. The Munchak Scholarship supports up to four participants with $1000 each. The Cowan Scholarship is awarded in the amount of $4,000 to one student each year. Applicants should submit a one-page statement of purpose explaining why they believe they would be good candidates for the scholarships offered by ILSI The letter should include what other sources of financial support the student is pursuing, and the amount they hope to receive through the ILSI. In addition, the applicant should provide a recommendation letter from a professor, mentor, or academic advisor. The statement and letter should be emailed to Dori Pap. Students applying for ILSI scholarships have to be enrolled in the program (have their OIE application completed). Scholarship applications will be reviewed on November 1, and if funds are still available, on December 15. Early applications are encouraged. The Tedd Munchak Scholarship An entrepreneur at heart, Tedd Munchak (of Hungarian origins) was the co-founder of the highly successful carpet manufacturer Trend Mills. Munchak’s company grew to be one of the largest carpet manufacturers in the country before it was sold to Champion International in 1969. After the sale of his business, Munchak spent the next twenty years as a “one-man venture capital fund”, investing in a diverse array of businesses ranging from pro sports to snack foods. Munchak claimed to have retired in the late 1990s, but his counsel was sought by many until his death. His mentee and good friend, Georgia Tech alum Don Chapman (IM’61), has endowed a Chair in his name in the Scheller College of Business. Currently, the Tedd Munchak Chair supports innovative endeavors that enhance the human condition and students who demonstrate a commitment to creating social value and a desire to learn about the application of business principles to the social sector. The Joel Cowan Scholarship Georgia Tech alum (IM’58) and long-time Tech supporter. He is still active as a Professor of the Practice for the Scheller College of Business. He founded Georgia's Peachtree City, serving as the town's first mayor from 1959 to 1963. Cowan also has developed such projects as Phipps Plaza, Snapfinger Woods, and Palmetto Dunes. He is a member of the Society of International Business Fellows and the Carter Center's Board of Councilors. Cowan has shifted his focus in recent years from real-estate development to international activities. His focus is on the emerging economies of Central and South Asia, Russia, and China. His nonprofit contributions in these same regions include education and leadership training. He was the Co-Founder of the Central Eurasia Leadership Academy in Istanbul. He was the founding chairman of both the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority and the Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District. Cowan holds a bachelor's degree in industrial management (1958) from Georgia Tech and has served on both the College of Business and Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts advisory boards. He is a trustee emeritus of the Georgia Tech Foundation and was a member of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia from 1990 to 1995. Application Process The program is open to all Georgia Tech and other University System of Georgia students who are in good academic standing. The program is designed for a small group so we encourage students who are truly interested in this program to apply early. The early application deadline is November 1, 2021. We make application decisions in three phases: the week after the early deadline, at the end of the Fall semester in December, and, if space is still available, by the final application deadline of February 15. Please follow these steps for a successful application: Review all the material available on the website to be able to make a well-informed decision about how this program will fit your academic and personal goals. All prospective applicants are required to schedule an in-person meeting with Dori Pap (please email with at least three day/time options for a meeting) before filling out the OIE application. Her office is in the Scheller College of Business, Suite #4153 (the ILSI Suite). Take the main elevators to the 4th floor, as you exit walk straight ahead down the hallway, past the Ray C. Anderson Center and the Technology and Management office. The ILSI will be the next door on your left. Next, fill out the OIE online application form and pay the $500 deposit. Please use the “Eastern Europe Summer Program Deposit (IMAH)” to pay this deposit. Finally, submit a one-page letter (via email to Dori Pap) that addresses the following three subjects: What is your interest in social entrepreneurship (do you have any experience in this field, or what made you interested in learning about it)? What are the areas of social need that are of special interest to you (i.e. environment, education, health, etc.)? Describe your skills (technical or otherwise) that you believe could make a meaningful contribution to a non-profit organization that you will work with. Your application is considered final when all the above steps are completed. Useful Resources Summer 2019 Blog To learn more about what the group did over the summer read through their blog entries. Internship Videos Students are asked to create short videos about their internships. See them here. Photos From The Program An album of recent photos highlighting the Program experience. Alternatively, you can visit our local gallery! More Resources Social entrepreneurship is an exciting and increasingly popular area of study and a revolutionary model for addressing many of the problems that communities, people, and the environment face both locally and globally. To find out more about this topic and the beautiful countries that are part of this program, check out some of the links below or visit the program faculty who will be happy to provide you with more information. What is Social Entrepreneurship The PBS Series What is a Social Entrepreneur - Ashoka Foundation Country info: www.gotohungary.com https://www.lonelyplanet.com/austria/vienna http://www.lonelyplanet.com/czech-republic Budapest – Sites and History https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AKDNHpcPE4 2019 Internship Partners We are proud and honored to work with the following social enterprises in Hungary – they add tremendous value to our students’ learning experience, and we are grateful for their involvement: We would like to have our students serve as interns in your organization. Please contact for more information. Adni Joga (Giving Yoga) Adni Joga is a social enterprise that provides access to the physical and mental benefits of yoga to those who would otherwise not be able to experience calmness through movement and breath. AJ works with an increasing number of vulnerable groups to fulfill their mission of building communities where people are accepting of themselves and of each other. Please visit their Facebook Page to learn more! Video of a student discussing their Adni Joga Internship. Autistic Art (Website) Since 2006, Autistic art has helped support the autistic housing facilities throughout Hungary. Autistic Art organizes art programs for the youth who live in these housing facilities. Through this program, effective therapy is provided for the participants and financial support is generated by selling the art to be used as designs for luxury products such as scarves and chocolate. Video of a student discussing their Autistic Art Internship. Biofilter (Website) Biofilter is one of the first certified Bcorps in Hungary. Their mission is to support the circular economy by providing sustainable environmental solutions to food waste management with a special focus on used cooking oil. Biofilter safely recycles food waste and used cooking oil into biodiesel and biogas diverting millions of tons of food waste from landfills and creating jobs and sustainable products in the process. Please visit their Facebook Page to learn more! Video of a student discussing their Biofilter Internship. Domino Tanoda (Website) Domino Tanodo is an afterschool program for underprivileged kids that operates in Budapest. Their goal is to provide fun, safe, and educational programs that promote positive outcomes for youth in the area. They offer a wide range of activities including hip hop and art classes. Please visit their Facebook Page to learn more! Video of students discussing their Domino Tanoda Internship. From Street to Homes (Website) The purpose of From Street to Home is to enable as many homeless people as possible to move into social rented, sustainable housing in Budapest, Hungary. The association combats homelessness with the Housing First method where they clean up and rent out vacant apartments at a reduced price. In addition to placing participants into homes, they also provide extensive job placement services. Video of a student discussing their From Street to Homes Internship. Habitat for Humanity Hungary (Website) Habitat for Humanity Hungary was established in 1996. In that year former president of the United States Jimmy Carter, and his 500 volunteers, built ten homes within a week in Vác. Following this massive building effort, affiliates were founded in several communities around Hungary. To date, we have served 850 families at ten different locations. About 150 families moved into a new Habitat home, and about 250 families participated in different repair and renovation projects. We also served 450 families with financial education and construction technical assistance. The International Platform for Neurodiversity The International Platform for Neurodiversity (IPN) is a start-up civil society organization in Budapest, Hungary. Neurodiversity is an all-encompassing term for intellectual disabilities. IPN aims to advocate for the inclusion of neurodivergent individuals in all aspects of society. They hope to create a network of neurodivergent self-advocates across the EU. Current self-advocacy networks are often run by third parties such as parents or professionals rather than neurodivergent people themselves. This self-advocacy network differs from already existing organizations by putting neurodivergent individuals in the driver’s seat. The International Platform for Neurodiversity believes that if an organization is to best support the neurodivergent community, it should be operated and managed by neurodivergent people themselves. Video of a student discussing their International Platform for Neurodiversity Internship. Knorr-Bremse (Website) The Knorr-Bremse Group is the world’s leading manufacturer of braking systems and supplier of additional sub-systems for rail and commercial vehicles. For more than 110 years now the company has pioneered the development, production, marketing and servicing of state-of-the-art braking systems. In 2016, Knorr-Bremse reported sales of approximately EUR 5.5 billion and employed some 25,000 people worldwide. Video of students outlining their Knorr-Bremse Internship. Nem Adom Fel Cafee (Facebook) A Nem Adom Fel Café, which translates to “Never Give Up”, is a cafe in Budapest that employs people with disabilities, both physical and mental. The service is unfailingly friendly and provides a great environment for studying, reading, or simply grabbing a quick coffee to-go. Video of a student discussing their Nem Adom Fel Cafe Internship. No Bad Kid (Website) Since 2003, No Bad Kid has been teaching, assisting and caring for children and young people who have been labeled as "problematic" because of their behavior, while paying special attention to working with families and educators. The Foundation currently has three areas of activity: Institutional Development, Direct Work with Children's Groups, and Training and Counseling. The use of experience pedagogy as a tool and the widespread sharing of knowledge are of utmost importance in their work. Please visit their Facebook Page to learn more! Video of a student discussing their No Bad Kid Internship. Roots and Wings Foundation (Website) The aim of Roots and Wings Foundation's work is to initiate profound social change in Hungary by supporting bottom-up initiatives that enhance individual initiative and responsibility and strengthen trust and solidarity in society. One of the main tasks in their work is to create a diverse activist/intellectual community working for community foundations. To do this, Roots and Wings Foundation provides customized and motivating financial, professional and human support, strengthens people-to-people contacts, and provide concrete opportunities for joint work. Video of students discussing their Roots and Wings Foundation Internship. Teach for Hungary Közös Többszörös (Teach For Hungary) is a new startup social enterprise based in Budapest. Their mission is to improve educational opportunities for disadvantaged children in Hungary by recruiting, training, and placing exceptional professionals for two years as full-time fellows in high-need schools. Please visit their Facebook Page to learn more! Video of a student discussing their Teach for Hungary Internship. Academic Partners The success of our program is enhanced by our collaboration with: Cornivus University (Website) Corvinus University of Budapest (CUB) is an independent Hungarian state university specializing in the field of economic sciences. The Faculty of Business Administration (FBA) is the largest among the six CUB faculties and is home to 6,500 students – almost half of the entire CUB student population. Corvinus FBA is the center of education and research in business, economics, finance, management and organization, management sciences and management practice. It provides education at BA/BSc, MA/MSc, postgraduate, MBA and PhD levels in the fields of management, marketing and media, international business, finance and accounting, business economics, business law, information technology, and ‘tourism and hospitality.' The mission of the FBA is to educate responsible business leaders and advance knowledge to promote the progress of global business and society in the Hungarian-speaking world as well as the broader global community. Serve-Learn-Sustain (Website) Serve-Learn-Sustain (SLS) provides students with a multitude of learning and co-curricular opportunities designed to help them combine their academic and career interests with their desire to improve the human condition. The result? Georgia Tech students will help build healthier, more sustainable communities where people and nature thrive, in Georgia, the United States, and around the globe. And more Georgia Tech grads will pursue careers and lives filled with meaning. Previous Partners We are proud and honored to have worked with the following social enterprises in Hungary – they add tremendous value to our students’ learning experience, and we are grateful for their involvement: We would like to have our students serve as interns in your organization. Please contact for more information. Alternate Consulting Hungary (LinkedIn) Alternate CSR Consulting is a micro-consultancy formed to help companies and their managers achieve corporate sustainability. Their understanding of CSR (corporate social responsibility) is based on the concept of sustainable development: the art of taking stakeholder views and expectations into consideration during business decisions, resulting in win-win solutions. They inform companies of the ways in which their financial reporting can positively impact the environment and the company itself. Video of a student discussing their ACH Internship. Bator Tabor (Website) Established in 2001, Bátor Tábor offers complex therapeutic recreation programs for children with cancer, diabetes, JRA or hemophilia and for their families. Yearly, over 700 campers participate in programs that they otherwise might miss out on due to their illnesses. Be it rowing, horseback riding, archery, arts & crafts, dancing, music, sports, acting or high-ropes courses, all programs are meant to provide a feeling of success, which positively influences the kids’ self-esteem and recovery process. Video of a student discussing their Bator Tabor Internship. CEEweb for Biodiversity (Website) Founded in 1994 (under the name of Central and East European Working Group for the Enhancement of Biodiversity), the mission of CEEweb for Biodiversity is the conservation of biodiversity in Central and Central and Eastern Europe through the promotion of sustainable development. CEEweb works through advocacy by influencing governmental decision-making, capacity building, networking and awareness raising. It targets its members, local, national and international decision-makers, NGOs and NGO networks, companies, and the scientific community. Video of a student discussing their CEEweb Internship. Center for Independent Journalism The Center for Independent Journalism (CIJ) is a non-profit and non-political organization with the aim of promoting ethical, fact-based journalism and independent media in Hungary. Video of students discussing their CIJ Internship. Global Growers Network (Website) The mission of Global Growers Network (GG) is to create opportunities in sustainable agriculture in Georgia. GG grew out of the tremendous demand among international farmers, many who came to Atlanta as refugees of war, to reconnect to their agricultural heritage in their new home. GG connects local families to land, education, and markets in order to build healthier communities and strengthen our local economy Matyo Design (Website) Matyo Design is a social enterprise that seeks to preserve Hungarian folk tradition, specifically the use of the floral embroidery motifs characteristic of a rural area of Hungary called Matyo. They do this by employing local, skilled women to stitch the embroidery onto modern apparel in order to simultaneously fill the market need for fashionable, usable souvenirs. Video of students discussing their Matyo Internship. NESsT (Website) NESsT works to solve critical social problems in emerging market countries by developing and supporting social enterprises that strengthen civil society organizations' financial sustainability and maximize their social impact. NESsT achieves its mission by combining the tools and strategies of business entrepreneurship with the mission and values of nonprofit entrepreneurship to support the development of social enterprises in emerging democracies worldwide. Okoszolgalat EcoService (Website) Okoszolgalat is the first of its kind in Hungary. They are an eco-consultant whose mission is to provide positive examples, advice, practical ideas, and professional help to as many people as possible with the hope that they will live a rational, efficient, environmentally conscious lifestyle. Their Green Corner (Zoldzug) store provides consumers with green household products, and healthy and wholesome food items. Video of students discussing their Okoszolgalat Internship. World Business Council for Sustainable Development Hungary (Website) The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is an organization of forward-thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. They aim to lead in the support of companies looking to add true-value business solutions and create the conditions where more sustainable companies will succeed. WBCSD Hungary was formed in May 2005, an initiative involving Hungarian and multinational companies engaged in or committed to sustainability. Video of students discussing their WBC Hungary Internship. Student Blogs Image Gallery Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures