Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Office of Diversity and Inclusion Menu Search for: Home Diversity at Harvard Chan School Our Team About ODI Staff EDI Fellows Community Messages Our Strategy Framework for Change Equity, Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging (EDIB) Campus Climate Survey Our Diversity Committee Dean’s Advisory Committee for Diversity and Inclusion Calendar of Events Upcoming Recorded Events and Videos Programs & Initiatives Donald Hopkins Predoctoral Scholars Program Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Facilitator Program Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Fellowship Program Health Equity and Leadership Conference Lunch ‘n’ Learn Program for Staff of Color and Allies Yerby Diversity Lecture in Public Health Yerby Fellowship Program Summer & Pathway Programs Summer Programs at Harvard Chan School Resources & Training Harvard Chan School Resources University-Wide Resources Community Resources Getting Involved On-Campus Office Hours Get in touch Diversity at Harvard Chan School Inclusive Excellence Vision for Harvard Chan School Inclusive Excellence Vision Statement Through a bold and intentional commitment, the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health aspires to be an inclusive community that harnesses a critical consciousness in order to shape a healthier world. With the understanding of structural racism and other forms of oppression as an urgent and global public health crisis, we will continue building an anti-oppressive foundation for public health practice and education. Through leading scientific rigor, academic excellence, and a workplace and community culture of equity and belonging, we will catalyze a diverse group of leaders essential to our transformation and evolution towards a new global paradigm that advances health equity and justice as a human right. Statement of Commitment This vision for equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging will guide our work and our collaborations at the Harvard Chan School. As a community, we aspire to actualize the goals reflected in our diversity strategic plan, Foundations for Sustainable Progress & Transformation: An Inclusive Excellence Strategic Plan for the Harvard Chan School. Therefore, we commit to engaging with our community and partners in the following ways: Striving Forward Courageously We will promote opportunities for all community members to engage in critical self-reflection, accountability, growth, and active learning encompassing anti-racism and anti-oppression awareness, knowledge, and skills to break down barriers of structural racism and oppression. We commit to fostering and empowering community members with the courage to embark on a lifelong responsibility to achieve diversity, inclusion, and belonging in personal and professional endeavors across our global community. Actively Fostering a Culture of Belonging in the Workplace We commit to understanding contemporary injustice in the context of its historical origins, which include legacies of indigenous exploitation, slavery, gender discrimination, xenophobia, and colonialism. We actively denounce all forms of oppression and discrimination and the harms perpetuated by such practices at individual, institutional, and structural levels. Committing to Excellence in Our Scientific and Academic Pursuits We will cultivate an environment where students from all backgrounds and identities are valued, affirmed, and supported in their educational and scholarly? pursuits. We commit to championing equity in our pedagogical and research practices that will increase opportunities for inclusive scholarship, thought leadership, and public health practice in order to address racism and marginalization as global public health imperatives. Message from Leadership “Harvard Chan School must make diversity, inclusion, and belonging one of its highest institutional priorities. As a school of public health, it is imperative that we confront head-on the systemic costs of racism and its corrosive effects on our community members.” — Michelle A. Williams, Dean of the Faculty Inclusive Excellence Strategic Plan Our diversity plan entitled Foundations for Sustainable Progress and Transformation: An Inclusive Excellence Strategic Plan for Harvard Chan School is driven by our mission to promote equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging within our community. The goal of this plan is to establish the foundations that will position diversity and inclusive excellence as central to the core functions and experiences at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Diversity Strategic Plan PDF Diversity Strategic Implementation Plan PDF Message from Leadership “The ongoing pursuit of an anti-oppressive culture within our institution is grounded in our ability to critically understand our environment and make changes throughout our institution on multiple levels. This means identifying and moving forward with policies, practices, and individual behaviors that are anti-oppressive and anti-racist at their core.” — Amarildo “Lilu” Barbosa, Chief Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Officer Annual Report Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health is committed to the ongoing assessment of our climate and progress on identified goals, objectives, and action items. To learn more about our recent efforts to advance inclusive excellence priorities, you can explore our Inclusive Excellence Annual Reports along with quantitative data on representation and diversity within our community. Inclusive Excellence Annual Report: 2021 PDF Featured Events & Resources Get involved with diversity programs and initiatives taking place at Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health during the year. For more details, visit our Office of Diversity and Inclusion, and please share your thoughts with us by emailing odi@hsph.harvard.edu. Visit the ODI events calendar News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College