Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Sociology MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Sociology MA Apply Request More Info Sociology MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Sociology Receive training in sociological theory, statistics and research methods with a Master of Arts in Sociology in the College of Liberal Arts at Temple University. The 31-credit graduate program prepares students for research careers, social services careers and PhD programs by supporting the development of valuable skills in data analysis, fieldwork, statistics and research methods. In this program, you’ll gain a deeper understanding of the ways in which sociological theories and research help answer questions about the relationship between the individual human experience and the institutions of a society. You’ll explore topics like gender, nationality, sexuality and race, among others, and you’ll learn how to ask and answer questions about the causes and potential remedies of some social problems. You can tailor your program to suit your individual academic and professional interests, with the option to choose from a number of specialized areas, including the following. Gender and sexuality Immigration and globalization Medical sociology Race and ethnicity Urban sociology The interdisciplinary nature of the program encourages students to participate in seminars in other areas of social science such as anthropology, criminal justice, urban studies, history, political science, psychology and more. As part of the Sociology Department, you’ll find yourself among a close community of scholars who are passionate about social change. Small class sizes allow for collaborative work with faculty and fellow scholars, and Temple’s location in Philadelphia provides the professional opportunities that only an urban university can offer. Students leave the program prepared for careers in social services and academic research and instruction, as well as nonprofit, market and government research. Those interested in pursuing a doctoral degree program will also have a strong foundation in the field from which to continue their studies and research. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students in the Sociology MA program have three years to complete the program requirements, on a part- or full-time basis. Courses are offered at Temple’s Main Campus. The master’s curriculum combines theory, inquiry and elective courses, and has no culmination requirements aside from successfully completing coursework. The following courses are required. Classical Social Theory or Contemporary Sociological Theory Inferential and Multivariate Statistics Logic of Inquiry Qualitative Data Analysis Qualitative Methods Learn more about the required courses for Sociology MA program. Related Graduate Degrees Anthropology PhD Applied Sociology PSM Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Political Science MA Political Science PhD Sociology PhD Urban Bioethics MA* / Sociology PhD *Lewis Katz School of Medicine Related Graduate Certificates Geographic Information Systems Neuroscience Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact With questions regarding the Sociology MA, contact the following staff member. Jessica Brennan is an administrator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-7577 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Sociology Department. Dustin Kidd is the chair of the Sociology Department. Email: dkidd@temple.edu Josh Klugman is the graduate chair of the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1452 Email: klugman@temple.edu Catherine Staples is a coordinator in the Sociology Department. Phone: 215-204-1494 Email: cstaples@temple.edu Dual-Degree Programs Dual degree programs allow students interested in specializing in more than one area of sociology to pursue two graduate degrees. The following dual degree programs are available to graduate students in the Sociology master's and doctoral degree programs. Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology MA Urban Bioethics MA and Sociology PhD Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Sociology MA coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. The Sociology Graduate Student Association represents and advocates for the collective interests of sociology graduate students, working to optimize the environment in which students develop professionally and personally. The association provides professional development workshops, social opportunities and graduate student advocacy. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-SOC-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Sociology MA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info