COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Computer Science, Minor MinorComputer Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing A minor in computer science from Wichita State is a valuable addition to virtually any major and can give you an edge with potential employers in a wide range of work settings—as well as an advantage in graduate studies. Learn how computer science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the College of Engineering, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Collaborative project helps local kids with disabilities As an computer science student, you have the opportunity to work hands-on in your industry while also making a difference in children’s lives through GoBabyGo! The collaborative program involves students who modify off-the-shelf toy ride-on cars for children with disabilities. “It allows me to engage my mind. In the end you’ve done something to help someone less-fortunate than yourself,” said computer engineering major Brandon Nece. Learn more about GoBaby Go! Curriculum The minor consists of 12 credit hours and includes the following courses: Introduction to Programming Data Structures Object-Oriented Programming One 400-level-or-higher elective View the curriculum Careers WSU’s vast industry connections, and work-based learning for every major, gives computer science students the chance to grow their professional network, gain practical experience, earn a paycheck—and open doors to their dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Computer Science (Major) Information Technology and Management Information Systems Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Applied Computing 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©