Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Wireless charging of electric cars Posted on April 28, 2021 By College of Engineering, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] KHURRAM AFRIDI: Road transportation consumes about 23% of the total energy in the US, and it constitutes to about the same percentage in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. So in terms of impact, there's a potential of reducing the greenhouse gas emissions by 22%, which was quite large. What we've been working on is a way in which we can charge the electric vehicle while it is moving on the roadway. And that way, one, we certainly can reduce the amount of batteries we need to get whatever range we want. But also, we can have indefinite range. Because if we have charging ability on the road, then the vehicle can keep moving and doesn't need to either stop or doesn't need to have a really large battery to go a long range. It also saves time, because now you don't have to stop to charge. So you would, in practice, have a charging lane, where you'd have these charging pads on a repeated basis. And as the vehicle goes over one, it'll get charged, and then it goes over the next, and gets charged again. When I started looking at this approach, people had already started to work on magnetic field-based systems. In fact, you've probably seen these for your cell phone, for example. What we've been working on is the underlying technology. To get the full benefit, this technology has to be deployed. In the 1950s and '60s, when the interstates were built, that was a similar sort of infrastructure development. But interestingly, this is the right time to do it, because the infrastructure in the US is already aging, both at the roadway level, as well as the grid level. And this is an opportunity where the new infrastructure can be developed, taking into account the new technologies that are available today and really make it ready for the next 50 to 100 years. [MUSIC PLAYING] Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Cornell is pioneering an innovative approach for the wireless charging of electric vehicles, forklifts and other mobile machines, while they remain in motion. More About engineering electrical engineering electric cars wireless charging energy transportation sustainability civil infrastructure What to watch next 1:47 MyPlaylist Biodiesel Tractor 2:04 MyPlaylist Max Zhang helps sustainable communities grow greener 45:37 MyPlaylist Ken Hover: The state of America's bridges surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×