Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Engineering a Better World BC welcomes its inaugural class of engineering students. By University Communications Summer 2021 print mail Boston College will welcome engineering students among its incoming freshmen for the first time in its 158-year history—the culmination of a strategic initiative to launch an engineering department in the Morrissey College of Arts & Sciences that will offer a bachelor of science degree in Human-Centered Engineering. The future engineers are an impressive group of 31 students from 19 states who chose to be a part of BC’s inaugural engineering class because of its focus on Human-Centered Engineering, which prepares students to solve complex problems that address critical human needs. The new major will integrate BC’s core liberal arts focus with a rigorous engineering curriculum that will emphasize experiential learning and application-based course offerings, giving students opportunities to work in collaborative teams and across disciplines to address pressing issues in the areas of the environment, health, and energy. Among the inaugural class, 40 percent of the enrolled engineering students are male and 60 percent female. Five are Gabelli Presidential Scholars. The average SAT scores of the engineering cohort is 1505; the average ACT is 35. A total of 31 percent are AHANA and international students. "Our inaugural class of Human-Centered Engineers are academically impressive, co-curricularly multifaceted, scientifically curious, and eager to use their engineering degrees from Boston College to positively impact the human condition,” said Director of Undergraduate Admission Grant Gosselin. “We look forward to watching all they will accomplish during the next four years and beyond.” Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College