Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Medicine The College of Medicine and the Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences are located at the UCF Health Sciences Campus at Lake Nona. The medical school is an integral part of a new medical city where future doctors will train in close proximity to world-class partners. med.ucf.edu Thanks to $6.5 million in community donations, the UCF College of Medicine became the first medical school in U.S. history to provide full scholarships to an entire class. The college is a research-intensive medical school that is unique nationally in that it includes almost 3,000 undergraduate majors and graduate students in the biomedical sciences. UCF M.D. students score in the top quartile nationally in academics based on the United States Medical Licensing Step 1 and 2 Exams of basic science and clinical knowledge. The college is one of only a few in the nation that includes a mandatory two-year research module for all M.D. students, the Focused Inquiry and Research Experience. On the National Board of Medical Examiners Subject Exams, UCF students scored above the national average on every subject tested: pediatrics, OB/GYN, neurology, psychiatry, surgery and medicine. In 2016, the College of Medicine’s residency match rate of 98.8% was higher than the national average of 93.9%. Search Degrees There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Medicine has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Masters Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Doctor of Medicine (MD) Biomedical Sciences (PhD) Biomedical Sciences (MS) Biomedical Sciences (BS) Biotechnology (BS) Medical Laboratory Sciences (BS) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Medicine News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus UCF Med School’s Historic Milestone — 10th Graduating Class UCF’s medical school has now graduated 956 doctors and has gained a national reputation for its excellence, innovation and pioneering spirit as it helps build… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Medical Grad Putting Service at Forefront in Medicine As part of the UCF College of Medicine’s 10th graduating class, Michael Chiang ’20MS is the first Knight to earn a dual degree in medicine and… Anatomy Lab of Dreams A College of Medicine professor designed this ultimate facility so students can learn with state-of-the-art technology. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida