Skip to main content Restrict my search to Police Department Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University of Houston Police Department About UHPD General Information History of UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Become a Police Officer Clery Campus Security Authority Am I a CSA? My Responsibility Get More Info Make a Report FAQs APPLY ONLINE Records & Reports Report a Crime Daily Crime Log Annual Security and Fire Safety Report File a Complaint Give a Compliment Hazard Report Safety & Security Staying Safe Crime Prevention Crime Prevention Services How You Can Prevent Crime Crime Prevention Tips Operation ID Vehicle Accidents Duty to Give Info and Render Aid Crash Involving Damage to a Vehicle Striking an Unattended Vehicle Striking a Fixture or Landscaping Immediate Reporting Police Investigation Resources Sensitive Crimes Violent Incidents Sexual Assault Sex Offender Registry Domestic Violence Hate Crimes Harassment Identity Theft Active Shooter Active Shooter Defined Avoid Lockdown & Deny Alert & Notify Defend & Counter Police Intervention Resources Bomb Threats Explosions Shelter In Place Office Security Community Services Security Escort Blue Light Emergency Phones Camera Network Lost and Found Bike Registration Special Events Money Transfers Policies & Training Campus Carry Policy FAQs Secure Storage Process Senate Bill 4 Racial Profiling Police In-Service Training Civil Protests Contact UHPD UH Home Police Department About UHPD UHPD Strategic Vision Police Department About UHPD History Become a UHPD Police Officer Campus Security Authority FAQ APPLY ONLINE UHPD Strategic Vision Records and Reports Safety & Security Community Services Policies & Training Contact UHPD Contact UHPD 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 (713) 743-3333 or 911 from a campus phone non-emergency email police@uh.edu UHPD Strategic Vision The University of Houston Police Department is comprised of a group of well-trained, dedicated professionals. Our ultimate goal is to provide excellent police and security services to the UH community. The UHPD Strategic Vision (pdf) is a blueprint for providing such services and outlines three goals which will provide us with clear direction for fiscal year 2021 through fiscal year 2025. Each goal is supported by strategies necessary to pursue and obtain each goal, and milestones will indicate whether a goal was obtained. This strategic vision does not cover every departmental need but instead focuses on priorities. Our Strategic Vision is not meant to be static; it is certainly malleable and adjustable. Our social, professional, and physical environments can quickly change, and UHPD must have the ability to adjust to such changes. The strategic vision is designed with flexibility in mind. At the same time, it sets a foundation with consideration to best practices to guide the objectives and actions of the University of Houston Police Department. The strategic vision was developed employing considerations promulgated in the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing Report, which identifies and employs the highest level of accountability in today’s policing strategies. We also employ the guidelines and best practices ordered by the International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators – the accreditation entity for colleges and universities. Rest assured that we are committed to keeping our community safe. UHPD Strategic Vision (pdf) 4051 Wheeler Ave. Houston, TX 77204-6191 UH Emergency Information Call UHPD: 713-743-3333 Campus Map For Emergencies Dial 911 from a campus phone Non-Emergency email: police@uh.edu Security Escorts Lost and Found Bicycle Registration ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies