Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA NotificationRelease of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Registrar Student Records TranscriptsPlus FAQ TranscriptsPlus Information TranscriptsPlus is our electronic transcript online ordering service that allows you to request official University of Memphis (UofM) transcripts online and gives you the option of having them delivered electronically, sent via USPS, FedEx-ed with a valid FedEx account number. (For a list of general transcript FAQs not specific to TranscriptsPlus, refer to Transcripts and Grades FAQ.) General Information/Features UofM has partnered with CredentialsSolutions to provide a safe, secure, and efficient manner of ordering and delivering electronic transcripts. Any current or former student can request their UofM transcript online. A certified pdf transcript may be sent to any recipient you choose. However, you must confirm that the recipient has an email address and will consider an electronic transcript to be official. Your electronic transcript is delivered in an encrypted .pdf format to a secure website for the recipient to access. The transcript ordering process requires that you provide an email address for the intended recipient who will receive an email notification that your transcript is ready for pick up at the specific URL named in the email notification. TranscriptsPlus has been designed to work with all major browsers, but it is recommended that you use the current browser release. Why am I being asked to complete a FERPA release form? (Former Student) Since you no longer have, or have never had, an active myMemphis portal account, your identity cannot be validated through the portal. FERPA regulations prevent UofM from releasing your educational records to any third party without your written consent. Thus, you must complete and submit the release form. But completing the form is a one-time requirement; you will not have to complete it for subsequent requests. Costs/Payment A $2.85 non-refundable service fee is charged for each transcript requested. If you request that a hard copy of your transcript be delivered by FedEx, additional charges apply. The service fee for TranscriptsPlus is charged when transcripts are ordered. No refunds will be issued. TranscriptsPlus accepts credit or debit payments through all major credit cards—Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover. Notifications/Delivery Upon submitting an order through TranscriptsPlus, emails will be sent to you confirming that: (1) your order has been submitted, (2) that your transcript has been sent, and (3) that your transcript has been received by the recipient. You may check on the status of your transcript order by returning to the TranscriptsPlus portlet and clicking on the product logo or, if you are a former student, by revisiting the TranscriptsPlus website. Once your order is submitted, it must be reviewed and processed by the Registrar's Office. Processing times may vary based on the number of orders received daily, but normal processing time is 1–3 business days. If there are no problems with the request, the electronically delivered transcript will be delivered minutes after it is processed. If you requested that your transcript be sent electronically, contact the receiver. If you requested that your transcript be sent by USPS First Class mail, please allow sufficient time for delivery. If you requested that your transcript be sent by an express delivery service, use your tracking number to determine the delivery status and direct inquiries/complaints to the express delivery service. Your UofM ID number is required to order transcripts but your Social Security Number may be used as an alternative. If you are an international student without a social security number and do not know your UofM ID number, contact the Registrar’s Office at 901.678.3927 for guidance. Check the status of your request. If the UofM Registrar has not processed your request yet, then contact the Registrar's Office with regard to changing the information. Be prepared to supply information from your TranscriptsPlus receipt. If the order has been processed, then you will have to make another request; you will be charged a new processing fee. You may upload as many as 5 attachments when making your transcript request. You must upload the files during the same session in which you make your request. The attachments will be included with the transcript when delivered electronically or by mail. You have the option to order online but pick up in person. Standard processing time is 1–3 business days but electronic transcripts can be delivered immediately. TranscriptsPlus provides the option of delivery by FedEx, so if you have a valid FedEx account, you may select the FedEx delivery option. If you use some other courier service, you will need to contact the Registrar at 901.678.3927 to arrange for special delivery options. FedEx is the only courier delivery option available within TranscriptsPlus. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 12/16/19 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.