Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Us Advising Prospective Students People Contact Us Advising Information for Engineering Students Students interested in pursuing an engineering major begin in the first-year General Engineering program. This provides students an opportunity to explore various engineering fields while getting a sound academic preparation for engineering study. After exploring majors and completing introductory requirements, students can declare their intended major. All new engineering students, including transfer students, are admitted into the General Engineering program. Meet the Team↓ Schedule Appointment↓ Curriculum Details↓ General Engineering Essentials Core Courses + CH 1010 - General Chemistry (4) ENGL 1030 - Composition and Rhetoric (3) ENGR 1020 - Engineering Disciples and Skills* (2) ENGR 1410 - Programming and Problem Solving** (3) MATH 1060 - Calculus of One Variable I* (4) PHYS 1220 - Physics with Calculus I (3) * Alternative courses may be required by a department or satisfy the requirement. Please review your major or consult an advisor. ** CHE 1300 option for Chemical Engineering - MATH 1080 - Calculus of One Variable II (4) Industrial Engineering requirement only - Must earn a C or higher in all GE core courses. Declare an Engineering Major + The minimum cumulative grade-point average is 2.00 unless otherwise stated by the major. Some majors specify a higher minimum grade-point average or additional requirements. Bioengineering 3.0 Civil 2.6 Mechanical 2.6 All others* - Please view the department website of the intended major for qualifications. Upon completion of the core courses and requirements of the intended engineering degree program, engineering students can then initiate a Change of Academic Program request through iROAR. Students admitted into an engineering degree program will follow the curriculum in effect at the time of admission into General Engineering unless otherwise approved by the specific department. Change Major to General Engineering + Enrolled students who wish to change from a non-engineering major into any engineering major must first change their major to General Engineering. Students cannot change directly into a degree-granting engineering major. Requirements to obtain approval to change their major into General Engineering: Make an Explore General Engineering appointment in CU Navigate to meet with GE advisor Complete the following courses with a grade of C or better: MATH 1060 (or both MATH 1040 and MATH 1070) CH 1010 ENGR 1020 Have a cumulative GPA of 2.00 or higher Meet the Advising Team All new engineering students are assigned to a professional academic advisor in our Advising Center. These caring individuals will work individually with students to develop academic, personal, and career goals. In addition to helping select classes each term, students can schedule an appointment with an advisor throughout the year. Topics include such things as how to get involved, study abroad, and addressing difficulties with classes. The Advising Team is located in Holtzendorff Hall M-Level. The General Engineering Advising Center’s hours are Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. – 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. The best way to get in contact with your Academic Advisor is through email. Melinda Finkle Director phone: (864) 656-9862 mjfinkl@clemson.edu Deanna Milligan Transfer Coordinator phone: (864) 656-1262 dmillig@clemson.edu Stephanie O'Brien Bridge Coordinator phone: (864) 656-3088 obrien4@clemson.edu Khristy Parham First-Year Orientation Coordinator phone: (864) 656-8995 khristp@clemson.edu Brock Stephan Outreach and Communication Coordinator phone: (864) 656-4096 jbsteph@clemson.edu Preparing for Preregistration Advising Pre-registration advising typically begins in October and February. Currently enrolled General Engineering students will receive an email from their academic advisor at least 6 weeks prior to registration informing them to schedule an advising appointment. Students must have a pre-registration appointment in order to register for courses. Step 1 Review Requirements To check your progress toward a degree, please use the tool, Degree Works. Degree Works IMPORTANT: Please complete all pre-advising forms requested by the advisor. Step 2 Schedule an Appointment Look for an email from your advisor on how to schedule your pre-advising appointment. Bridge students have advising opportunities throughout the semester at both Tri-County and Clemson. Additional Appointment Services The General Engineering Advising Center advisors are here to meet with students throughout their time in General Engineering. All students are required to meet with their advisors at least once a semester for pre-registration advising. Outside of pre-registration advising, there are a variety of other appointments students can make through CU Navigate. These additional appointment reasons include: Explore General Engineering Forgiving a Course General Advising ROTC Form Completion Credits Earned From Another School Schedule on the Go To keep everything organized, download the app Navigate Student. You will be able to see upcoming deadlines and events, view career options, sync class schedules, plus schedule an appointment with an advisor. Selecting a Major Curriculum worksheets comprise a list of courses required for a particular program or major. The worksheets are broken down into academic years and semesters. This is a general guide to support students on the track towards degree completion. Click on the Degree Program Overview to view an informational PDF about the major; select the links under Curriculum to view coursework by program. The Program Department column will allow you to explore each department's site. Degree Program Overview Curriculum Program Department Bioengineering Bioelectrical Biomaterials Bioengineering Biosystems Engineering Biosystems Bioprocess Biosystems Ecological Environmental Engineering & Earth Sciences Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Biomolecular Chemical Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering Civil Engineering Civil Civil Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Electrical & Computer Engineering Electrical Engineering Electrical Electrical & Computer Engineering Environmental Engineering Environmental Environmental Engineering & Earth Sciences Industrial Engineering Industrial IE Computing Emphasis Industrial Engineering Materials Science and Engineering Materials Science Materials Science & Engineering Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Mechanical Engineering Events and Academic Opportunities Multiple opportunities are available to learn about engineering majors and careers. Attend one of our events, classes, or take on a project with a major focus to delve deeper into what makes each engineering discipline unique. Meet the Majors At our annual fall event, meet department representatives and hear students talk about their experiences in each program. This event provides students with the opportunity to learn more about the different majors within CECAS. Students will meet department representatives, as well as senior students and ambassadors. Upper-level students will talk about their experiences and how to navigate through the program. Major Discovery Seminar + Engineering 1000 This one-credit introduction to the engineering majors seminar occurs in the Fall and Spring semesters. You will learn information about the engineering profession, best student practices, and potential career paths. Invited presenters and faculty will provide lectures and demonstrations. Pass/No Pass only. Creative Inquiry Classes + Creative Inquiry (CI) is the imaginative combination of engaged learning, cross-disciplinary interactions, and undergraduate research unique to Clemson. Team-based investigations are led by faculty mentors and typically span a year or more. Students take on problems that spring from their own curiosity, from a professor's challenge, or the world's pressing needs around them. Oyster Reef Restoration BE 4990 - 003 | Project 1 The amount of oyster reefs on the coast of South Carolina has decreased at a high rate due to overharvesting and development. As reefs play a large part in the growth of oyster larvae, this project looks at ways to help nature replenish habitat by designing structures for oyster spat attachment. Clemson Engineers for Developing Countries (CEDC) ECAS 1990 - 201 | Project 3 Teams of students from across campus work together on long-term projects that benefit the Central Plateau of Haiti, Guatemala, and South Carolina. Projects are intended to solve real-world problems working with community partners and span the complete design process. Clemson ENGAGE CE 1990 - 050 | This CI project brings industry professionals, faculty, staff, and students together to improve the living conditions of community partners in developing countries. Students work with faculty and industry team members on the technical aspects of the projects, simultaneously networking and learning real-world skills that apply to their future careers. Please view the General Engineering list of CI Projects and follow the instructions to sign up for one of those courses. For a full list of all current projects at the University, visit Creative Inquiry Projects. Fall 2022 CI Projects Workshops and Events + Welcome to Engineering This workshop introduces students to resources available to them as current General Engineering (GE) students. Students will also have a chance to hear from a panel of upper-level students about life as a Clemson student, life as an engineering student, and learn tips/advice on navigating through their first year as engineering students! How to Be Successful as an Engineering Student Learn about study strategies and skills specific to engineering and STEM courses! There will be a representative from the Academic Success Center there and a student panel to allow you to ask questions. Developing Your Mindset: Continuing Your Growth as an Engineering Student This workshop will help you learn more about the growth mindset and how it can help you as a student at Clemson! This is a great workshop right before midterms to help you study and learn better! Major Discovery Night Major Discovery Night is a major exploration event hosted with the Engineering Honor Society, Tau Beta Pi. Students meet and network with engineering alumni, who can give insight into careers and opportunities. The engineering department faculty and staff are in attendance to answer questions. Career Center + Career Resources Hours: M-F 8 am - 4:30 pm Email: Career-L@lists.clemson.edu Phone: 864-656-6000 The Center for Career and Professional Development helps students explore majors through one-on-one career counseling appointments, career assessments, and educational tools. Please see the career center website for a complete list of major-related resources. Visit Career Center CU Navigate Jessica Dan Haese Mechanical Engineering, '22 My experience with academic advising through General Engineering at Clemson has been absolutely incredible. My advisor knows me by name and is absolutely phenomenal; they always made me feel comfortable and confident in my career goals and in my academics at Clemson. Academic Advising Math Placement Quick Links Academic Forms Academic Success Center Professional Development Transfer Credits Wellness Services Copyright © Clemson University General Engineering | 106 Holtzendorff Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 (864) 656-2542 | Email Us