Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar COMPUTING SearchSearch ARTS & SCIENCES COMPUTING Faculty & Staff Students & Alumni Visitors & Others SearchSearch Students & Alumni Services and Support for Students Links & Contacts Email Printing Computer Labs Fixing My Computer Services and Support for Alumni System Status Penn O365 Email Google@SAS email SAS Web Sites SAS File Servers Network GPC Cluster Canvas more... Multi-Media Services Faculty & Staff Students & Alumni SAS Computing's Multi-Media Services (MMS) provides the Penn community with an array of media support systems for academic and course-related purposes. Computer labs, classroom technology support, equipment loan services, special event support and a variety of production services are available through our office. Support of School of Arts and Sciences (SAS) classes is given priority and is provided free of charge. Services and equipment for student groups, workshops, campus conferences, and meetings may incur rental and staff fees and are subject to availability. MMS is located in the basement of David Rittenhouse Labs at 209 S. 33rd St. in between Spruce St. and Walnut St. Please enter from the left most set of double doors that face 33rd st. There is a large sign above the set of doors that reads 'Multi-Media Services.' View Penn's campus map. Student Services Visit our Computer Labs Equipment Loan ASL Recording Room ASL Video Phone Room Faculty and Staff Services Reserve a Computer Lab Equipment Loan Audio/Video Recording Services Video Conferencing Audio/Video Duplication, Conversions, Web Hosting Contact Us Email: Phone: 215-898-4947 Address: 209 South 33rd Street MMS Staff Directory Facility Schedule: Spring 2022 Monday - Thursday 8AM - 9PM Friday 8AM - 4:30PM Saturday Closed Sunday Closed 2022 University Holidays and Other Exceptions In cases of inclement weather ~ Please contact 215-898- M E L T or refer to the University web site (www.upenn.edu) for further details. Date Facility Hours Occasion Monday, May 30th Closed Memorial Day Monday, July 4th Closed Independence Day Monday, September 5th Closed Labor Day Thursday and Friday, November 24th and 25th Closed Thanksgiving Monday, December 26th Closed Christmas Day (observed) Students & Alumni Services and Support for Students Links & Contacts Email Printing Computer Labs Fixing My Computer Services and Support for Alumni System Status Penn O365 Email Google@SAS email SAS Web Sites SAS File Servers Network GPC Cluster Canvas more... For Faculty & Staff Links & contacts Classroom quick links Get started with electronic resources Support & services for instructors Arts & Sciences Computing About SAS Computing Who provides my support? List of computing staff Information security For Students & Alumni Links & contacts Google@SAS SAS Computer Labs External Credit Approval (XCAT) Contact Penn Arts & Sciences Computing Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania