Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU Newsroom Search Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Select Web or PeopleWebPeople Search Newsroom: Topics For The Media Archives Contact Us Newsroom Tunes for Turtles: Texas A&M-Galveston Hosting Concert Benefiting Campus Sea Turtle Center March 13, 2022 Share Tweet Texas A&M University at Galveston Executive Director of Information Technology John Kovacevich carries a sea turtle into the Gulf of Mexico after it was treated & rehabilitated from a cold stun at the Gulf Center for Sea Turtle Research. By Andréa Bolt Join our campus community for an evening of music and community benefiting our Gulf Center for Sea Turtle Research (GCSTR) at the Texas A&M University at Galveston Campus Wednesday, March 30, 2022. Classical chamber music group Musica Tra Amici will play an intimate concert at the Aggie Special Events Center from 7 - 9 p.m. on campus. Attendees will also hear from speakers Chief Operating Officer Col. Michael Fossum ’80 USAFR (Ret.) and Executive Vice President for Engineering Panama Canal Authority Ilya Espino de Marotta ‘85. When GCSTR Director and Department of Marine Biology Professor Dr. Christopher Marshall was asked why he thought of a music concert as a fundraising event for sea turtles, he said that the overlap is conservation. “In the same way that musicians are dedicated to preserving and conserving the beauty of music, biologists like myself conserve animal species. We’re both trying to help make the world a better place for humans and animals alike. Without the efforts of the other, the world would truly be lacking.” Marshall went on to say that the $15 ticket donation for the concert will go directly toward operational expenses within the GCSTR. Food, supplies, and experienced staff are crucial to the success of the facility and its flippered patients. “Honestly, the day we opened the center, we had already outgrown it,” he explained. “The upper Texas coast desperately needs a fully-functioning sea turtle hospital capable of helping more patients, especially considering the historic cold stun events we’ve experienced in recent years.” Marshall and the GCSTR staff are dedicated to expanding not only the center’s medical abilities, but also its educational and outreach efforts. “We’ve already attracted some great folks, but we want more people to see, learn, and be involved with turtles. Plus, having such a facility on our campus will raise visibility and the reputation of our campus overall. Supporting the center is a win-win for Texans, Aggies, and conservationists.” Purchase concert tickets here: https://seaturtlecenterfoundation.com/products/symphony-fundraiser?fbclid=IwAR0VDs40VxcwpSRgqXabaoOakKOgYR3hAL5jQbAD_LAxp_8H9VL7QBQzzDA. ###Media contact: Andréa Bolt Social Media & Communications Manager a_bolt@tamug.edu More: Read more about Arts & Humanities Read more about Health & Environment Read more about Marine Biology COVID-19 Social Media Share Buttons Follow Us TAMUG FacebookTAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Texas A&M University at Galveston is an ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University which educates nearly 2,300 undergraduate and graduate students in a unique blend of marine and maritime programs, including majors in science, business, engineering, liberal arts, and transportation. It is driving the development of the blue economy in the Gulf Coast Region and is a critical contributor to Texas A&M’s sea-grant portion of Texas A&M’s rare land-, sea-, space-grant mission with nearly $10 million in research expenditures. Texas A&M-Galveston is also home to the Texas A&M Maritime Academy, one of seven in the U.S. and the only academy integrated into a Tier 1 academic institution, which trains over 400 cadets annually for maritime service and employment around the world. Texas A&M-Galveston is ideally located in Galveston, Texas on the Gulf Coast where is it surrounded by the industry, environment and programs essential to fulfilling its special-purpose mission. Aggies are known for their deep commitment to the success of each other and their strong desire to serve. If you are interested in supporting this endeavor or research, please contact the Texas A&M University at Galveston Office of Development by email at GiveToSeaAggies@txamfoundation.com or by calling (409) 740-4481. © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675, Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway, Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road, Galveston, TX 77554 Site Policies Back to top