Skip to main content Menu Menu Search News & Events Apply Visit Majors & Degrees Welcome to the University of Houston-Victoria Scroll Apply Visit Majors & Degrees Make your mark with a degree from the University of Houston-Victoria For more than 45 years, UHV has offered students a quality university experience at an affordable price. Find out more about all we can offer you. Dynamic Destination Victoria is a welcoming town located just two hours from four major cities, or you can take convenient classes online or in Greater Houston. Academic Excellence UHV is a nationally recognized, accredited university that is proud to be part of the UH System. Affordable Education We are ranked the fifth most affordable public university in Texas, and we will help you get the most financial aid possible. Personalized Attention Our faculty and staff are here to help you succeed with individual assistance and small class sizes. Teaching at UHV is rewarding because the impact is exponential. What my students learn and use in their own classes impacts so many of their students. Mary Lasater Assistant Professor of Education Pursue a degree in one of three diverse schools offering exciting degree options. Arts & Sciences Business Administration Education, Health Professions & Human Development Classes in more than 80 academic programs are taught by faculty ready to help you succeed. UHV’s small class sizes let me be more connected with my professors. It’s easy to get involved because people are encouraging and approachable. Aarushi Kumar BS, Class of 2019 UHV by the numbers 4,931 Student Enrollment (Fall 2020) 18:1 Student/Faculty Ratio $8,544 Annual Tuition & Fees (2020-21 in-state undergraduate, 30 hours) $39M Financial Aid Awarded Annually UHV is a close-knit community. It gave me a feeling of peace that people cared so much about me as a person and whether I succeeded. Jeremy Clark BA, Class of 2016, LSC Academic Advisor Social Stream #BEAJAG Powered by Curator.io © University of Houston-Victoria 3007 N. Ben Wilson St. Victoria, TX 77901 (361) 570-4848 Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram UHVConnect Search Submit Search Accessibility at UHV Anti-Discrimination at UHV Emergency Fraud and Non-Compliance Hotline Fraud Reporting Homeland Security Mental Health Resources Military and Veteran Services Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Student Complaints Texas Statewide Search Texas.gov UH System University Policies, Standards and Guidelines Webmaster Close Login to JagSpace myUHV Online Courses Request Info UHV Email About Us Academics Admissions at UHV Alumni & Friends Athletics Campus Life Contact UHV Cost and Aid Current Students Give to UHV Jobs at UHV UHV Katy Virtual Events Apply Visit Majors & Degrees Search Search Common Searches How can I get email to go to my Android phone? How do I activate my UHV account for the first time? How do I apply? How do I get to campus? Latest News UHV alumna receives bilingual teaching honor May 25, 2022 UHV MBA students formulate corporate strategies for business competition May 18, 2022 UHV Academic Affairs awards faculty, staff, students May 18, 2022 Visit UHV Newsroom Events Payment Deadline - Summer 2022 Regular, 8wk, FastTrack, & 5wk1 sessions at 11:59 PM May 31 , 2022 UHV Computer Labs and IT Help Desk Support Summer Interim 2022 Hours May 31 , 2022 Unavailable May 31 , 2022 View More Events