Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Violence Prevention What Is Relationship Abuse? What Is Relationship Abuse? What Is Domestic Violence? Domestic violence is the intentional pattern of behaviors used to exert power and control over a family member. In New York State, domestic violence refers to individuals who are or were married, have a child in common, or are related by blood. Domestic violence occurs in many forms and it exists on a spectrum. Abusive behavior can be physical, sexual, verbal, emotional, financial, and academic, and is usually a combination of several of these factors. What Is Dating Violence? Dating violence is the intentional pattern of behaviors used to exert power and control over a dating or romantic partner. In New York State, dating violence refers to violations that occur within an intimate relationship. Similar to domestic violence, dating violence occurs in many forms, including physical, sexual, verbal, emotional, financial, and academic abuse. Young people experience dating violence at significant rates. Girls and young women between the ages of 16 and 24 experience the highest rate of intimate partner violence.There are lots of terms and definitions that apply to this issue from a legal, educational, and/or advocacy framework. Other terms often used to describe domestic/dating violence include intimate partner violence, dating abuse, relationship violence, and relationship abuse. Additional Resources Columbia’s definition of domestic/dating violence New York State definition of domestic violence New York State initiative on dating abuse The National Domestic Violence Hotline What Are the Warning Signs of Abuse? Comes on strong, says, “I love you” early, pressures for a commitment right away Isolates partner from friends and family Blames partner for inciting abusive behaviors Uses threats to get what they want Is in constant contact, wants to know partner’s whereabouts at all times Checks email or social media accounts without partner’s permission; insists on sharing passwords Puts someone down, humiliates them in front of others Pressures a partner to have sex Learn more about the Quick Escape button. The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance and Immunization Compliance Offices Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close