Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners About Us Degrees Admission People Students Our Work Happenings Friends & Giving Search Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home Students Job & Internship Openings AAA Job & Internship Openings Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Here you'll find some currently open job and internship listings for UM students and alumni. For thousands more opportunities, log in to Handshake. For additional career help, check out some of the resources described below. It's never too early to focus on your professional development. Gaining work experience during college is crucial for your future career success! Take a look at the open internship & job opportunities listed below. These employers are looking to hire current students, students who are about to graduate, and/or recent alumni. For even more opportunities, log in to Handshake! Internships Open All Tabs Advocacy & Policy Athletic Training Case Management Clinical Research Clinical Work Coaching Community Development Community Service Data Management Data Science Elementary Education Event Planning Exercise and Fitness Fundraising and Development Government Grant Writing International Development Justice and Corrections Mental Health Non-Profit Nutrition Parks and Recreation Philanthropy Physical/Health Education Research Sports Administration Sports Analytics Urban Planning Jobs Open All Tabs Advocacy & Policy Athletic Training Case Management Clinical Research Clinical Work Coaching Community Development Community Service Data Management Data Science Elementary Education ESL Teaching Event Planning Exceptional Student Education Exercise and Fitness Fundraising and Development Government Grant Writing Higher Education – Administration Higher Education – Admission & Enrollment Higher Education – Student Life Higher Education – Teaching & Research International Development Justice and Corrections Language Teaching Non-Profit Nutrition Occupational Therapy Parks and Recreation Philanthropy Physical Therapy Physical/Health Education Research Sports Administration Sports Analytics Therapy & Counseling Urban Planning Not seeing what you're looking for? For thousands more openings, log in to Handshake today! What is Handshake? Handshake is a career services platform created for students and alumni to use in their career development. It’s used by over 200,000 employers, including all Fortune 500 companies! Thousands of internship and job opportunities are posted on Handshake by employers specifically looking to hire students. All UM students have a Handshake account that is automatically created for them when they enroll at the U. All you have to do is log in to Handshake to activate your account. Handshake will then recommend certain positions to you based on your profile, allowing for easy searching. Completing and updating your profile will provide Handshake with a better idea of which job and internship listings you may be interested in. Here are some of the awesome things you can do with Handshake: Apply for jobs & internships Register for career fairs, workshops, & info sessions Upload your resume for an online critique from the Toppel Career Center Research thousands of employers Network with recruiters and other students for career insights Need help with career planning? Careers are jungle gyms, not ladders. In other words, there’s no such thing as a perfect, direct career path that’s free of challenges. And no single major leads to one and only one career. But all careers have to start somewhere, and the Toppel Career Center is here to help you navigate your professional development and career-related decisions. There’s no appointment necessary to speak with a Toppel career advisor. Use this link to enter our virtual Drop-In advising Zoom room and get the advice you need anytime Monday – Friday, 8:30am-5pm. Check out Toppel’s website for tons of career resources, events, mentors, and more! University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices