Skip to main content Operating Status Face coverings are optional in offices, conference rooms, research labs, housing, and public spaces in buildings. Face coverings are still required in all teaching spaces, teaching labs, computer labs, buses, libraries, clinical facilities, and student-staff and student-faculty meetings spaces. More COVID-19 information Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Rutgers Logo New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving Gcse block (invisible) Open Search Rutgers Logo About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Advancing Treatment and Wellness Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close About Rutgers About the University President Jonathan Holloway Serving New Jersey and the World An Economic Engine A Partner in Research and Innovation United Against COVID-19 Rutgers Excellence Rutgers, By the Numbers Rutgers Rankings Budget Facts Our Structure Governance and Leadership Office of the President Administrative Council Our Revolutionary Roots Rutgers Traditional Songs The Rutgers Experience Discover Rutgers Rutgers–New Brunswick Rutgers–Newark Rutgers–Camden Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences (RBHS) Show Your Rutgers Pride Rutgers Athletics Uniquely New Jersey Academics Academics Overview Undergraduate Academics Explore Undergraduate Programs Graduate and Professional Studies Explore Graduate & Professional Programs Top Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges Continuing Education Online Degree Programs Catalogs Libraries Faculty Excellence Global Learning Rutgers at Your Community College Student Support Research Research at Rutgers A Partner in Research and Innovation Health & Patient Care Admissions & Tuition About Applying Path to Rutgers Tuition and Financial Aid Visits and Tours Getting Here Utility Mobile Info For: Prospective Students and Parents Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni and Donors Partners Job Seekers News Rutgers Today Rutgers Magazine Events Giving New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health The Rutgers Experience Rutgers–Camden Rutgers University–Camden Rutgers Smart, Camden Proud Located just minutes from Philadelphia, Rutgers University–Camden delivers groundbreaking work that impacts the world while offering its students truly experiential education in an intimate, supportive environment. 38 Undergraduate majors 29 Graduate programs 15:1 Student-to-faculty ratio 97% Of survey respondents have a job or are in graduate school within six months of graduation Discover Rutgers University-Camden City Life Awaits Rutgers–Camden gives you the best of two incredible cities: Philadelphia and Camden. You’ll be surrounded by world-renowned arts, history, sports, culture, and some of the best career-building internships and learning experiences in the nation. Schools and Colleges Camden College of Arts and Sciences Graduate School–Camden Rutgers Law School School of Business–Camden School of Nursing–Camden Chancellor Antonio Tillis Antonio D. Tillis is chancellor of Rutgers University–Camden. Prior to becoming chancellor in July 2021, Tillis was interim president of the University of Houston–Downtown. Also at the University of Houston, he served as dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences, the largest of the 15 academic and professional colleges at the university. Read More Community A close, friendly campus means you’ll always feel at home. Rutgers–Camden is dedicated to supporting our students and engaging deeply with the wider Camden community. Academics The world-class faculty at Rutgers–Camden are experts in their fields who strive every day to share that knowledge with their students. Location Being in the center of the Philadelphia-Camden metro area makes Rutgers–Camden an inspiring, exciting place to get your degree. Choosing Rutgers–Camden At Rutgers University–Camden, you’ll find everything you need to focus your ambitions and reach your goals. You’ll belong from the beginning on our intentionally personal campus and get the best of both worlds—a tight-knit community where you’ll learn, and a thrilling, energetic city where you’ll grow. Tuition and Fees Rutgers–Camden offers an affordable, world-class education that will open the door to opportunities without saddling you with a lifetime of debt. Undergraduate Admissions With more than 75 undergraduate majors, minors, and specialized programs available at Rutgers–Camden, you’ll find what you need to focus your ambitions and reach your goals. Virtual Tour Virtually explore Rutgers-Camden in an immersive, 360-degree experience that lets you “walk” around campus and experience it for yourself. Graduate Admissions With 29 graduate programs in everything from business to nursing to childhood studies, earning your master’s or doctoral degree at Rutgers–Camden's small, interconnected campus allows for extensive research and professional opportunities that will prepare you for the next step. Law School Admissions With full-time and part-time study options, Rutgers Law School is a public law school of national distinction offering a rigorous legal education and recognition as a high-value law school. Honors College Home to exceptional students who want to learn and help make the world a better place, the Honors College is a learning community where curiosity, knowledge, diversity, and collaboration intentionally intersect. Student Activities No matter what you’re passionate about, you’ll find like-minded people at Rutgers–Camden. With over 100 clubs and organizations, 19 Division III sports teams, and the combined cultural powerhouses of both Camden and Philadelphia at your fingertips, you’ll make memories and friends that will last a lifetime. More about Campus Activities Civic Engagement Rutgers–Camden makes a proud commitment to give back to the community. Through nationally recognized outreach programs, students get the opportunity to partner with organizations from around the region to make a real difference in the lives of those who need it most. Learn More About Civic Engagement Housing and Dining With on-campus suites and apartments, and even themed floor communities that align students with similar interests, there’s plenty of convenient campus living options, as well as access to on-campus and neighborhood dining options that are great for a quick snack or a full meal. Learn More about Where to Live and Where to Eat Athletics The home of the Scarlet Raptors, Rutgers–Camden competes in several regional athletic conferences at the NCAA Division III level for men’s and women’s sports. More about The Scarlet Raptors Arts and Culture From lunch-hour concerts to opening-night galas, you can celebrate (and participate in) the arts at Rutgers–Camden. All year long, Rutgers–Camden hosts an incredible selection of art exhibitions, literary readings from noted authors, concerts, dance performances, and live theater. Learn More about Arts and Cultural Activities on Campus Recreation and Wellness Strong minds and strong bodies are a natural complement. Keep in shape and support your scholarly activities with the many team sports, club sports, fitness classes, and health services available to you at Rutgers–Camden. Learn More about Recreation and Wellness Programs Featured Stories Join a community of students and faculty who are incredible scholars and trailblazers in their fields. What will you discover at Rutgers–Camden? Watch: Forever Forward: Rutgers University–Camden Major Gift Creates Scholarship Program for Law Students COVID-19 and the Global Racial Reckoning at Rutgers–Camden Faculty and Students Assist in Administering COVID-19 Vaccinations Student’s Forensic Science Research in DNA Analysis Could Help Speed Up Crime Solving Nursing Student Receives Scholarship for Education in Wound Care Rutgers–Camden Recognized Nationally for Value and Opportunity Researchers Study Virus Evolution Trends Relevant for COVID-19 and Other Pandemics Prestigious NSF Award Presented to Rutgers‒Camden Climate Change Researcher Research: Racism Kills Black People in Inconspicuous Ways Student Named to Hometown Task Force on Diversity and Inclusion Law Professor Instrumental in Landmark LGBT Decision Site Footer Rutgers University New Brunswick Newark Camden RBHS/Health Connect Campus Safety Contact Us Continuing Education Giving to Rutgers Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions University Maps Universitywide Offices Work at Rutgers Find a Health Care Provider Rutgers Magazine University Events Academic Academic Calendars Course Catalogs University Libraries myRutgers Portal Notices April 27, 2022: Open Hearing on the University’s Tuition, Fees, and Housing and Dining Charges for 2022–2023 Commencement Information University Operating Status Accessibility Resources Budget Facts Consumer Information Disclosures Follow Us Subscribe to Rutgers News Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright ©2022, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster