Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center For Writing and Communication Schedule a Session Presentations FAQ Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Schedule a Session Information for students Information for faculty FAQ CWC Resources University LibrariesCitation HelpPresentation Practice Space Take Action How To Schedule with CWC Meet our staff Information for students Information for faculty Follow the CWC Online Facebooktwitter Home Center For Writing and Communication About Sign-Up for a Center For Writing and Communication (CWC) Session How to Schedule a CWC Session Scheduling an Appointment Appointment Policies · Scheduled appointments typically last 45 minutes, while walk-ins are capped at 30 minutes. · If you are working with a draft, please bring a printed copy with you. The library has printers on each floor available for students. · Sessions typically start at the top of the hour. · Session times are designed so consultants have a 15-minute break in between sessions. It’s during this time that consultants write session reports, which we send to instructors and keep for our records. We ask that clients respect this time and wait patiently for their session to begin. · Scheduled appointments take priority over walk-ins. Making an appointment is the best way to make sure you can work with a consultant. · If you’re going over an assignment, please bring the prompt with you. How to Make an Appointment at the CWC 1. Click “schedule a session” at the top of the page. 2. Click “in-person consultation.” 3. If you have been to center before, login with your credentials. a. What if I don’t remember my password? i. The “reset your password” link at the bottom of the page will send you an email to change your password. b. What if I haven’t been to the CWC before? i. Click “register for an account.” After you have made an account, you can log into the system. 4. After logging in, you’ll be able to see our schedule. The gray blocks represent times when we are closed. Blue blocks represent appointments made by other students. White blocks are available slots. 5. Select a white block that represents the day and time you’re available. 6. Fill out the form that pops up. When you’re done, click “save appointment.” 7. You have successfully made an appointment with the CWC. Make sure you write down the date and time. An email notifying you of your appointment should also appear in your inbox as an added reminder. 8. If you have any questions or problems, call us at (901) 678-1694. How to Make an Online Appointment 1. Click “schedule a session” at the top of the page. 2. Click “online consultation.” 3. Click “login,” which will redirect you to the myCampus login system. 4. Select “meet a tutor.” 5. Search for the tutoring topic. a. Tip: Searching for “writing” will yield many results. Try searching for the course instead. 6. When you find a tutor, click “schedule” in their descriptor box. 7. Pick a date and time that represents when you’re available. 8. Fill out the form and hit “schedule” to make an appointment. 9. You have successfully made an appointment! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/14/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.