Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » iBearcatsGlobal iBearcatsGlobal iBearcatsGlobal is the system that you will use to fill out forms, set up appointments with UC International advisors and maintain your visa status in the United States. Go to iBearcatsGlobal Submit a Form Login to iBearcatsGlobal Click on your visa type Select the form you want to submit Follow the instructions in the form Upload any required documents to the form Types of Requests Most requests you will make to UC International will be submitted using forms on iBearcatsGlobal. Newly admitted students should use the Orientation e-form to inform us of your arrival plans. Currently enrolled students can use iBearcatsGlobal to update their biographical information, emergency contacts, local U.S. address and permanent overseas address. Other requests include the following: Certification Letter Change in Degree Level Change in Major Curricular Practical Training Departure from U.S. Permanently Dependent I-20 / DS-2019 I-20 / DS-2019 Extension Invitation Letter Reduced Course Load (Academic Reasons) Replace a Lost I-20 Reduced Course Load for Medical Reasons School Transfer Signature on I-20 / DS-2019 for Travel Tax Analysis Form Absent from U.S. During Current Quarter UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top