HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation HOME DIVISIONS Medical Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) Healthy Campus HEALTH TOPICS ADHD Alcohol and Other Drugs Antibiotics Body Image Building Social Connections Fitness Interpersonal Violence Mental Health Nutrition Social Media and Internet Use Sexual Health Sleep Spring Break Safety Stress Suicide Sustainibility Tobacco Well-being CONTACT ABOUT POLICIES & RECORDS Advance Directives Diversity Eligibility Health Fee Privacy Practice Records & Confidentiality Rights & Responsibilities Aspire to Be Well Meet the Facilitators On-Campus Resources Bystander Intervention Interpersonal Violence Prevention Alcohol and Other Drugs Mental Health Holistic Wellness Aspire to Be Well for Undergraduate Students Aspire to Be Well is a 90-minute peer-led health- and safety-focused dialogue. The dialogue covers key areas to maintaining a healthy and safe campus including overall wellness, alcohol and other drug misuse prevention, mental health and suicide prevention, and interpersonal violence prevention. Students will gain an understanding of campus resources and learn how to help others in need through risk-reduction strategies and bystander intervention. Sign Up New students will receive session and sign-up information in their @clemson.edu email account during the first week of classes. Online sign-up is required before attending a session. Please note that Aspire to Be Well contains information about interpersonal violence and suicide that may be emotionally triggering for some individuals. If you have concerns or would like to discuss alternatives to participating in Aspire to Be Well in order to complete this requirement, please contact our office at 864-656-3053 or cgreen6@clemson.edu. Expectations Aspire to Be Well for Undergraduate Students is a 90 minute program. To fulfill this CU 1000 requirement, all students are required to sign up for a session, bring your laptop and CUID to the session, attend the entire length of the session and complete a short quiz during the session. CU 1000 is a pass/fail zero-credit course that all new Clemson students are required to take. Each new student should have registered for CU 1000 during orientation course registration. View the Required Components of CU1000 Contact To contact the Aspire to Be Well coordinators, please email aspire@clemson.edu. CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster