Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Bush Center SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Tower Center Resources ☰ The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU Center for Presidential History at SMU Center for Presidential History at SMU Only a handful of universities around the country can boast of a presidential library on their campus, and SMU is part of that elite club. Its archive offers an incomparable resource for our students, and the Bush Center frequently brings some of the country’s – indeed the world’s – great minds to campus for talks, lectures or just to work with our faculty and in our classes. Our Center for Presidential History is a fuller and more exciting place to study the past by its presence in our midst. The Center for Presidential History at SMU, the hub of current and innovative research on the American presidency, maintains two significant collaborations with the Bush Center that advance the understanding of the history of the office and the events and issues that shape each leader. The “Presidential Histories and Memories” series brings noted writers and historians to campus for thought-provoking discussions. The events are free and open to the public. The Collective Memories Project is an ongoing effort enhancing the historical and archival record of various presidential administrations, beginning with the presidency of George W. Bush. The first live project, “The Election of 2004,” features interviews with key participants and scholars and new analysis of the issues. The George W. Bush Presidential Center and SMU SMU-Bush Center Partnerships Center for Presidential History at SMU Commencement Addresses Timeline of Bush Center Site Selection Process Tower Center Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share