Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Facilities & Rentals » Process Set Navigation title in component Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Rental Process Rental Rates Rental Policies Facility Reservation form Interested in hosting your next event in one of our facilities? Rental requests must be made a minimum of one week (5 business days) prior to the event date. Submit a facility reservation request Or a Aquatic Rental Request Facility and Multi-area Rentals – Amber Green – amber.green@uc.edu or 513-556-0708 Aquatic Rentals – Autumn Cleverley - autumn.cleverley@uc.edu or 513-556-0382 If you are unable to reach the desired staff member on your first attempt, leave them a message or send an email. Your call will be returned within 2 business days to formalize your reservation request. Requesting parties will receive email notification that the request has been received. This does not guarantee that the space has been reserved for your rental. Once approved, a tentative hold on the rental space(s) will be made, and rental information packet will be emailed to you. This packet includes your Rental Confirmation Form and/or Facility Lease Agreement and the waivers associated with your reservation. (All minors, 17 years of age or younger, will need a waiver signed by a parent or legal guardian) To confirm your rental and guarantee your hold on the space, you must return your signed rental documents to your Campus Recreation rental contact within one week (5 business days) after receiving your rental packet. *Please verify the content of the rental documents. If you require any changes or need clarification, contact your Campus Recreation rental contact. Campus Recreation reserves the right to schedule additional staff, at the lessee’s expense, to assist in managing the event and participants on the date of the reservation. The renter must communicate the rental agreement and arrangements to their group members, collect and pay group fees, and is responsible for group members’ adherence to Campus Recreation Rules and Regulations. All Campus Recreation Center rentals require the group contact to go to the Member Services Desk upon arrival to present a photo ID and confirm group numbers. Any additional individuals over the original group reservation will pay the general admission fee ($12). All other group members should assemble in the lobby. Payment in full is required 30 business days following the final date of the rental period on all facility and aquatic rentals. Birthday Party payments are due 5 business days prior to the date of the party. A $25.00 administrative fee is charged for all cancellations. 10. If an event extends beyond the contracted period will be charged overtime. All overtime fees will be charged at 50% above the normal hourly rental rate. All rental requests are considered on an individual basis and are subject to approval. Exclusive reservations of spaces are scheduled primarily during times of low membership usage or outside normal hours of operation. A confirmed contract along with required insurance and/or waiver of informed consent are required by all groups using the facilities. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top