Skip to site alert. Skip to content Columbia School of Nursing Students Alumni Faculty Contact Us Search Make a Gift About Us About Us Message From the Dean Leadership Faculty Our Culture News Events Facts and Figures Accreditation Make a Gift Contact Us Our Culture Diversity and Cultural Affairs Civility Statement Social Justice and Health Equity and Anti-Racism Commitment Sustainability Our History Jonas Partnership Join Our Team Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Learn about our commitment to social justice and health equality and anti-racism. View Our Progress Academics Academics A Columbia Nursing Education Admissions at a Glance Academic Programs Courses Financial Aid Continuing Nursing Education Helene Fuld Health Trust Simulation Center Academic Programs Doctor of Nursing Practice Doctor of Nursing Practice in Nurse Anesthesia Doctor of Philosophy Masters Direct Entry Program For Non-Nurses Masters in Advanced Clinical Management and Leadership Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Transgender Non-Binary (Trans NB) Health Care for Advance Practice Nurses and PAs Palliative Care Throughout the Lifespan for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) Admissions at a Glance Learn more about Admissions at Columbia Nursing, including important dates and deadlines, and how to apply to all of our programs. Learn More About Admissions Research Research Research Faculty and Postdoctoral Fellows Research Areas of Focus Research Centers and Programs Training Programs Research Resources Research Centers and Programs Center for Health Policy Center for Improving Palliative Care for Vulnerable Adults with MCC Precision in Symptom Self-Management Center Center for Healthcare Delivery Research and Innovations Center for Research on People of Color Center for Sexual and Gender Minority Health Research Linking to Improve Nursing Knowledge Research Areas of Focus Explore the research areas of focus conducted by our faculty, postdocs, and students. View Our Focus Areas Patient Care Global Health Global Health Global Opportunities for Students Global Research International Visitors WHO Collaborating Center Contact Global Opportunities for Students Global opportunities for clinical practicum and research may be available for MDE and doctoral students at Columbia Nursing. Get More Information You are here Home > Academics > Academic Programs > Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Admissions Tuition and Fees FAQ Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Program Director Sally Aboelela, PhD, RN Assistant Professor of Nursing at CUMC Apply Now to the Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing Application Deadlines Fall 2022 Entry: June 28, 2022 Spring 2023 Entry: October 28, 2022 Columbia University School Nursing is committed to preparing future nurses by offering an excellent education, beginning with prerequisite courses. The Online Prerequisites for Entry to Nursing (OPEN) program allows non-nurses to take courses needed to apply to nursing school or other health professions schools that require science prerequisites. All courses are taught by Columbia University faculty and are undergraduate-level. Course offerings are available three times per year with each session lasting ten weeks. The modules are set up independently and allow registration for courses to be taken concurrently. Upon completion, all grades are posted on an official transcript from Columbia University. The courses are fully accredited and transferable. In alignment with our commitment to social justice and health equity, these courses are offered online and at a discounted tuition. OPEN Program Calendar Summer 2021 May 24 - June 4, 2021: OPEN Program Early Registration Period (New OPEN Students) June 7, 2021: OPEN Program Summer Session Begins June 7-11, 2021: OPEN Change of Program Period June 11, 2021: Last Day to Drop a Summer Session Course with Tuition Refunded (after this date, no tuition is refunded), Registration Period for Cross-Registration OPEN Students (With Approval) August 16, 2021: OPEN Program Summer Session Ends August 23-27, 2021: New and Continuing Student Registration August 30-September 3, 2021: New and Continuing Student Registration Fall 2021 September 9-10, 2021: New and Continuing Student Registration September 13, 2021: OPEN Fall Session Begins September 13-17, 2021: OPEN Change of Program Period November 26, 2021: OPEN Fall Session Ends Spring 2022 December 27-January 14, 2022: OPEN Program Cross-Registration Request Period January 4-14, 2022: OPEN New and Continuing Student Registration January 18-28, 2022: OPEN Program Cross-Registration Review and Approval Period January 24, 2022: OPEN Spring Session Begins January 24-28, 2022: OPEN Change of Program period January 28, 2022: Last Day to Add/Drop a Spring Course April 8, 2022: OPEN Spring Session Ends Summer 2022 May 31-June 10, 2022: OPEN Program Cross-Registration Request & Approval Period May 31-June 10, 2022: OPEN New and Continuing Student Registration (Anticipated) June 13, 2022: OPEN Summer Session Begins (Anticipated) June 13-17, 2022: OPEN Change of Program Period (Anticipated) June 17, 2022: Last Day to Add/Drop Course with Tuition Refunded (Anticipated) August 8, 2022: Last day to Withdraw from Courses without Tuition Refunded (Anticipated) August 22, 2022: OPEN Summer Session Ends (Anticipated) Fall 2022 August 29-September 9, 2022: OPEN Early Registration Period (New Students) (Anticipated) September 12, 2022: OPEN Fall Session Begins (Anticipated) September 12-16, 2022: OPEN Change of Program Period (Anticipated) September 16, 2022: Last Day to Add/Drop Course with Tuition Refunded (Anticipated) November 21, 2022: OPEN Fall Session Ends (Anticipated) Spring 2023 January 9 - 20, 2023: OPEN Early Registration Period (New OPEN Students) (Anticipated) January 23, 2023: OPEN Spring Session Begins (Anticipated) January 23-27, 2023: OPEN Change of Program Period (Anticipated) January 27, 2023: Last Day to Add/Drop Course with Tuition Refunded (Anticipated) April 3, 2023: OPEN Spring Session Ends (Anticipated) School of Nursing Academic Calendar For program related questions please contact cuson-open@cumc.columbia.edu. Registration Policies & Procedures The OPEN Program is a remote online non-degree program. Students in the OPEN program can only enroll in Columbia Nursing OPEN courses. OPEN students do not receive Columbia University ID cards, and do not have access to University campus buildings or events. Students Enrolled or Applying to other Columbia University (or Affiliate) Schools Columbia students can only enroll under one school at a time. Cross-Registration for Non-Nursing Columbia University Students If enrolled in another Columbia University program, Columbia Nursing allows a limited number of students to cross-register in OPEN courses during the OPEN Change of Program period. Students that cross-register will be billed by their home school. Students enrolled in other Columbia programs can complete the OPEN Cross-Registration Request Form to indicate your interest in cross-registering in OPEN courses. Students will be added to a waitlist to cross-register in OPEN courses at Columbia Nursing. Please note that submission of this form does not guarantee permission to cross-register. Students approved to cross-register will be emailed by the Office of Student Services at Columbia Nursing during the OPEN change of program period. OPEN Enrollment Policy Students enrolled in the OPEN Program are considered active, non-degree students for a period of one academic year (three consecutive semesters). During this time, students can enroll in OPEN courses only (OPEN students cannot cross register at other courses outside of the School of Nursing) and have an active Columbia Nursing email account. Admissions does not grant deferrals in the OPEN program and will need to reapply if they cannot enroll in the semester they are applying to. OPEN Faculty Sally Aboelela, PhD, RN Human Anatomy & Physiology II View Profile Michelle Evans, DNP Microbiology Gabrielle A. Ranger-Murdock, DNP, PMHNP Introduction to Developmental Psychology: A Lifespan Perspective Shanelly Singh, DNP Anatomy & Physiology I Lora Sporny, Ed.D Human Nutrition View Profile Courses Course ID Course Name Credits Description NURS4104N Introduction to Human Nutrition 3 This undergraduate-level introductory course provides an overview of the science of nutrition and nutrition's relationship to health promotion and disease prevention. The primary focus is on the essential macronutrients and micronutrients, including their chemical structures, food sources, digestion and absorption, metabolism, storage, and excretion. Students develop the skills to evaluate dietary patterns and to estimate caloric requirements and nutrient needs using tools such as Dietary Guidelines for Americans, My Plate, Nutrition Facts Labels, and Dietary Reference Intakes. NURS4105N Human Anatomy & Physiology I 4 This undergraduate-level introductory course is the first of a two-course-series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4106N Human Anatomy & Physiology II 4 This undergraduate-level introductory course is the second of a two-course series on human anatomy and physiology. Using a body systems approach, we will study the anatomical structure and physiological function of the human body. Foundational concepts from chemistry, cell biology, and histology are reviewed and built upon through the progression of topics. Each of the body systems will be studied for their structure, function, and mechanisms of regulation. The core concepts of levels of organization, interdependence of systems, and homeostasis will be emphasized throughout the course. This beginner level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of physiology and pathophysiology within a nursing curriculum. NURS4110N Microbiology 4 This online undergraduate-level introductory course focuses on the core concepts and principles of microbiology. We will explore how microorganisms co-exist and interact with humans creating both beneficial and pathological results. We will survey the diversity of microorganisms, their classification, and the essential processes needed for survival; which will dictate the environments in which they can thrive. This exploration of microorganism diversity will include topics such as microbial nutrition and metabolism, genetics, and antimicrobial mechanisms employed by and against microorganisms. Special attention will be given to understanding the human immune system, mechanisms of infection by pathogenic microorganisms, and the role non-harmful microbiota serve in supporting immune function. The weekly lab component of this course will support and complement each learning module and familiarize students with basic microbiologic lab techniques. NURS4111N Introduction to Developmental Psychology: A Lifespan Perspective 3 This introductory course covers human development across the lifespan. The course will provide an overview of development and the complexity of human growth through physical, cognitive, emotional, and social capacities. A review of historical and modern-day developmental theories as well as more complex interpersonal constructs, such as cultural variations, will be discussed. Special emphasis is placed upon examining the dynamic interplay between biology and environment with relevant application to nursing practice. The role of social and cultural stressors such as racism and socioeconomics in shaping human development will be examined. This undergraduate-level course will lay the foundation for further advanced study of human development within a nursing curriculum. Total Credits:18 Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Academics Research Patient Care Global Health Contact Us Students Alumni Intranet Careers Columbia University School of Nursing 560 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top