Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Community Connection Magazine Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Menu Community Connection Magazine From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work Baylor>Community Connection Magazine >Stories>Crystal Brown Alumni Profile: Shining Her Light For Others Crystal Brown Alumni Profile: Shining Her Light For Others By Cade Stiles, GSSW writing intern October 5, 2021 Military veteran and Baylor alumna Crystal Brown is shining her Baylor light via social work in a way she never expected—in the field of nephrology. Growing up, Brown recalls seeing her cousin dressed professionally each day as an attorney. She always knew as a kid that she too wanted to be a professional one day so she would be able to establish her own voice. As a young adult, Brown joined the Army and served overseas in Germany and one tour in Iraq as part of the 101st Military Intelligence Battalion. During her time in Iraq, she served as a gunner and supply sergeant. Upon her honorable discharge, Brown left the military with a new purpose in mind: devoting her life to helping other veterans and active military duty members. Brown went on to pursue her undergraduate degree from Texas A&M University Central Texas in 2016. At first, she was a psychology major, until she took a course in medical social work. “[That’s where] I absolutely fell in love with all things social work, because I didn’t realize social workers can do what we can do. We can do so many things, we can work in so many settings,” said Brown. Brown then started looking into MSW programs. Her friend suggested she check out Baylor. She first thought it was out of reach financially, but after applying for a number of scholarships, Brown officially became a part of the Bear family. At first, Brown struggled with feeling underrepresented as a Black woman in her field, but she had a dedicated professor in her first semester at the GSSW, Luci Hoppe, who helped her realize she belonged and could have a future in social work. Brown felt a lack of representation only made it that much more important that she fight for her voice. Now, Brown knows that voice does not have to be the loudest, but rather the most consistent and assertive—because even if it falls upon deaf ears at first, change occurs with perseverance and not overnight. [That’s where] I absolutely fell in love with all things social work, because I didn’t realize social workers can do what we can do. We can do so many things, we can work in so many settings. While pursuing her MSW at Baylor, Brown learned to be confident in her abilities and to play to her strengths. She learned how to adapt and to open herself up to being more flexible. The skills she learned in the military about being disciplined, maintaining integrity and not cutting corners helped Brown succeed while working on her degree at Baylor. After two years of hard work, Brown completed her degree and lived up to her dream as a child of becoming a professional. Now a licensed Master’s level social worker, Brown is working full-time as a nephrology social worker at the Fresenius Medical Center in Harker Heights. She hopes to soon complete her two years of supervision needed to receive her independent license for clinical social work. She looks forward each day to helping improve the quality of life for others. Her dream is to one day work with active duty members at Fort Hood. “That’s my truest professional passion, to work with military-affiliated individuals,” said Brown. Brown never imagined she would find herself working in a dialysis unit, but she finds herself feeling rewarded every time her patients are able to get the help they need. She helps them find resources available such as insurance coverage for a chronic disease, as well as conduct psychosocial assessments, counseling, emotional support and refer patients to transplant facilities. The nudges of encouragement she receives each day, and being able to help find solutions motivate Brown to push through the harder days. Any time she finds herself overwhelmed, she leans on her family and friends, gym sessions, car drives, or Netflix to help her replenish and prepare herself again for serving others. In her advice to future social workers, Brown added “Don’t force your calling, your calling will choose you. Social work is a great field; it’s just about finding your niche. We have lots of room to grow and to live the life that’s most comfortable to us while enjoying our passion at the same time.” Crystal Brown, we thank you for your service as a veteran, as a Bear, and as a social worker in the medical field. Good luck in your future endeavors and keep shining your light bright! #sicem Explore More Featured Meet MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez May 12, 2022 Pope Francis once said, “Go and show love to everyone, because your life is a precious mission: it is not a burden to be borne, but a gift to offer.” And when you meet our 2022 MSW Outstanding Student Trinity Martinez, you know no other mantra could better describe her. Trinity is an advanced standing student from San Antonio, Texas, but has lived all over the US and has traveled the world through mission work and study abroad programs, including countries such as Lithuania, Jamaica, Italy and Ireland. All of these experiences contributed to her ability to adapt well to change and exposed her to many cultures and diversity at a formative age. Today, she is a natural leader, committed to speaking up for others and standing up for what she believes. Featured Meet BSW Outstanding Student Micaela Jones May 9, 2022 From a family of educators arises Micaela Jones—emerging social worker. This graduating senior originally thought she would continue the “Jones legacy” as a teacher until she began student teaching and realized that many times, the “home prevented students from being able to thrive in the classroom.” Couple that with a heart for justice, and it became clear that social work was the correct path for Micaela to pursue so that she could impact change at a larger systemic level. It was this passion that earned Micaela the title of BSW Outstanding Student of the year! Research Healthy Bonds for Black Fathers-in-law, Sons-in-law Feb. 9, 2022 What does a healthy relationship look like for a Black son-in-law and his father-in-law? A study aims to answer that question and was published in “Psychology of Men & Masculinities” by University of Maryland School of Social Work’s (UMSSW) Assistant Professor Ericka M. Lewis, PhD, MSW, with Professor Michael E. Woolley, PhD, MSW, and Baylor University Assistant Professor Brianna P. Lemmons, PhD, MSW. Studies on in-laws are far and few between, less so for male in-law relationships, and even less so for Black male in-laws. Community The Enneagram and Baylor's Certification Program Oct. 19, 2021 The Enneagram, unlike many modern-day personality tools such as the Myers-Briggs or the Birkman, can trace its roots to ancient times. The word itself is derived from the Greek words ennea (nine) and grammos (drawn symbol). The Enneagram is represented by a circle with nine different starting points and nine equidistant lines drawn within the circle. It is meant to show nine different perspectives or “personalities” for how different people view and understand the world. The lines within the circle show how different personalities interact with each other in times of stress or growth. Numerous tests or checklists can be found online or in books to help someone identify which personality type resonates the most with themselves. However, as learned from Dr. Jon Singletary, Dean of the Garland School of Social Work, the Enneagram is so much more than just a test. Dr. Singletary describes the Enneagram as a resource that can be used to better help us understand ourselves. He adds that the Enneagram can reveal more about how God has created us, is calling us, and transforming us. Are you looking for more Stories? All StoriesArchives Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 From the Dean Stories BSW MSW PhD Alumni Community Faculty Research C3I Class Notes Submit News Ideas Print Archives Field Awards Field Agency Awards 2022: Task Supervisor of the Year Field Agency Awards: 2022 Field Instructor of the Year School of Social Work