Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research About Us Services Research FAQ Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action College of Health Sciences Participate in a Study Contact Us Home Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research The Center for Nutraceutical and Dietary Supplement Research (CNDSR) within the College of Health Sciences at the University of Memphis investigates botanical agents, dietary ingredients and finished dietary supplements in terms of safety and efficacy, through the use of cell culture experiments, animal studies and human clinical trials. Director Dr. Richard J. Bloomer has close to 20 years of experience working directly with dietary ingredients and supplement, both as a scientist and consumer. He has published extensively in this area and has been invited to present at national and international conferences focused on natural products. Multiple scientists work with Dr. Bloomer, collectively possessing expertise in assay design, cell culture experiments, pre-clinical animal studies, human clinical trials and human pharmacokinetic studies. A particular strength of the Center is the ability for scientists to perform both safety and efficacy experiments using raw materials, isolated ingredients and finished dietary supplements. This includes pharmacokinetic evaluations of new and existing ingredients, in addition to assay development using technology such as HPLC, GC/MS, LC/MS and other platforms. Studies can be performed using both animal models and human subjects, as well as cell culture. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/25/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.