Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Event Management Certificate Request Info Program at a Glance Program Graduate Certificate College(s) Rosen College of Hospitality Management Department(s) Dean's Office HSPMG The Graduate Certificate in Event Management provides knowledge and information that facilitates the effective organization and management of events in the public, private and third sector contexts. The certificate covers the administration of events (e.g. promotion, budgeting, marketing, production, legal issues, customer service, ticketing and concession), the selling and marketing of conventions and conferences, and the organization and administration of mega-events. Events are such an integral component of many industries today that although with a strong focus on tourism and hospitality, the certificate incorporates a number of perspectives with event legacies being a particularly pertinent issue for all coursework. Students learn to synthesize theory and application at the graduate level in order to produce the knowledge base necessary to fully utilize available techniques and strategies for the effective organization, marketing, and management of events, conventions, and conferences. Students successfully completing this certificate may already be in event management positions or seeking such roles in the public, private or third sectors. Please note: Event Management Graduate Certificate may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Spring December 1 Summer April 1 Fall July 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Banquet Director Banquet Manager Bed and Breakfast Innkeeper Boardinghouse Keeper Cafeteria Director Food Service Director Food Service Manager Food and Beverage Manager Hotel Director Hotel Manager Hotel Operations Manager Innkeeper Lodging Facilities Manager Restaurant General Manager Tavern Operator Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search Rosen College of Hospitality Management programs Graduate Certificates Event Management Certificate University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Event Management Certificate program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Graduate Certificate in Event Management provides knowledge and information that facilitates the effective organization and management of events in the public, private and third sector contexts. The certificate covers the administration of events (e.g. promotion, budgeting, marketing, production, legal issues, customer service, ticketing and concession), the selling and marketing of conventions and conferences, and the organization and administration of mega-events. Events are such an integral component of many industries today that although with a strong focus on tourism and hospitality, the certificate incorporates a number of perspectives with event legacies being a particularly pertinent issue for all coursework. Students learn to synthesize theory and application at the graduate level in order to produce the knowledge base necessary to fully utilize available techniques and strategies for the effective organization, marketing, and management of events, conventions, and conferences. Students successfully completing this certificate may already be in event management positions or seeking such roles in the public, private or third sectors. Please note: Event Management Graduate Certificate may be completed fully online, although not all elective options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. International students (F or J visa) are required to enroll in a full-time course load of 9 credit hours during the fall and spring semesters. Only 3 of the 9 credit hours may be taken in a completely online format. For a detailed listing of enrollment requirements for international students, please visit http://global.ucf.edu/. If you have questions, please consult UCF Global at (407) 823-2337. UCF is not authorized to provide online courses or instruction to students in some states. Refer to State Restrictions for current information. Degree Requirements Required Courses 9 Total Credits Complete all of the following There is no specific course sequence in that a number of sections of each course are offered every year with students able to commence in the Fall, Spring or Summer semester. One course, and sometimes more, are offered each term. Complete the following: HMG6797 - Event Administration (3) HMG6528 - Convention and Conference Sales and Services (3) HMG6756 - Mega-Events (3) Grand Total Credits: 9 Application Requirements Admission is open to those with a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution recognized by UCF. An application to the graduate certificate program and official transcripts must be submitted. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. Materials received after the established deadline may not be considered. Admission to this certificate is competitive; applicants meeting the minimum application requirements are not guaranteed admission to the program. In addition to the above application requirements, all applicants to this certificate program will be required to submit: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Goal statement (this is your opportunity to outline in 500 words why you wish to join the program, what you think you will contribute to the program, and how you feel the program will enhance you both personally and professionally) Résumé. The GRE/GMAT is not required, however, the Admissions Committee may ask for the GRE/GMAT to strengthen a candidate's application package. Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. These documents must be attached to the application. The goal statement should address the applicant's interest in pursuing the certificate program and fully discuss any experience that he or she has had in the field. A minimum of 2 years of full-time post-undergraduate work experience is required for admission. Application Deadlines Event Management Graduate Certificate *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jul 1 Dec 1 Apr 1 International Applicants Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida