Positive Case Reporting - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to COVID-19 Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search COVID-19 Information for... Students Faculty & Staff Guidelines & Protocols Face Coverings on Campus Potential Exposure to Coronavirus COVID-19 Diagnosis Completion of Self-Quarantine / Isolation Campus Prevention Travel Guidelines Event Guidelines Campus Cleaning Protocols COVID-19 Information Coronavirus Symptoms Positive Case Reporting On-Campus Testing COVID-19 Vaccine Information Communications FAQs UH Home COVID-19 COVID-19 Information Positive Case Reporting Positive Case Reporting Total Cases 2609 Since August 23, 2021 As of 05/31/2022 Average new cases reported daily 7.14 Over the past 7 days Displayed are the reported positive COVID-19 cases of University of Houston community members (students, faculty and staff) vs. Cases on campus during the infectious period. Total Positive Cases vs Cases on Campus During Infectious Period* *These are cases identified as being on campus while they were potentially infectious. This page is updated Monday through Friday. Total Positive Cases: Total number of faculty, staff and students who have reported their positive test or diagnosis to UH, regardless of whether they were on campus during the infectious period. Cases on Campus During Infectious Period: A subset of total positive cases, “Cases on Campus During Infectious Period” indicates that the person who tested positive was on campus during the infectious period. Please note that the UH Contact Tracing team is activated upon notice of a positive case who has been on campus during their infectious period in order to assess potential exposures. Members of the UH community identified as close contacts (those within six feet of the individual for longer than 15 minutes within the infectious period) through the contact tracing process will be notified of their potential exposure via email as rapidly as possible. Find the latest information about local cases: Harris County/Houston Dashboard University Response The University of Houston COVID Response plan uses public health guidance and best practices aimed at fostering a culture of care for our community while taking steps to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about the University’s response to a positive COVID-19 case. COVID-19 Report Forms Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus COVID-19 Inquiries Reporting COVID-19 Diagnosis Reporting Potential COVID-19 Exposure Request to Return to Campus University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies