Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'J': J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies Baylor University established the J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies in 1957. The Institute is the oldest and most well established facility exclusively devoted to research in the broad field of church and state and the advancement of religious liberty around the world. Japanese The home page of the Japanese language division of Modern Foreign Languages. Job Descriptions Job Descriptions are important communication tools between a manager and prospective or current employees, ensuring that individuals understand what is expected in the work performance. They serve to clarify and balance responsibilities within a department, as well as to inform the training needs for a particular position. Additionally, they are utilized in the hiring process to help managers define the job and assess candidate qualifications. The information contained in a job description satisfy compliance with federal and state laws and regulation. John F. Baugh Center for Entrepreneurship Independence, self-reliance and self-motivation are common characteristics of entrepreneurs. Baylor's entrepreneurship education program enhances these natural inclinations, as well as provides students with a broad-based understanding of the private sector. Journalism Online MA The degree will equip graduates with courses in leadership, research and creative skills that are mandatory to succeed in the fields of advertising and public relations. Journalism, Department of Baylor journalism students can earn a Bachelor of Arts degree in journalism or public relations through the College of Arts and Sciences, a Bachelor of Business Administration degree in journalism in conjunction with the Hankamer School of Business or a Bachelor of Science degree in journalism education with the School of Education. Judicial Affairs The mission of Judicial Affairs is to foster student learning, development and success by enforcing the University's standards of conduct and community expectations with proactive student programming, individual student conversations, and educational sanctions. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678