Menu Home About About CNDR Leadership Center Structure News & Events CNDR in the News Features & Related Articles The John Q. Trojanowski, MD, PhD Memorial Symposium Research Publications Disease Approach Drug Discovery Resources Biosamples & Data Sharing Training & Funding Opportunities For Patients Giving Close mobile menu Close Menu Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research (CNDR) Home About About CNDR Leadership Center Structure News & Events CNDR in the News Features & Related Articles The John Q. Trojanowski, MD, PhD Memorial Symposium Research Publications Disease Approach Drug Discovery Resources Biosamples & Data Sharing Training & Funding Opportunities For Patients Giving Home Mission The mission of the Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research (CNDR) is to promote and conduct multidisciplinary clinical and basic research to increase the understanding of the causes and mechanisms leading to brain dysfunction and degeneration in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), Lewy body dementia (LBD), Frontotemporal degeneration (FTD), Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), Motor neuron disease (MND), and related disorders that occur increasingly with advancing age. Implicit in the mission of the CNDR are two overarching goals: 1.) Find better ways to cure and treat these disorders, 2. Provide training to the next generation of scientists. “My goal for CNDR is not only to collaborate with researchers at Penn and from institutions across the globe with the mutual goal of finding better ways to diagnose and treat neurodegenerative diseases, but also to inspire and encourage the next generation of scientists on the importance of investigating these disorders that occur more frequently with advancing age.” – Virginia M.-Y. Lee, PhD, Director, CNDR John Q. Trojanowski, MD, PhD | 1946 - 2022 February 8, 2022 We are sad to announce the passing of our colleague and friend, John Q. Trojanowski, who we all regard as a larger than life leader in neurodegenerative disease research. We will miss his probing intellect, limitless enthusiasm and energy, and ever present personality. He passed away peacefully with Virginia, his partner in every aspect of his life, by his side. I know the thoughts of our entire community go out to Virginia and her family. While today is a difficult day for so many of us, we do look forward to finding ways to celebrate his remarkable life in the future. Contribute to the John Q. Trojanowski, M.D., Ph.D. Memorial Fund at the Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research Latest Research Glutamate weighted CEST (gluCEST) imaging for mapping neurometabolism: An update on the state of the art and emerging findings from in vivo applications Wednesday, June 1, 2022 Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. As such, its proper regulation is essential to the healthy function of the human brain, and dysregulation of glutamate metabolism and compartmentalization underlies numerous neurological and neuropsychiatric pathologies. Glutamate-weighted Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer (gluCEST) MRI is one of the only ways to non-invasively observe the relative concentration and spatial distribution of glutamate... Clinical and Radiological Follow-Up of a Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine-Induced Hemichorea-Hemiballismus; Insights Into Mechanisms of Basal Ganglia Dysfunction Wednesday, June 1, 2022 Asymmetric chorea unrelated to structural lesions is typically due to systemic etiologies, such as metabolic, autoimmune, or other inflammatory disorders. This is an editorial commenting on a paper by Batot C, Chea M, Zeidan S, et al. Clinical and radiological follow up of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine-induced hemichorea-hemiballismus. Tremor and Other Hyperkinetic Movements; 2022; 12(1). DOI: https://doi.org/10.5334/tohm.688. A 90-year-old patient is reported who developed hemichorea shortly... Selective motor activation in organelle transport along axons Tuesday, May 31, 2022 The active transport of organelles and other cargos along the axon is required to maintain neuronal health and function, but we are just beginning to understand the complex regulatory mechanisms involved. The molecular motors, cytoplasmic dynein and kinesins, transport cargos along microtubules; this transport is tightly regulated by adaptors and effectors. Here we review our current understanding of motor regulation in axonal transport. We discuss the mechanisms by which regulatory proteins... More News Contact Us Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Maloney Building, 3rd Floor 3600 Spruce Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-2676 215-662-4474 Email Us Directions © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team. | Sitemap