Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Dean of Students Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Dean of Students Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values & Service Staff Office Information Advocacy & Support Academic Support Student Advocacy Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies Dean of Students Leadership Council Student Outreach & Support Frequently Asked Questions A Note About Confidentiality Behavior & Conduct Conduct Assessment and Response Team (CART) Managing Disruptive Student Behavior Report an Incident Student Code of Conduct UH Hazing Policy & Report Resources Respondent's Guide Sexual Misconduct Policy University Hearing Board Preparing for Your University Hearing Commuter Student Services Getting to Campus Spaces and Places Resources Frequently Asked Questions Commuter Assistant Program Contact Information Parent & Family Programs Family Weekend 2021 Siblings Day Alumni Information Publications Resources Coog Moms Resources & Policies Alcohol Policy Alcohol Registration Dean's Award Freedom of Expression/Organized Activity Form Student Handbook University Sponsorship Verification Form Campus Program for Minors FERPA Authorization Form Student Fees Advisory Committee Freedom of Expression Voter Registration UH Home Dean of Students Advocacy & Support Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies Advocacy & Support Academic Support Student Advocacy Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies Dean of Students Leadership Council Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies The Dean of Students Office remains committed to helping students navigate unplanned emergencies. We are excited to share that we are able to process emergency loan requests remotely. Whether you are new to this or have done this process before, please keep reading as this process looks different electronically. Please understand, once approved, funds may not be available for up to 3 business days. Instructions Download the Emergency Loan Request Form and complete the following fields: Name, Student ID (PSID), Address, City, State, Zip, Cell Phone number Indicate if you have been awarded financial aid for the current academic semester Indicate the amount you are seeking, up to $500 Provide responses to question 1 and question 2 Sign and date the form. You may add a signature to a PDF digitally, or you may print out the form and physically sign it before scanning back to your computer. The University requires a "signature" of some sort on your application, whether it is done as an ADOBE Digital Signature/ID or drawn through a drawing tool. Please see the Signature Help link above. If you are using a mobile device (phone, tablet, etc.) please consider downloading the App "Adobe Fill & Sign - Form Filler" to complete your application and add your signature. Download and Complete the Promissory Note. Be sure to complete the following fields: Name Student ID (PSID) Address Telephone number Hours you are currently enrolled in Date of Birth Purpose of Loan (i.e., food, auto repair, rent, internet, etc.) Amount of the loan you are requesting Do not complete boxes outlined in red, staff will do that. You do not need to provide nor send your driver's license information. At the bottom of the page, please sign and date the form by "Student". You may do this digitally (Adobe digital signature), or you may physically sign the form and scan it to your computer. The University requires a "signature" of some sort on your application, whether it is done as an ADOBE Digital Signature/ID or drawn through a drawing tool. Please see the Signature Help link above. Once you have completed both of these forms, you will need to send them to our office, using the following instructions: Log in to your UH email account. Compose an email to DOS@uh.edu and attach both of these completed documents in addition to the supporting documents referenced below. Your loan request MUST COME FROM YOUR UH ACCOUNT. Attach supporting documentation related to your emergency (i.e., billing statement, eviction notice, repair estimate, etc.) Please note, emergency loans CANNOT be granted for credit card bills, cash advances, nor to pay any debt to the University (i.e., tuition, books, parking, etc.). You will also need to submit a copy of your UH Student ID/Cougar Card (front and back). You may scan this, or take a picture of it with your phone and attach those pictures. Please keep & send the loan form and promissory note in PDF format to expedite the processing of your loan. Important information regarding these short-term loans Once submitted to DOS@uh.edu, we will do our best to approve these within 1-2 hours. Please know, we only have staff available between the hours of 9:00 AM and 4:00 PM, Monday - Friday. Requests sent outside of those hours may not be addressed until the next business day. Our DOS team member will complete the loan information on the Promissory Note form after verifying your information in the student database. Once approved, we will send the paperwork onto the Student Financial Services Office for processing and disbursement. Students who receive a refund of financial aid already have a reimbursement system setup. Your loan money will be dispersed in the same fashion. Students who do not have a refund option setup will need to setup a refund option. Students who do not setup a refund option will have a check cut and mailed to their ADDRESS ON FILE with the University. The processing of loans may take up to TWO (2) business days to complete before a student has access to their funds electronically. By submitting this loan request, you understand: The approved loan amount will appear as a debit (charge) on your student account, plus $5.00 for administrative processing. For example, if you are approved for a $500 loan, the charge on your student account would appear as $505.00. Emergency loans are interest-free. Please be advised, students who do not pay the balance of their loan back within 45 days of issuance, may have a hold placed on their account and prevent them from registering for classes if they carry a financial balance/debt forward. In the event a student's account is sent to a Collection Agency, it will be subject to a 25% fee of the total balance owed and will be charged a $50 fee to have University services restored. If you have questions before you submit this loan, please send an email to DOS@uh.edu and we will be happy to assist you. State law requires that you be informed of the following: (1) with few exceptions, you are entitled on request to be informed about the information the University collects about you by use of this form; (2) under sections 552.021 and 552.023 of the Government Code, you are entitled to receive and review the information; and (3) under section 559.004 of the Government Code, you are entitled to have the University correct information about you that is incorrect. Download the Financial Emergency Loan Request Form Financial Emergency Loans The Dean of Students Office will issue financial emergency loans for up to $500. The student will apply for the loan in the Dean of Students Office by completing the contact card and going through the preliminary screening interview. An assistant dean will determine the students' financial eligibility and verify that the student is not on the delinquent list. The student will fill out the loan agreement and the Dean will sign off on the loan. The student will be directed to the Office of Student Business Services, where the student will be issued up to $500 in cash. Once the loan has been processed by the Dean of Students Office, the original copy of the promissory note will be forwarded to the OSF Services on a daily basis. The loan will then be applied to the student's account. Criteria for Eligibility Currently enrolled in at least (6) hours. Have no past due short-term loans or a history of past due short-term loans. Have no outstanding returned checks or a history of returned checks. Have no financial stops. Have no delinquent university debts. What to submit with your Application? Completed Promissory Form Billing statement (related to your emergency request) A copy of your Student I.D. (front and back) Emergency loan money issued by the Dean of Students Office will not be available for the purchase of books, tuition, room, and board. Contact the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid for Special Loan Programs. Frequently Asked Questions Q: When do I apply for the emergency loan? A: You may apply for an emergency loan in the Dean of Students Office anytime after you have paid your bill and have been activated for enrollment. Q: What constitutes an emergency? A: Unexpected medical emergencies or other unforeseen situations. Q: May I have more than $500.00 A: No. The loan is limited to a maximum of $500.00 Q: May I have more than one emergency loan? A: In general, the student is only eligible for one loan per semester. Extenuating circumstances may be considered for one additional loan if specified criteria can be met. Documentation Needed to Verify Emergency Living Expenses - bills and/or past due notification Car Payment, Insurance, Repairs - payment books, statements, estimates, or name and telephone number of party rendering services Medical and Dental - name and telephone number of practitioner, appointment, and/or bill Rent - lease agreement and/or eviction notice Illness and Death of Family Member - medical records, death certificate, obituary, etc. Related Links Emergency Loan Request Form Promissory Note University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies