About Board Constituents Events Resources Contact Blog University of Pennsylvania United Minorities Council About Mission The United Minorities Council (UMC) facilitates interculturalism and promotes social justice at the University of Pennsylvania. We are an undergraduate student coalition of Carribbean/African-American, Asian/Pacific Islander, Latino, and Native American student organizations. History “Culture is not merely a static received tradition but a living process of invention and reinvention”. - Wayne C Glasker (BA, Ph.D., University of Pennsylvania) The UMC is a historically rich student organization, whose vision of lasting cultural pluralism was formed through the unified efforts of African-American, Puerto Rican, Mexican American, other Latino, Japanese American, Chinese American and Korean American student organizations. Meet the Board Current Board Krisna Maddy Chair Krisna Maddyclose Krisna Maddy, also known by her friends as K-Sizzle, is a junior hailing from Miami, Fl. When she's not hiding away from the cold winters she greatly enjoys going on Center City excursions, and finding the best pancakes in Philly. She also spends much of her time doing laboratory research as she pursues her major in biochemistry. Ibukun Olubowale Vice Chair Olubowaleclose Ibukun is a junior in the College. She is excited to serve as the Vice Chair this year! Miru Osuga Political Chair Miru Osugaclose Miru Osuga is a junior in the College. She is excited to serve as the Political Chair. Shamar Waterman Financial Chair Shamar Watermanclose Shamar Waterman is a freshman from North Brunswick, New Jersey. He plans on majoring in Finance and also also interested in Computer Science. I am excited to help promote UMC's very important aganda for unity, while handling the finances for the organization. I enjoy activities like playing basketball and exploring the city in my free time. Imani Solan Communications Chair Imani Solanclose Imani is a sophomore in the Wharton School studying marketing. She is from Montebello, NY. Fun fact: she is a sprinter on the track and field team. This is her second year on board and she is excited to continue to sprad UMC's mission. Evanie Anglade Programming Co-Chair Evanie Angladeclose Evanie is a sophomore in the College majoring in Health & Societies. She is from Short Hills and her go-to fact is that she had a pet ferret in elementary school. The illegality of owning a ferret in New Jersey is a misconception she would liek to put to rest. Even though ferrets are considered "exotic" (an already problematic word), they are perfectly legal keep as pets. Evanie is very excited to serve as one of UMC's Programming Co-Chairs and help relaize the organization's goals of intersectionality and collaboration. Anisa Hasan-Granier Programming Co-Chair Anisa Hasan-Granierclose Anisa is a freshman in the Wharton. She is French-Pakistani and was born in London, but has lived in Washington D.C. for the past thirteen years. Although undecided, she is considering a major in Anthropology. Apart from planning events for UMC, Anisa also loves dancing, traveling, coffee, visiting art museums, and indulging in her guilty pleaure, Bollywood movies. Feyi Makinde Marketing Chair Feyi Makindeclose Feyi is a freshman in the Wharton School. She is excited to serve as the Marketing Chair this year! Ajjit Narayanan Outreach & Admissions Chair Ajjit Narayananclose Ajjit Narayanan is a sophomore in the College planning to major in Urban Studies and Economics. He is from the Bay Area in California but has also lived in Chennai, India. While he isn’t being the Outreach and Admissions Chair, you can find him learning how to cook without setting his kitchen on fire. In his other free time, he also enjoys reading, listening to music, finding dogs to pet and getting hyped for the Warriors success this season. Constituents Black Students League (BSL) Caribbean American Students Association (CASA) Check One? Chinese Students Association (CSA) Grupo Quisqueyano (GQ)) Israel Cultural Committee (ICC) Japan Students Association (JSA) Korean Students Association (KSA) Lebanese Club @ Penn Minority Association of Pre-Health Students (MAPS) Natives at Penn (NAP) Penn African Student Association (PASA) Penn Arab Student Society (PASS) Penn Students for Justice in Palestine (SJP) Penn Persian Society (PPS) Penn Philippine Association (PPA) Penn Taiwanese Society (PTS) Puerto Rican Undergraduate Student Association (PRUSA) Queer People of Color (QPOC) Sangam Society of Asian Scientists & Engineers (SASE) Society for Pre-Law Students of Color South Asian Society (SAS) Vietnamese Student Association (VSA) PennWorld African American Arts Alliance (4A) Penn Pakistan Society Events calendar This calendar is a comprehensive listing of UMC and constituent group events, including the bi-weekly UMC GBMs. Fill out this brief form to add your group's event to the UMC calendar. Resources Funding The Common Funding Application VPUL Undergraduate Guide to Funding Sources Cultural Centers Greenfield Intercultural Center (GIC) La Casa Latina Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Center (LGBT) Makuu: The Black Cultural Resource Center Pan-Asian American Community House (PAACH) Get Involved Questions? Reach us at: unitedminoritiescouncil@gmail.com Like us on Facebook University of Pennsylvania Copyright 2015 United Minorities Council All Rights Reserved. Web Design by Diane Kim