Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Accounting Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Accounting Major Apply Visit Request More Info Accounting Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting Learn to interpret and apply concepts and techniques to measure business activities and report financial data with the Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Accounting in Temple University’s Fox School of Business. This 124-credit undergraduate degree provides students with a broad general education and intensive study for professional careers in public accounting, corporate financial management, consulting, government or nonprofit accounting, and tax accounting. Temple's Accounting program helps prepare students to pursue professional certifications such as the Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Certified Management Accounting (CMA). Students can also continue their studies with a Master of Accountancy degree. Due to rising demand for workers with accounting skill sets, Temple's program prepares graduates to operate on the cutting edge of the ever-changing accounting landscape. Grounded in concepts and theory, the innovative and relevant Accounting Major is designed so that today's accounting students use data analytics in problem solving and decision making. The Accounting BBA helps you build a solid foundation in accounting knowledge, critical thinking, communication skills, technology skills and an ethical awareness necessary in the field, as well as an understanding of overall business globalization. You'll learn how to connect these skills to real-world applications, preparing you to pursue a career in accounting. Coursework also explores topics such as accounting information systems, auditing techniques, cost analysis and control, data analytics in accounting, financial accounting and reporting, and taxation. Graduates of the Accounting BBA program who are interested in continuing their studies may also pursue Temple’s Master of Accountancy. Your Path to CPA Designation All students seeking the CPA designation in Pennsylvania must complete 150 hours of college education (undergraduate or graduate courses, or a combination), including 36 hours in accounting and auditing, business law, finance or tax subjects acceptable to the Pennsylvania State Board of Accountancy. Pennsylvania also conforms to the national standard of one year of public accounting experience—in addition to the successful completion of the CPA Exam—before the granting of a CPA license. Learn more about how Temple’s Master of Accountancy prepares you to attain your CPA. Classes & Curriculum Courses you may take as part of your studies within the Accounting Major curriculum include Auditing, Cost Accounting, Federal Taxes on Income and Intermediate Accounting I and II. Learn more about Accounting Major coursework. Related Graduate Degrees Master of Accountancy Concentrations You can focus on Accounting or you can take one of the following concentrations. Data Analytics Gain the skills necessary to become a data-competent professional in a changing accounting landscape. Learn how to navigate big data, complex industry problems and technological programs. Develop skills in problem-solving, data management, data analysis, creating visualizations and communicating insights. Online BBA Program The Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting is available as an Online BBA degree program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contacts For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to Accounting students in the Fox School of Business. Ascend is a student organization that works to develop and foster leadership skills in Asian and Pacific Islander students interested in pursuing a career in accounting and finance. The Ambler Accounting Professional Society is an academic and professional chapter at Temple University’s Ambler campus that aims to give students the opportunity to participate in a variety of professional and community service events, and network with accounting and finance professionals. Beta Alpha Psi is a national scholastic fraternity for financial information students, promoting advancement and development in the fields of accounting, finance and information systems. Members have the opportunity to engage in a supportive network of finance professionals, alumni and recruiters. The Fox Accounting Association introduces finance-focused students to industry experts and some of the top firms in the world. Student members have access to internships and other professional opportunities, including panels, weekly service events and socials. The Institute of Management Accountants is an accounting and finance organization whose goal is to promote various industry/corporate roles to students within the professional field of accounting/finance. They also promote the Certified Management Accountant certification. The National Association of Black Accountants seeks to aid Black students looking to begin careers in accounting, finance and other business-related fields by conducting professional development workshops and hosting speaker/company meetings and networking events. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-ACCT-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Accounting Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info