Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Capstone Menu Main Nav Capstone Capstone Back Back Close About Overview Background Courses Overview Previous Seminars Faculty and Syllabi Student Comments Enrollment Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome to the Capstone Program We hope you’ll discover why so many students find Capstone a dynamic and meaningful conclusion to their college experience. The Capstone Program at Boston College is a unique opportunity for seniors and second-semester juniors to review their educations and to preview their upcoming long-term commitments in life. Unlike Capstone courses at most other schools, the BC Capstone does not serve as a final course in one’s major. Instead, we focus on the student’s personal development—in relationships, society, academics, spirituality, career, and personal skills. As you visit our web site you’ll find a rich variety of courses that make up Capstone. You will meet the faculty—about 25 of us from 20 different departments and offices, including deans, administrators, and program directors. New faculty join us every year. The ground rules for Capstone are simple: you take it as a senior or second-semester junior. You take only one before graduation. You cannot take any Capstone class pass/fail; you must take it for a grade. Courses are kept small to provide great discussions. Some courses may serve as electives for some majors. Questions? Contact the Director: Fr. James M. Weiss james.weiss@bc.edu 617-552-3897 Related Links Cornerstone The Courage to Know Intersections Back To Top Back To Top Contact the Director Capstone Fr. James M. Weiss (617) 552-3897 james.weiss@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College