Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » Intramural Sports » Intramural Sports Rules » Spikeball Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Spikeball Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Spikeball Rules Any intramural policies not mentioned here may be found in the Intramural Handbook. Unless specifically mentioned below, intramural spikeball play is governed by official Spikeball rules. By participating in Intramural Sports, the participant agrees to abide by all Intramural rules and policies. 1. Assumption of Risk right arrow down arrow You may suffer physical and/or mental injury from participating in Intramural Sports. There are certain risks of injury that are inherent to participation in sports and recreational activities. These types of injuries may be minor or serious and may result from the actions or inactions of themselves or others. By choosing to participate in Intramural Sports, you do so at your own risk. It is understood that most activities require a certain level of fitness and health, and that each person has a different capacity for participating in these activities. Participants of Intramural Sports are highly encouraged to have a physical examination and procure health insurance prior to play. UC Campus Recreation does not provide health insurance. Intramural Supervisors undergo concussion recognition training. In the instance a participant is exhibiting any signs or symptoms of a concussion as a result of a head injury sustained during intramural play, he or she will be removed from the activity. This individual must provide a physician’s note clearing the individual to play by a specific date. This note may be e-mailed to intramural@uc.edu or faxed to 513-556-0601. 2. Eligibility right arrow down arrow 2.1 To be eligible for intramural sports, each player must possess an active membership to the University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center AND be a current University of Cincinnati student (enrolled in at least one (1) credit hour), faculty, or staff member. 2.1.1 Uptown, full time UC students receive a Campus Recreation membership through full payment of the Campus Life fee. All other populations will need to purchase a membership in order to be eligible to play. 3. Equipment right arrow down arrow 3.1 Jewelry is prohibited across all intramural sports. This includes, but is not limited to, piercings, necklaces, rings, wrist fitness trackers, watches, and bracelets. 3.2 Medical jewelry is allowed but must be taped down. 3.3 Billed hats are prohibited in all sports except softball. 3.4 Athletic clothing and footwear is required. Prohibited items include, but is not limited to: jeans, cargo pants/shorts, skirts, loafers, open-toed shoes, and boots. Indoor sports require non-marking footwear. For outdoor field sports, detachable or metal cleats are prohibited. 3.5 Any casts, braces, or other protective equipment must be padded and secure. 3.6 Campus Recreation will provide spikeball sets and spikeballs. 4. Teams, Players, and Rosters right arrow down arrow 4.1 Two players must be present to start a match. 4.2 A team may have up to six players on its' roster. Players will be given a contact list with player e-mail addresses and phone numbers. 4.3 A coed team must have one male and one female player on the court. 5. Substitutions right arrow down arrow 5.1 Players may substitute inbetween points. There is no limit for substitutions. 5.1.1 In coed games, substitutes must be of the same gender. 6. Game Timing and Timeouts right arrow down arrow 6.1 Match format will be best two out of three sets. 6.2 Each set will be played to 21, with a hard cap of 25. Sets must be won by two points, except if the score is 24-24. 6.3 Prior to set one, one player from each team will participate in a game of Rock, Paper, Scissors. The winner gets to choose if they would like serve, receive, or choose the starting positions. The loser will determine serve, receive, or starting positions in set two. 6.3.1 If the game goes to three sets, one player from each team will participate in another game of Rock, Paper, Scissors. The winner gets to choose if they would like serve, receive, or choose the starting positions for set three. 6.4 Games are untimed, and there are no time outs. 6.5 Games are rally scoring, meaning points can be won by the serving or receiving team. 7. Self-Officiated right arrow down arrow 7.1 Matches are self-officiated and self-scored. Participants are expected to know the rules prior to arrival. 7.2 The non-offending team is responsible for calling fouls/faults/lets/hinders in the case the offending team does not. 7.3 If you have any match or sportsmanship issues, please find the Intramural Supervisor on Duty. However, they are not responsible for judgment/officiating calls during the game. 8. Serving right arrow down arrow 8.1 Positioning 8.1.1 All players except the receving must begin the point at least six feet from the net. The receiver may stand at any desired distance. 8.1.2 All players except the receiving player must begin the point at least six feet from the net. The receiver may stand at any desired distance. 8.1.3 The receiving team sets their position first. The server stands 180 degrees across from the designated receiver, the only player allowed to field the serve. 8.2 Once the server strikes the ball, players may go anywhere they choose. 8.3 If the receiving team wins the point, the next designated player serves according to the initial sequence. Otherwise, the server switches places with their partner and serves to the other receiving team member. 8.4 Service Characteristics 8.4.1 Serves may be struck with any amount of force. Short serves are allowed. 8.4.2 Faults: Violation of any of the following rules is a fault. 8.4.2.1 The server must toss the ball upward at least four inches prior to serving. 8.4.2.2 Once the ball is tossed upwards, the server must hit it. Dropping, catching, or swinging (and missing) a toss all count as a fault. 8.4.2.3 A serve must be struck. It cannot be thrown or carried. 8.4.2.4 A serve must be struck. It cannot be thrown or carried. 8.4.3 The receiving team must call a fault prior to their second contact. Otherwise, play continues. 8.5 Execution of the Serve 8.5.1 Before serving, the server sets their feet and calls the score (serving team's score first) and ensures the receiving team is ready. 8.5.2 The receiver may move from their position once the server has done the actions in the previous item. 8.5.3 If the server does not call the score, calls the wrong score, or calls the score while serving, the receiving team can call for a replay prior to their second touch. 8.6 During a serve, if the ball takes an unpredictable bounce (pocket) or is too high, the receiver must call "let" before their second contact. The serving team has one more try to produce a clean serve. If they fail, the receiving team wins the point. If the receiver does not call "let," continue play. 9. Rallies right arrow down arrow 9.1 The rally ends, and a point is awarded when any of the following occur: 9.1.1 The ball contacts the ground or otherwise isn't returned on to the net within three touches. 9.1.2 The ball is hit directly into the rim at any time, unless it's the first serve (fault). 9.1.3 The ball bounces and falls back onto the net or rim. 9.1.4 The ball clearly rolls across the net. 9.2 Touches must alternate between teammates. Consecutive touches by one player result in the other team winning the point. 9.3 The ball must be contacted cleanly and not caught, lifted, or thrown. 9.4 Players may not hit the ball with two hands, even if placed together as in volleyball. 9.5 Players may use any individual part of their body to hit the ball. 9.6 After the serve, any unusual bounce (pocket) that does not contact the rim is legal and playable. 9.7 A shot which lands on the net, rolls into the rim and then off the net (roll-up) is played as a pocket, not a direct rim hit. 9.8 If teams cannot determine the legality of a hit, replay the point. 10. Infractions/Hinders right arrow down arrow 10.1 Remember, player safety is paramount. 10.2 Defending players must make an effort to not impedge the opposing team's possesion or play on the ball. 10.3 If you have any match or sportsmanship issues, please find the Intramural Supervisor on Duty. However, they are not responsible for judgment/officiating calls during the game. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top