Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Meet some of Clemson’s Post-Doctoral Students Dr. Maiti is currently a postdoctoral researcher in the department of chemistry in the group of Prof. Dev P. Arya (since August 2016). His research involves the synthesis and characterization of aminosugar based antibiotics and their studies towards antibacterial activities. He completed his Ph.D in organic chemistry focusing on oligosaccharides in June 2016, under the guidance of Prof. Narayanswamy Jayaraman from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. He is a council member of the CUPDA. Dr. Steven Pellizzeri graduated with his Ph.D. in chemistry from Syracuse University under the advisement of Prof. Jon Zubieta. His research involved the solid-state simulation of the structure and vibrational modes of organic, hybrid organometallic and inorganic species. Following his time at Syracuse, Dr. Pellizzeri started work as a postdoctoral research fellow in the group of Prof. Rachel Getman in November 2014. His research involves the search for potential shale gas conversion catalysts using computational catalysis screening tools and microkinetic modeling. He currently serves as the vice-president of the CUPDA. Dr. Tiffany Pellizzeri is pictured with the chemistry department’s new Bruker D8 Venture Photon 100 single-crystal diffractometer which she uses to identify the single-crystal products she synthesizes in the lab. Dr. Pellizzeri graduated with her Ph.D. in chemistry under the advisement of Prof. Jon Zubieta at Syracuse University. Her dissertation focused on the hydrothermal synthesis of metal-organic framework materials utilizing diphosphonate ligands. Following her time at Syracuse, she became a research associate in the group of Prof. Joseph Kolis in May 2015. Her research utilizes high-temperature and high-pressure hydrothermal synthesis to synthesize transition metal vanadate materials for potential magnetic applications. She currently serves as the secretary of the CUPDA. Dr. Choudhury’s research at Dr. Olga Kuksenok’s team at Materials Science and Engineering Department focuses on developing multiscale computational models to design highly thermostable copolymer-enzyme complexes for a variety of applications. Enzymes are environmentally friendly and safe catalysts in chemical reactions. By using molecular dynamic simulations, the research team demonstrate that via conjugating enzymes with copolymers with tailored architectures it is possible to dramatically improve their thermal stability well beyond that of native enzymes Dr. Sanjeewa started to work as a university research fellow under the supervision of Dr. Joseph Kolis in 2014. His research focuses on (I) Crystal growth and spectroscopy of high quality single crystals of the important class of doped lanthanide sesquioxides Ln2O3 (Ln-Lu, Sc, Y) for high energy laser applications. (II) Synthesis of novel ferroelectric materials and their property characterization using neutron scattering. Dr. Lukubira is a true Tiger, he graduated with a Ph.D. in chemical engineering from Clemson University with research in biodegradable plastics. He is currently a postdoctoral research associate in Prof. Amod Ogale’s group at Clemson University. His research focuses on (i) rheology and processing of mesophase pitches into high performance carbon fibers, and (ii) thermoplastic matrix composites reinforced with carbon fibers. He currently serves as the treasurer of the CUPDA. Dr. Sur graduated from the University of Delhi in 2015. His Ph.D. degree was supervised by Prof. Vibha Tandon. He joined Clemson University as a postdoctoral research associate in Prof. Dev P Arya’s group in 2015 and his research involves the synthesis of novel aminoglycosides peptide conjugates utilizing a solid phase approach. In addition, he also tests the biological interactions between novel aminoglycosides with E.coli and human RNA and investigates the molecular dynamics of complex biomolecules. He is a council member of the CUPDA. Dr. Bin San Chan, social officer of the CUPDA and post-doc representative in the Clemson Postdoctoral Advisory Committee. This photo was taken when the CUPDA brought the post-docs out of the laboratories and to Memorial Stadium for an exciting Death Valley experience. We were lucky to receive discounts tickets for a football game supported by Clemson Athletics. Dr. Chan loves her CUPDA t-shirt and really admires our football team. Dr. Chan’s postdoctoral research with Dr. Andrew Mount focuses on how oysters make their shells and the microscopic beauty behind this essential process of shellfish and other marine life. Dr. Chan uses microscopes at work, and being a proud Hong Kong lady, she takes many photographs everywhere she goes Home Postdoc Resources Faculty and Staff Resources News and Events Contact Us Related Links Research at Clemson Colleges, Schools and Departments Research and Graduate Studies Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram