COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Barton School Student Success Center Home Section Menu Business Home Degree Requirements & Business Majors Business Minors Business Software Courses Contact Us Current Business Students Non-Business Students Exception Guidelines Transferring to Business Undecided Business Majors Scheduling Appointments Online How to Submit an Application for Degree (AFD) Business Degree Completion Plans Business Transfer Guides Business Degree Completion Plans Academic advising is an essential element of a student's undergraduate experience at Wichita State University and our advisors in the Barton School Student Success Center strive to develop and maintain relationships with our students throughout their academic career at WSU. Through that relationship, our advisors work together with students individually to assist them in identifying & clarifying their life & career goals and developing a course of study that will help them realize those goals. Prospective Students Business Degrees Business Scholarships Barton School Student Success Center Office Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Please call (316) 978-3203, option 2 for questions concerning advising. Please e-mail questions to business.advisor@wichita.edu -Barton School Student Success Center staff / Clinton Hall Basement, Rm 008. Appointments are scheduled October-December and March-August. Call-in/Walk-in advising is available August-October, and January-March. Contact an Advisor Scheduling Appointments Online Advising FAQ Adjusting to Remote Learning Self Care and Emergency Assistance Resources Management 681 and Non-Business Student Request Forms Management 681 Non-Business Students Transferring to WSU? Dual Advising is for students currently enrolled at a community college and plan to transfer to Wichita State University. Dual advising allows students planning to transfer to WSU to develop a plan of study, avoid unnecessary enrollment duplication and receive up-to-date information on admission deadlines, scholarships and curriculum changes. If you are planning to attend Wichita State University, you should start working with an academic advisor in the Barton School Student Success Center to get a head start on learning about available resources on campus. To get started, all you need is to complete the Dual Advising Form. » See how your credits will transfer » Learn the value of our AACSB Accreditation » Learn about our new Business Building » Transfer Students Steps to Enroll » More on Transferring to WSU Current Barton School of Business Students Everything Current WSU Students need in one place. Find it all here from A to Z. Seniors and Graduation You have reached your final year at WSU. Find everything you need to know to make your last year in the Barton School of Business a successful one. More from Barton School of Business Study Abroad Professional Edge Business Student Resources Transferring Courses From Other Universities Grads & Seniors Business Student Organizations Co-op & Internships Business Scholarships Follow Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©