Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu University of Memphis Barbara K. Lipman Early Learning and Research Center About Programs Apply Parents Research UofM Students Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Enroll your child in Lipman ELRC Submit your application to reserve your child's spot Work with the ELRC Explore full-time and student employment opportunities Educational Programs for ages 2 to 5 Explore our program options to find the best fit for your child Conducting Research within the ELRC Learn more about conducting research within University Schools PreviousNext Take Action Application Fees Give to Lipman ELRC Follow Us Online Facebook Home ELRC Home to UofM's Youngest Tigers The UofM Barbara K. Lipman Early Learning & Research Center is a laboratory preschool affiliated with the University of Memphis which offers a unique learning environment, a nurturing place that encourages children to explore their own active learning abilities. Here they are guided by specially trained teachers and are supported by community. Here children engage in creative questioning and problem-solving. They learn to understand and share with each other. They form interpersonal communication skills. And they discover and expand their world through a truly interactive environment. Learning, teaching, growing. Here children get the wings they need to go further and achieve a higher success in life's many lessons to come. Apply Now > Learn more about our Pre-K through Middle laboratory schools > COVID-19 Guidelines In accordance with the most current CDC recommendations, University Schools has developed COVID guidelines for the 2021-2022 school year. This is a living document that will be monitored and re-evaluated as deemed necessary based on CDC, Shelby County Health Department, State of Tennessee, University of Memphis guidelines and ELRC transmission rates. Parents and stakeholders will be notified of any changes to this policy. In light of local conditions and in accordance with the most recent CDC recommendations, University Schools will begin the school year requiring all faculty, staff, students, and guests to wear masks while on school grounds regardless of vaccination status. Download the complete COVID-19 Guidelines > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.