Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Funding The Department of Sociology through the Graduate School offers incoming doctoral students five years of guaranteed financial support, including a stipend and health and dental insurance subsidies, through mechanisms including teaching and research assistantships, fellowships, and traineeships. Students in good standing normally receive a fellowship in the first year of study and for one year after advancing to doctoral candidacy. The course of study for the sociology PhD is designed to be completed in five years and students are encouraged to do so. Students who need additional time and extend their course of study beyond five years must remain in good standing and will be encouraged to secure external funding. Additional Resources Graduate School Student Resources Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top