Skip to main content Search form Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Search Menu Information For Alumni Search You are here Home Alumni Benefits and Services Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Stay Connected Alumni Board News & Events Alumni Giving Benefits and Services Contact Us Stay Connected Alumni Board News & Events Alumni Giving Benefits and Services Contact Us Stay Connected Alumni Board News & Events Alumni Giving Benefits and Services Contact Us Benefits and Services To participate in all the new benefits and resources that await you as an alum, please make sure your information is up-to-date. It's easy to join and start connecting with Columbia's worldwide network. University Resources Email Forwarding Columbia University offers email forwarding, which allows you to maintain your student email address or a free alumni email address ("you"@caa.columbia.edu). Library Privileges and Online Resources Alumni receive reading and borrowing privileges at campus libraries, as well as access to a variety of electronic and online resources, including online newspapers, magazines, and medical journals. Borrowing fees apply. Requesting a Transcript Columbia University alumni can request a transcript in person or by mail. Course Auditing Alumni are welcome to audit courses at the Mailman School by enrolling as non-degree students and paying normal course fees. Alumni are required to submit a brief application packet as part of the enrollment process. Application for readmission must be submitted by the following dates: Semester of Enrollment Deadline Spring (October) October 15 Summer (May) May 15 Fall (July) July 15 For more information, email lm31 [at] columbia.edu (Lillian Morales) or call 212-305-8690. Computer Discounts Columbia Alumni Association, in partnership with GovConnection, Inc., now offers alumni discounted computers and peripherals. Career Services The Office of Career Services provides graduates with a host of resources, including: one-on-one counseling, resume assistance, participation in career education workshops, alumni panels, employer information sessions, and career day events, access to both local and national online public health job search engines, and more. Columbia Career Connection This university-wide online network offers all Columbia University graduates the opportunity to connect with over 21,000 alumni via LinkedIn, as well as access job boards and a variety of other career resources. Learn more. Arts and Recreation CAA Arts Access, a program of the Columbia Alumni Association (CAA), Arts Access is a hub — for experiences, for insider access, for discovery. We connect artists, scholars, producers, and audiences through dynamic programs and resources. Membership is free and open to all alumni. Join CAA Arts Access online. Visit alumniarts.columbia.edu to learn more. Fitness Facilities Alumni and their families are eligible for membership at the Dodge Physical Fitness Center and the Bard Athletic Club. Alumni also have access to the Dick Savitt Tennis Center at 218th Street and Broadway. For more information, call 212-854-2546. (Membership fees apply.) Join Columbia University Alumni Clubs Graduates of the School can participate in over 30 national alumni clubs and 33 international clubs. Mailman School alumni are encouraged to join their local Columbia club and organize public health-specific events through the partnership of this network and the Office of Alumni Affairs. Columbia University Club of New York Located at 15 West 43rd Street, in the heart of Midtown Manhattan, the Columbia Club offers membership to all University alumni. The Club features 50 recently renovated overnight rooms, a fully-equipped athletic facility with new squash courts, a business center, a bar and grill, a lounge and a library with over 10,000 volumes. The Club hosts several social activities every month, including networking opportunities, lectures, discussions, and wine tastings. (Membership fees apply.) More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Bench-to-Bedside: A Dream or Reality?Apr 13 2022 Historically Redlined Neighborhoods Burdened by Excess Oil and Gas WellsApr 13 2022 Dean Linda P. Fried Awarded Kober Medal for Scientific and Mentorship AchievementsApr 11 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers