TAP - Transfer Advising Program - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Transfer Advising Program Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Transfer Advising Program UH Home Provost Transfer Advising Program Transfer Advising Program Eight Steps to Transferring Who to Contact for Help? Not Sure What to Major in? Make an Appointment Visit Us at Transfer Centers Joint Admissions Contact Us Transfer Advising Program (TAP) transferadvising@uh.edu Phone: 832.842.4632 N111 Cougar Village 1 Houston, TX 77204 TAP Advising Syllabus Transfer Advising Program (TAP) × We apologize for the inconvenience: The Transfer Advising Program is only open for walk-in visits on Mondays and Fridays from 8am -4pm. Thank you. The Transfer Advising Program assists in providing information for future transfer students who are interested in completing a Bachelor's degree at the University of Houston. We highly encourage prospective students to connect with a Transfer Advisor before applying for admission to ensure all requirements will be met for their intended major. If you are a former, current, or recently admitted student, please visit the Who to Contact for Help page for additional information. I'm a Future Student I'm a Former, Current, or Recently Admitted Student Review the calendar below for a list of dates/times the TAP Office will be closed or unavailable due to special events. Location and Directions The TAP Office is located in N111, Cougar Village 1, and open from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday. Parking Map and Directions: Please park at the Welcome Center, then follow this map to the Transfer Advising office at N111 Cougar Village 1. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies