Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia University Information Technology Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Resources For I Want To Services Security and Privacy About Students Alumni Faculty Retirees Researchers Visitors Staff Access My Email Log in to LionMail Log in to ADCU Outlook Web App Log in to CUIMC Email Check CUIT Service Alerts Connect to Columbia WiFi Contact the CUIT Service Desk Download Software Log in to CourseWorks Manage My University ID (UNI) Activate My UNI or Email Change My Password Manage My Duo MFA Account Print on Campus Use Zoom View Computer and System Recommendations Visit the ServiceNow Customer Portal Academic Systems Accounts and Access Administrative Systems Cloud Services Computer Lab and Classroom Technologies Email and Calendar Endpoint Device Technologies IT Professional Services Network and Wireless Research Services Security and Risk Management Servers, Backup and Storage Service Desk Software and Apps Telephony and Communications Services Web Services Anti-malware CUIT Security Downloads Data Security Guidelines for International Travel Get Started with Computer Security at Columbia General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Handling Personally Identifying Information Keep Your Operating System Up To Date Phishing: Recognize and Report Secure Resources for Systems Administrators Using Strong Passwords Staff Directory and Org. Chart Senior Leadership Departments Locations IT Policies and Strategies IT Partners at the University Careers Columbia University Information Technology You are here: Home Security and Privacy Phishing: Recognize and Report Phishing: Recognize and Report Phishing is a type of email scam where the attacker sends emails that impersonate a company (often financial), a service desk, an employer, or someone that you already know and trust. The goal is to: steal personal information by tricking you into entering your username and password, PIN, or other sensitive information. install malware or viruses on your computer that can record keystrokes, capture saved or stored information, or destroy files. For example, Columbia students, faculty and staff may receive emails that appear to come from trusted sources like "CUIT Service Desk," "MyColumbia," or "President Bollinger," with a link to a website where you are asked to enter your username and password to "verify your account" (see "How to spot a fake Columbia CAS login page," below.) How to Handle a Phishing Message: 1. Identify the email as suspicious. Phishing messages usually have one or more of the following: Spelling or grammatical errors. These should be immediate red flags. Heightened urgency. Phishing attempts often try to get you to respond before you have a chance to think. Generic signatures. A signature line with "Service Desk" or "Administration" rather than a University official whose name you can verify. Requests for personal information. A request for personal information from contacts you did not initiate. 2. If you think it's suspicious, report it: Report the email to [email protected] with full headers (see "How to report a suspicious email to [email protected]," below) so the CUIT Cybersecurity team can investigate. CUIMC Users: If the suspicious email was sent to a @cumc.columbia.edu email address, please send the phishing attempt with full headers to [email protected]. If in doubt, contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919. (CUIMC Users: 212-305-4357, option 5.) 3. If you already clicked on a phishing link or have entered your information on a suspicious site: Change your password at Manage My UNI immediately. (CUIMC Users should update with myPassword). Contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919. CUIMC Users: 212-305-4357, option 5.) How to report a suspicious email to [email protected] Expand all Collapse all LionMail and Gmail Updated June 15, 2020 A 45-second how-to video for LionMail/Gmail also is available to demonstrate how to report phishing. Open the suspicious message you'd like to report. Click the three dots in the upper-right corner of the message to see your options. Click Show Original. A new window (or tab) opens with the raw message, including the complete header. Click Download Original. Address an email to [email protected]. Attach the downloaded .EML file to your email and click Send. Apple Mail Updated June 15, 2020 A 45-second how-to video for Apple Mail also is available to demonstrate how to report phishing. Select the suspicious email that you would like to forward. Select File from the menu pane, then click Save As. Choose a location for the file (often your desktop), and change the format to Raw Message Source. Click Save. Address an email to [email protected]. Attach the downloaded .EML file to your email. Click Send. Microsoft Outlook (including Outlook Web App "OWA") Updated June 15, 2020 1. Double-click on the message you want to forward. 2. Click on the Message Tab, and find the Respond section. 3. Expand the More Respond Actions drop-down menu, and click Forward as Attachment. 4. Send the message (with attachment) to [email protected]. Office 365 Updated June 15, 2020 A 45-second how-to video for Office 365 also is available to demonstrate how to report phishing. 1. Click the New Message Button. 2. Drag the email you want to forward into the body of the blank message (this message will be added as an attachment). 3. Send the email (with attachment) to [email protected]. How to spot a fake Columbia CAS login page The genuine CAS login page has a URL that begins with https://cas.columbia.edu (or the lock symbol followed by cas.columbia.edu). If you have doubts about the URL, check with the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919 before you enter your UNI and password. If you think you have clicked a phishing link or have accidentally entered your login information on a suspicious site, please change your password immediately, then contact the CUIT Service Desk at 212-854-1919. For additional information on how to recognize and protect yourself from phishing attacks, please visit: Spam and Phishing Filtering for Email Manage Your UNI Account Anti-phishing working group How to Identify Legitimate Websites Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Administrative OfficesStudebaker Building, 5th & 6th Floors, 615 West 131st Street · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University Information Technology (CUIT) Walk-in Center202 Philosophy Hall, 1150 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-1919 Contact Us [email protected] Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close