Skip to main content Visit Harvard.edu Covid-19 Information Testing & Tracing Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Guidance Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs Keep Harvard Healthy Campus Access For Students For Faculty, Staff, and Researchers For Visitors School & Program Information Event Guidance Health & Wellbeing Testing & Tracing Results Dashboard Weekly Test History Understanding Test Results Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Travel Guidance Post-Travel COVID Testing Policy Vaccine Information Verify Your Vaccination & Booster Updates & Messages FAQs As the Harvard community continues to manage the impact of COVID-19, it’s imperative that we work together to stop the spread. Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) has established processes for quarantine and isolation based on the most recent guidance from the CDC and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. Case support and isolation procedures are used for people with confirmed positive cases of COVID-19. Close contact notification and quarantine procedures are used for exposed close contacts of confirmed cases of COVID-19. Review the procedures and resources below to help keep Harvard healthy. Positive case support Notifying close contacts Isolation requirements Exposure guidance and quarantine requirements Additional resources: exposure, quarantine, and isolation Positive case support and notifying close contacts COVID-positive case support For individuals who test positive for COVID-19 either through Harvard’s testing program or who report via Crimson Clear a positive test result from outside of Harvard’s testing program, the HUHS contact tracer will: Send you an intake email containing your isolation requirements and resources, including contact information if you have questions or concerns and an email template to notify your close contacts Ask you to identify and notify your close contacts from your infectious time period (48 hours prior to your test kit activation date) and provide them with HUHS’ exposure guidance as soon as possible. See the “Notifying close contacts” section below. Educate, support, and identify your needs and barriers to self-isolation Serve as a resource if you have questions throughout your isolation Ensure your confidentiality Email you at the end of your isolation to discharge you and provide you with return to work/school clearance and instructions Learn more about isolation requirements. Notifying close contacts Once COVID-positive individuals have begun their isolation, their next step is to identify and notify their close contacts as soon as possible. With your help, your close contacts can be made aware of their exposure so they can take steps to test, mask, monitor for symptoms, and quarantine if applicable. Think back to your infectious period: This is considered the 48 hours prior to your test kit activation date. A close contact is someone who was within 6 feet of you indoors for 15 minutes or more during a 24-hour period. If they don’t meet all these criteria, they are not considered a close contact and you do not need to notify them. If they do meet all the criteria, they are a true close contact. You should notify them of their exposure. Close contacts should review the exposure guidance and quarantine requirements, determine which category is most appropriate for their next steps based on their own vaccination and booster status, and follow the applicable guidance to help decrease the risk of spreading COVID-19. HUHS contact tracers are an available resource to close contacts to: Educate, support, and identify close contacts’ needs and barriers to self-quarantine, if applicable Connect and refer close contacts to additional resources Refer close contacts to additional testing as appropriate Provide close contacts with return to work/school clearance and instructions (only if requested) Learn more about exposure guidance and quarantine requirements. Isolation requirements After a positive test result for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 through Harvard’s testing program or report a positive outside test result, HUHS will contact you about your isolation requirements via your Harvard email. See the “isolation protocols” section below for more information. If you live on campus, your School will also provide direction on local isolation procedures. After you receive your positive test result, it’s incredibly important to minimize your movement and exposure to others by returning or staying home and wearing a well-fitting mask at all times if in the presence of other household members. If you live off campus and receive a positive test result, do not come to campus for any reason. If you receive a positive result while you are on campus for the day, you should gather your belongings and go home immediately to isolate. You should inform anyone with a need to know (e.g. supervisor). An HUHS contact tracer will contact you via email about next steps. If you test positive outside of Harvard’s testing program, you should report your positive result to HUHS through Crimson Clear. If your positive result was on an outside antigen or PCR test, you should begin isolation even before the HUHS Contact Tracing team emails you. See the “Isolation protocols” section below for more information. Isolation protocols Isolation lasts a minimum of 5 days but might be longer depending on the specifics of your case. An HUHS Contact Tracer will be in contact via your Harvard email with additional guidance. If you’re in isolation, you need to limit contact with others and stay home (or go to isolation housing, if applicable) until HUHS releases you. If you have no symptoms or your symptoms are resolving and you have been fever-free for more than 24 hours, HUHS will discharge you from isolation on day 6. For the continued safety of the community, you must wear a mask at all times when leaving your home or interacting with others; this means no dining with others and no other mask-free activities until after day 10. If on day 5 or later you are still experiencing significant respiratory symptoms, you continue to have a fever, or any other symptoms have not improved, then you must continue to isolate. HUHS will email you on your discharge day with next steps. If you are a member of Harvard’s health care or child care workforce and you test positive for COVID-19, you will not be able to return to your workplace until after 10 days of isolation or 5 days of isolation plus a negative COVID-19 test result. Contact your manager or clinic director for more information. If you live on campus, during your isolation period, you’ll stay in your room or, in limited circumstances, move to temporary space, for the duration of your isolation (with the exception of evacuating the building for a life-threatening emergency). Your School representative will share procedures for cleaning your room and bathroom upon ending isolation. If you live off campus, during your isolation period, you will not be cleared to come to campus. At the end of your isolation period, the HUHS contact tracing team will notify you and your School/Unit representative of your release date and time. You will be exempted from Harvard’s testing program and will not need to test for approximately 90 days (unless otherwise directed by HUHS or your healthcare provider). Your contact tracer will inform you of the date you should restart testing. For more information, review HUHS’s FAQs on Positive Test Results and Isolation. Support services during isolation Although you’ll be in isolation, you’re not alone. Harvard administrators have established a multi-layered system to support you. Most symptoms of COVID-19 can be managed with Tylenol or Motrin, rest, and fluids, but some people experience severe symptoms. If you are experiencing severe symptoms (e.g. trouble breathing; persistent pain or pressure in the chest; new confusion; inability to wake or stay awake; or pale/gray/blue-colored skin, lips, or nail beds depending on skin tone), call 9-1-1 or go to your nearest emergency room. HUHS will contact you with resources on how to care for yourself. If you live in a School-operated residence hall, you will receive guidance on dining services for your specific location. For students: A School representative will contact you regarding academic support, the specifics for supporting your isolation period, and to address any other needed supports. For faculty, staff, and researchers: Review Harvard HR’s Covid-19 policy on use of sick time and dependent care sick time. If you are able to teach or work, you will need to do so remotely. Leadership in your School or unit will follow up with you and discuss options. For more information, review HUHS’s FAQs on Positive Test Results and Isolation. Exposure guidance and quarantine requirements After a potential exposure to COVID-19 Determine if you meet all 4 criteria of a close contact: Exposed to someone confirmed to be infected (either notified by individual who tested positive via PCR test or a contact tracer told them to treat themselves as if they had a positive PCR test), and Interaction was indoors, and Interaction was close—less than 6 feet away, and Interaction lasted at least 15 minutes over a 24-hour period If you do not meet all 4 criteria, you are not considered a close contact. No further action is needed. You should continue to practice health and safety measures. If you do meet all 4 criteria, you are considered a close contact. Your quarantine requirements depend on your vaccination and booster status. Additional requirements to return to work after a potential exposure apply to Harvard’s health care and campus child care workforce. See the applicable “Quarantine protocols” section below for your next steps. Quarantine protocols: Harvard community members The following quarantine information applies to the general Harvard community (non-health care and non-child care center staff). It’s also available as a PDF; see If you think you were exposed to COVID-19. Review the 2 categories below to determine your requirements and next steps. Category 1: Quarantine not required You do not have to quarantine, and you may return to work/school with on campus if you: have been boosted, or completed the primary series of a 2-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine within the last 5 months, or completed the primary series of a single-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine within the last 2 months. Please do the following for the 10 days following your date of last exposure: Wear a mask around others for the 10 days following exposure. Test on day 1 and day 5 following the exposure. Self-monitor for COVID symptoms. If you develop symptoms: isolate from others, get tested, and stay home while waiting for the test results. If negative, you may move about campus without restrictions (with mask around others). If positive, continue to isolate away from others and await next steps from contact tracing. If you test positive outside Harvard’s testing program, report your positive test through Crimson Clear. Category 2: Quarantine required You are required to quarantine for 5 days and NOT go to school/work on-campus if you: completed the primary series of a 2-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine over 5 months ago and are not boosted, or completed the primary series of a single-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine over 2 months ago and are not boosted, or are unvaccinated. Please do the following for the 10 days following your date of last exposure: Complete the quarantine for 5 full days following the date of last exposure. Do not eat or socialize with others during this time. Wear a mask around others for the 10 days following the date of last exposure. Test on day 1 and day 5 following exposure, regardless of symptoms. Self-monitor for COVID symptoms (if you do not have any). If you develop symptoms: get tested and stay home and wait for the test results. If negative, you may leave quarantine and move about campus after day 5 (with mask around others). If positive, continue to isolate away from others and await next steps from HUHS contact tracing. If you test positive outside Harvard’s testing program, report your positive test through Crimson Clear. If you live on campus and you’re required to quarantine, you’ll need to stay in your room for the duration of your quarantine, leaving only to use the restroom, to continue with your prescribed testing frequency, for an urgent medical matter, or to evacuate for a life-threatening emergency. If you test positive for COVID-19 while in quarantine, you’ll need to isolate. If you live off campus and you’re required to quarantine, you must remain off campus other than to drop off a test kit. For more information, review HUHS’s FAQs on Possible or Confirmed Exposure and Quarantine. Quarantine protocols: Harvard health care and campus child care workforce The following quarantine information applies to Harvard health care providers and to staff members in Harvard’s campus child care centers. This guidance is also available as a PDF; see Exposure guidance for members of Harvard’s health care and child care center workforce. Review the 2 categories below to determine your requirements and next steps. Category 1: Quarantine not required You do not have to quarantine, and you may return to work/school on campus if you have no symptoms and you: have been boosted, or completed the primary series of a 2-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine within the last 5 months, or completed the primary series of a single-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine within the last 2 months. Before returning to work, you must receive a negative test result after you learn of the exposure. This will likely be your “Day 1” test. Do not return to work until you receive a negative test result. The test can be an antigen or PCR test. Additionally, please do the following for the 10 days following your date of last exposure: Wear a mask around others for the 10 days following the exposure and wear appropriate PPE while at work. Test on day 1 and day 5 following the exposure. The Day 1 test can also qualify as your return-to-work test. If negative, you can return to work the following day. Self-monitor for COVID symptoms. If you develop symptoms: isolate from others, get tested, and stay home while waiting for the test results. Do not report to work. If negative, you may move about campus without restrictions (with mask around others). If positive, continue to isolate away from others and await next steps from contact tracing. If you test positive outside Harvard’s testing program, report your positive test through Crimson Clear. Category 2: Quarantine required You are required to quarantine for 5 days and NOT go to school/work on-campus if you: completed the primary series of a 2-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine over 5 months ago and are not boosted, or completed the primary series of a single-dose FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine over 2 months ago and are not boosted, or are unvaccinated. Before returning to work, you must test on day 5 from the date of last exposure. Do not return to work until you receive a negative test result. The test can be an antigen or PCR test. Additionally, please do the following for the 10 days following your date of last exposure: Complete the quarantine for 5 full days following the date of last exposure. Do not eat or socialize with others during this time. Wear a mask around others for the 10 days following the date of last exposure and use appropriate PPE at work. Test on day 1 and day 5, regardless of symptoms. Your Day 5 test can qualify as your return-to-work test. If negative, you can return to work the following day. Self-monitor for COVID symptoms (if you do not have any). If you develop symptoms: get tested and stay home and wait for the test results. If negative, you may leave quarantine and move about campus after day 5 (with mask around others). If positive, continue to isolate away from others and await next steps from HUHS contact tracers. If you test positive outside Harvard’s testing program, report your positive test through Crimson Clear. If you live on campus and you’re required to quarantine, you’ll need to stay in your room for the duration of your quarantine, leaving only to use the restroom, to continue with your prescribed testing frequency, for an urgent medical matter, or to evacuate for a life-threatening emergency. If you test positive for COVID-19 while in quarantine, you’ll need to isolate. If you live off campus and you’re required to quarantine, you must remain off campus other than to drop off a test kit. For more information, review HUHS’s FAQs on Possible or Confirmed Exposure and Quarantine. Support services during quarantine Although you’ll be in quarantine, you’re not alone. Harvard administrators have established a multi-layered system to support you. HUHS is available to you as a resource if you have health questions and concerns throughout your quarantine. If you live in a School-operated residence hall, you will receive guidance on dining services for your specific location. For students: A School representative will contact you regarding academic support, the specifics for supporting your quarantine period, and to address any other needed supports. For faculty, staff, and researchers: Review Harvard HR’s Covid-19 policy on use of sick time and dependent care sick time. If you are able to teach or work, you will need to do so remotely. Leadership in your School or unit will follow up with you and discuss options. Exposure, Quarantine, & Isolation Resources Exposure Guidance for Close Contacts If you’re a close contact, your quarantine requirements will depend on your vaccination and booster status. Exposure guidance for the general Harvard community Exposure Guidance for Health Care and Child Care Staff If you’re a close contact and either a health care provider (currently seeing patients) or a staff member in one of Harvard’s campus child care centers, you have additional requirements. Exposure guidance for health care and child care staff HUHS’ testing, exposure, isolation, and quarantine procedures HUHS has gathered a list of FAQs to help you navigate the changing policies and procedures related to testing, exposure, isolation, and quarantine. Review HUHS’ FAQs Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube