Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Informatics Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Informatics Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Health Informatics Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Health Informatics Graduate Certificate The Health Informatics Graduate Certificate in Temple’s College of Public Health is a 12-credit, online certificate that teaches students the practical skills they need to advance on their current career in healthcare or enter the rapidly expanding field of health informatics. Health informatics is the application of information technology to healthcare professions with the aim of creating tools and procedures that facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of patients. This field includes the knowledge, skills and tools that enable information to be collected, managed, used and shared to support the delivery of healthcare and promote health. Courses in the program are taught by industry leaders, who will train you to use widely deployed electronic health record systems. The certificate program expands your understanding of evaluation of health information technology; data standards and vocabularies; security and privacy requirements; and the impact of IT on healthcare business practices and strategy. The admissions process you'll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or non-matriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. What sets apart our Graduate Certificate in Health Informatics? Designed for working professionals: All required courses can be completed online. Students may take classes in groups to facilitate professional networking. Practical, real-world experience: Learn and practice critical skills in a hands-on environment using widely deployed electronic health record systems. A springboard to Temple’s Master of Science in Health Informatics program: You can qualify for admission to the MS in Health Informatics program by maintaining a cumulative GPA of 3.25 in your graduate certificate courses. You will be able to transfer all credits from the certificate into our master’s program, satisfying four of its 10 course requirements. Depending on scheduling, you could complete your master’s degree in just one additional year. Program Format The certificate program is available either as an independent program or as a supplement to your primary graduate degree in the College of Public Health. You can complete the certificate entirely online on a part-time basis, finishing the 12 required credits in two years or less. See a full list of program courses. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Graduate students in Health Informatics may contact the program director for program support. Cathy Flite Interim Program Director Phone: 215-204-5801 Email: cflite@temple.edu Related Graduate Degrees Master of Science in Health Informatics Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this online Graduate Certificate program offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Online tuition: $1,000 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-HLTI-GRAD Additional Program Information Available online. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Informatics Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Information Required Courses Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info