Skip to content Stanford University Students Faculty & Staff Families Visitors Alumni COVID Resources Search Menu News Events Academics Research Health Care Campus Life Admission About Search term Search Stanford: Web People Search Web Other ways to search: Map Profiles Main Content University Administration University Governance Stanford University is led by President Marc Tessier-Lavigne and Provost Persis Drell. The University is also governed by a Board of Trustees and Faculty Senate. Office of the President Office of the Provost Board of Trustees Faculty Senate For more details on Stanford’s governance, please visit Stanford Facts: University Governance. Administrative Offices Stanford’s administrative offices are essential to supporting the operations and mission of the university. They deal with a diverse range of issues including human resources, financial activities, research administration and student affairs. Human Resources Financial Activities Research Administration Student Affairs A – Z list of Administrative Offices Staff Stanford’s employees are one of its most valuable resources. The campus is full of talented and dedicated people making important contributions to the life and fabric of our community. For more information about working at Stanford, visit stanfordcareers.stanford.edu. Administrative Policies The Admin Guide is Stanford’s primary manual of administrative policies. A list of other university-wide policy documents is also available. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube iTunes U Schools Business Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences Education Engineering Humanities & Sciences Law Medicine Departments Departments A - to Z Interdisciplinary Programs Research Research Centers A - to Z Interdisciplinary Research Libraries Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Online Learning Stanford Online About Stanford Facts History Accreditation Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Resources A - to Z Index Campus Map Community Engagement Directory Stanford Profiles Applying Visiting Giving Careers Contact Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility ©Copyright Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.