Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Student Life and Leadership Main Navigation About Resources Fraternity & Sorority Life Involvement Show Extended Clubs & Organizations Start an Organization Manage an Organization Join an Organization Sports Clubs Sports Clubs List Join a Sport Club Sports Club Inter-Club Council Coaches Forms & Resources FAQs Community Service Programs Project Directors Service Hours Volunteer Leadership Programs Special Events Giving Off Campus Guests TitanLink Virtual Chapter Management About FSL Councils Chapters Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, & Belonging Programs Policies & Procedures Recruitment/Intake FAQs & Resources Fraternity & Sorority Life Fraternity & Sorority Life at Cal State Fullerton works to create an inclusive learning environment that fosters a sense of belonging and supports values-based development of individuals and communities. Our area provides support, education, and engagement to students as an integral part of the Titan Experience through programming based on the Pillars of Excellence: Brotherhood & Sisterhood, Service & Philanthropy, Leadership, and Scholarship. Please click each drop-down menu title below to access additional information: Leadership CSUF Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) is a crucial environment for students to develop their leadership skills and potential. The FSL community provides many diverse opportunities for students to play an integral part within their chapter and beyond through direct and indirect leadership roles. The FSL community strives to cultivate leaders that will leave their fraternity and sorority better than they found it. Service/Philanthropy CSUF Fraternity and Sorority Life recognizes the importance of giving back to the community and the individual philanthropic causes of every chapter. The active participation in service/philanthropy for every chapter serves as a model of service to the entire Titan community. Students will enhance their personal awareness of the surrounding community and unity while helping those in need. Brotherhood/Sisterhood CSUF Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) strives to foster a sense of community and belonging to all students involved. FSL encourages every chapter to create a place of comfort and comradery for their members both within and outside of their organization. Chapters must always strive to promote a commitment to unity and interfraternalism for all of their members. Scholarship CSUF Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) values and respects the academic excellence of our students with an emphasis to excel inside and outside the classroom. The FSL community strives to provide academic support for all members within their chapters. It is the expectation that each chapter surpasses the all university GPA average and promotes academic success. This site is maintained by Student Life and Leadership. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact studentlife@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.