Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson Home Faculty/Staff Resources Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Prospective Students Current Students Research About Partner News College News SCIENCE News Thank you for your interest in SCIENCE. As part of a land-grant University, we understand the value of being locally relevant and embracing the responsibility of improving the lives of South Carolinians. As an aspiring world-class College of Science, we understand the importance of being globally impactful and preparing our graduates to be leaders in an increasingly diverse and interconnected world. The faculty, staff and students of the College of Science focus as a team on academic, faculty and inclusive excellence, seeking high-impact and transformational experiences. Find out more about the College of Science using the links on this page. From this page you can… View current and past Dean’s newsletters View all College of Science stories on Clemson News (recent stories are shown below) Find our more about selected upcoming seminars and symposiums, as available RECENTLY IN THE NEWS Clemson-led research teams launch rockets into aurora borealis to study energy exchange Tuesday May 31, 2022 As the Northern Lights danced over Poker Flat Research Range near Fairbanks, Alaska, early one morning in April, a team of researchers led by Clemson University assistant professor of physics Stephen Kaeppler launched a sounding rocket into the colorful aerial […] The post Clemson-led research teams launch rockets into aurora borealis to study energy exchange appeared first on Clemson News. Experiments and Experiences Thursday May 19, 2022 Steve and Sarah Creager make planned gift to establish speaker series for chemistry Clemson University faculty members inspire ideas; they support solutions; they reinforce research. They make a difference in the lives of our students, and they provide the knowledge, […] The post Experiments and Experiences appeared first on Clemson News. Clemson’s COBRE Symposium features leading experts on genetics of human disease Thursday May 19, 2022 The Center of Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE) in Human Genetics will host leading experts in the genetics of rare and common human diseases during its first symposium at the Arts Center of Greenwood in Greenwood, South Carolina, on Friday. The […] The post <strong>Clemson’s COBRE Symposium features leading experts on genetics of human disease</strong> appeared first on Clemson News. Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Wednesday May 18, 2022 Angela Naimou, associate professor of English at Clemson University, has received the Phil and Mary Bradley Faculty Award for Mentoring in Creative Inquiry. The award recognizes outstanding work with undergraduate students engaged in Creative Inquiry projects. Naimou was nominated by […] The post Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors appeared first on Clemson News. College of Science faculty and staff recognized for excellence Friday May 13, 2022 Several College of Science faculty and staff members were honored for excellence during an awards ceremony on May 12. The awards recognized teaching and research excellence, outstanding performance, and outstanding student service and engagement. The honorees were: Outstanding Staff Member: […] The post College of Science faculty and staff recognized for excellence appeared first on Clemson News. Reaching out: Clemson students mentor elementary and middle schoolers through CU-REACH Thursday May 12, 2022 Allyson Drawdy had never really considered the social disparities that some people in the community face until she took a sociology class as a first-year student at Clemson University. “It allowed me to look at the Clemson community with a […] The post Reaching out: Clemson students mentor elementary and middle schoolers through CU-REACH appeared first on Clemson News. College of Science names inaugural Dean’s Distinguished Lecturers Award recipients Thursday May 12, 2022 The College of Science named senior lecturers Amy Pope, Meredith Burr and Christine Minor the inaugural recipients of its Dean’s Distinguished Lecturers Award. The awards, presented during the College’s faculty meeting May 12, recognize teaching-focused faculty members who demonstrate significant […] The post College of Science names inaugural Dean’s Distinguished Lecturers Award recipients appeared first on Clemson News. General Inquiries College of Science 118 Long Hall Clemson, SC 29634 ✉ science@clemson.edu ☏ 864-656-3015 Need assistance with news coverage, or information about this page? Contact the College of Science Communications and Marketing Department. Submit News Send news submissions to ScienceNews@clemson.edu. News Home Newsletters Seminars Departments Biological Sciences Chemistry Genetics and Biochemistry School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences Physics and Astronomy Centers and Institutes Clemson Center for Human Genetics Clemson Eukaryotic Pathogens Innovation Center Center for Excellence in Math and Science Education Life Sciences Outreach Center Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Give to the College Like Us on Facebook Copyright © 2019 Clemson University College of Science | 118 Long Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3015 | Email Us