Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Mindfulness Center at Brown Home Research Mindfulness Training Programs Collaboratives News and Ideas People Site Navigation Home Research Mindfulness Training MBSR Teacher Recognition Programs Collaboratives Global Mindfulness Collaborative International Mindfulness Integrity Network Contemplative Studies Partnership News and Ideas People Join us! The health and well-being of the community is our top priority. With COVID-19 at the forefront of many people’s minds, we are offering daily mindfulness sessions open to the public to help ease anxiety and build community. Community Events Diversity and Equity at the Mindfulness Center DEI Statement: We at the Mindfulness Center at Brown are committed to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion in our teaching, curricula, and research, and to advancing diversity along its many dimensions within and beyond our organization. We strive to engage students, participants, trainees, faculty, and staff from all backgrounds and experiences in leading the next generation of mindfulness scholarship, instruction, and practice. We invite you to join us in shaping a welcoming and affirming environment, drawing on the potential of mindfulness to foster connection and belonging while making mindfulness training and practice more inclusive. The Mindfulness Center at Brown initiatives to advance diversity, equity, belonging, and inclusion Research at the Mindfulness Center at Brown "Research In Progress" meeting presenter, Jud Brewer, MD, PhD, discussed "Can app based mindfulness training change the brain?" More About Research Mindfulness-Based Programs Our mindfulness-based programs are available online or in-person for you or your organization, locally in Rhode Island, nationally, or around the world. More About Mindfulness-Based Programs Mindfulness-Based Programs and Events Mindfulness Center at Brown provides a variety of programs for newcomers, seasoned practitioners, and teacher training. Upcoming Programs The Mindfulness Center at Brown brings together top academics in research with leading educators in mindfulness. Dedicated to rigorous research and student-centered education, our goal is to offer programs that improve individual lives and organizational effectiveness. Our courses are offered in-person and live-online, in our local community, nationally and globally. Mindfulness Research We are at a time in history when mindfulness research is rapidly expanding, and mindfulness has become a $1 billion industry in the United States alone. There is great need for methodologically rigorous research to help determine whether reported impacts of mindfulness on health are fad or fact, The Mindfulness Center at Brown leads initiatives in this area. Our researchers include experts from medicine, public health, and humanities to examine mindfulness from all angles. Did you know that the Brown and affiliated hospitals over the past 5 years: Ranked 5thin the US for NIH grant funding on mindfulness ($10,445,940). Ranked 4thin the US for number of mindfulness peer-reviewed publications (61 papers). We collaborate with researchers and community-based mindfulness intervention providers across Brown University, the state of Rhode Island, nationally and internationally. Learn more about Research Subtitle: Mindfulness-Based Programs The Mindfulness Center at Brown offers evidence-based mindfulness training. Training includes MBSR (Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction) teacher training, mindfulness classes for individuals, and mindfulness training through global affiliates and strategic partnerships. Mindfulness training happens on-site, live on-line, and in person. See Available Upcoming Programs Learn More About Mindfulness-Based Programs Subtitle: History of the Mindfulness Center at Brown The Mindfulness Center at Brown University was established in 2017, in collaboration with the Brown University School of Public Health, the Warren Alpert Medical School and the Contemplative Studies Initiative. Top leaders and academics in mindfulness research, came together to address the need for methodologically rigorous research into mindfulness. In 2018, the Mindfulness Center expanded with the addition of leading researchers, trainers and leaders in the field: Judson Brewer, Dianne Horgan, Florence Meleo-Meyer, Lynn Koerbel, Brenda Fingold, Patricia Holland, Remko van Lutterfeld, Alex Roy, and Pablo Abrante. Under the direction of Eric Loucks, the Mindfulness Center at Brown is now uniquely positioned through its research, training, global presence and foundation of contemplative underpinnings to serve and grow in new directions. What sets us apart is a truly collaborative and rigorous approach to both research and training joined with a broad global perspective and deep roots in contemplative studies. Subtitle: Mindfulness Center at Brown University Leadership The Mindfulness Center at Brown is led by Dr. Eric Loucks, Director, Dr. Judson Brewer, Director of Research and Innovation, and Dianne Horgan, Associate Director for our new Center. The Mindfulness Center is one of Brown University School of Public Health’s internationally renowned research centers and institutes. Subtitle: Programs and Events Take a class or attend an event. Learn More Research Mindfulness research at Brown University covers many health domains Learn More Global Mindfulness Collaborative Bringing together many of the world’s leading mindfulness-based educational institutions Learn More Ideas Mindfulness News, Videos, Research, and Ideas Learn More Mindfulness Center at Brown Mindfulness Center at Brown Brown University One Davol Square, Second Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-9100 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Sign up for our newsletter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top