Skip Top Navigation null More details Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Life Sciences Greenhouse Facebook (603) 646-2382Theresa.Barry@Dartmouth.eduMail Home Menu About About the Greenhouse Pest Control Plant Families List Research People Collections Brout Orchid Collections "Morphy" - The Corpse Flower Tropical Plants Sub-Tropical Plants Cacti & Succulents Visit Hours Location & Parking Community Groups SearchClose Search Search Life Sciences Greenhouse Dartmouth's 6,000-square-foot greenhouse sits atop the Class of 1978 Life Sciences Center. This living botanical museum opened in August 2011, offering resources for research, serving as a classroom for budding botanists and veteran horticulturists, and providing an inviting space for casual visitors. 5/27/22 MORPHY IS IN BLOOM! Morphy, our Amorphophallus titanum - or Corpse Flower, is in bloom and will likely open over the Memorial Day weekend! While we would love to be open to the public for this bloom, we are not able to manage the large crowds as we have in the past due to staffing shortages in the greenhouse and throughout the college. The Greenhouse Committee has made the decision to only open to educational and research visitors for this bloom. However, we do have a live feed where you can enjoy watching Morphy’s bloom open in all its splendor without the stink! We truly look forward to opening to the public for Morphy’s next bloom! Watch the live feed! LSC GREENHOUSE TEMPORARILY CLOSED The LSC Greenhouse will be temporarily closed to visitors beginning Wed May 25 due to staffing shortages. We hope to reopen during the week of June 6th and will announce our reopening at that time. We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience. News & Events Morphy Bloom Live Feed Contact Us Life Sciences Greenhouse 78 College Street Hanover, NH 03755 Phone: (603) 646-2382 Email: Theresa.Barry@Dartmouth.edu Quicklinks Hours Location & Parking Staff Quicklinks Morphy - The Corpse Flower Brout Orchid Collection Plant Families List Last Updated Close Close People Terry Barry Theresa.Barry@Dartmouth.edu Find Us Address 78 College Street Hanover, NH 03755 Check out the Campus Map. Talk to Us Phone: (603) 646-2382 HB: 6044 Email: Theresa.Barry@Dartmouth.edu More Contact InformationClose Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback Dartmouth College Life Sciences Greenhouse About Collections Visit Last Updated: May 28, 2022