Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Data Analytics (MS) Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science The Master of Science in Data Analytics program provides students with the ability to develop algorithms and computer programs for discovery of information from large amounts of data. This includes the architecture of programs, as well as technical details of algorithm development. Students are expected to be able to write and maintain novel computer programs that make efficient use of cutting-edge computer technology. Students in this nonthesis program receive a broad background in the areas of parallel programming, machine learning, data mining, and network science while specializing in particular areas of data analytics practice. Students successfully completing this program will have exhibited breadth as well as depth of capability involving discovery of knowledge from "big data." The MS in Data Analytics requires 30 credit hours and includes a project, which is a culminating experience. Students must receive a grade of "B" or higher in all courses. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Request Information View Full Description Application Deadlines Domestic International Spring December 1 Fall July 1 Spring July 1 Fall January 15 Ready to get started? Apply Today Career Opportunities UCF prepares you for life beyond the classroom. Here, you’ll experience a wide range of opportunity, like learning diverse skills from world-renowned faculty to networking with top employers across Central Florida to gaining first-hand experience in internships nearby. Achieve your degree and more as a Knight. Agricultural Research Director Braille Teacher C++ Professor Computer Information Systems Professor Computer Programming Professor Flight Simulator Teacher Geochemical Manager Geophysical Manager IT Professor Information Systems Professor Information Technology Professor Interdisciplinary Professor Java Programming Professor Military Science Teacher Ocean Program Administrator Project Management Professor Show More Career Opportunities Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Data Analytics (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Data Analytics (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Data Analytics program provides students with the ability to develop algorithms and computer programs for discovery of information from large amounts of data. This includes the architecture of programs, as well as technical details of algorithm development. Students are expected to be able to write and maintain novel computer programs that make efficient use of cutting-edge computer technology. Students in this nonthesis program receive a broad background in the areas of parallel programming, machine learning, data mining, and network science while specializing in particular areas of data analytics practice. Students successfully completing this program will have exhibited breadth as well as depth of capability involving discovery of knowledge from "big data." The MS in Data Analytics requires 30 credit hours and includes a project, which is a culminating experience. Students must receive a grade of "B" or higher in all courses. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Program Prerequisites An undergraduate degree in computer science, statistics, computer engineering or information technology is desirable but not required. Applicants without a strong undergraduate background in computer science or statistics must demonstrate an understanding of the material covered in the following upper division undergraduate courses: COP 3330 Object-Oriented Programming COP 3503C Computer Science II COP 4710 Database Systems STA 2023 Statistical Methods I Programming experience or STA 4164 Statistical Methods III Degree Requirements Required Courses 24 Total Credits Complete the following: CAP5610 - Machine Learning (3) CNT5805 - Network Science (3) COP5711 - Parallel and Distributed Database Systems (3) COP6526 - Parallel and Cloud Computation (3) STA5206 - Statistical Analysis (3) STA5703 - Data Mining Methodology I (3) STA6704 - Data Mining Methodology II (3) CAP6942 - Project in Data Analytics (3) Restricted Elective Courses 6 Total Credits Complete at least 2 of the following: CAP6307 - Text Mining I (3) CAP6315 - Social Media and Network Analysis (3) CAP6318 - Computational Analysis of Social Complexity (3) CAP6545 - Machine Learning Methods for Biomedical Data (3) CAP6737 - Interactive Data Visualization (3) STA6714 - Data Preparation (3) Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. The GRE is not required for admission to this program. Resume/CV 2 Letters of recommendation Applicants applying to this program who have attended a college/university outside the United States must provide a course-by-course credential evaluation with GPA calculation. Credential evaluations are accepted from World Education Services (WES) or Josef Silny and Associates, Inc. only. Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. An undergraduate degree in Computer Science, Statistics, Information Technology, or Computer Engineering is desirable but not required. Applicants without a strong undergraduate background in Computer Science and Statistics must demonstrate an understanding of the material covered in upper-division undergraduate courses listed under the Articulation Section of the Curriculum Information. Applicants may choose to demonstrate their knowledge of these courses by taking these courses as non-degree seeking and scoring "B" or better in all of them. Application Deadlines Data Analytics MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida