Skip to main content Faculty Directory Cornell Engineering Apply Visit Give to Engineering Industry Partners Home Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Student Design Projects Summer Research Experience for Teachers Research Research Areas Partner Research Organizations Graduate Students Research Groups People Leadership Faculty Staff Facilities Alumni Get Involved Giving Opportunities Recruit Students Alumni Spotlights BME Newsletters Resources Academic Support Extracurricular Programs FAQs Forms: All Graduate Services and Activities Mental Health Resources Professional Experience and Employment Undergraduate Services and Activities About Us Mission and History Diversity & Inclusion Contact Us Open the search panel Menu Search Close Engineering better health. Jobs News Give Programs Faculty News Latest News Celebrating the Class of 2022 May 28, 2022 The Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering at Cornell University proudly congratulates the Cornell University 2022 class of graduates. Read more about Celebrating the Class of 2022More News Event Saturday, August 20, 2022 10:05am to 6:00pm It's Summer! Summer is a slower time for events but check back here for any events that arise. Read more about It's Summer!More Events Spotlight Biomedical engineering: a path to medical school Brooke Cohen is an undergraduate senior concentrating in biomaterials and drug delivery (BMDD) and performing research in the Butcher Lab. After graduation she will work as a medical scribe at Texas Orthopedics in Austin while applying to medical school. Read more about Biomedical engineering: a path to medical schoolMore Spotlights Undergraduate Programs B.S. in Biomedical Engineering Graduate Programs Master's in Engineering (M.Eng.) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Celebrating our Graduates! Riya Singh is an undergraduate student working on OMV-based vaccine engineering in the DeLisa Lab and exploring both research and industry sides of biomedical engineering through internship experiences. Read more Developing a wearable device for monitoring multiple sclerosis Jonathan Pierre is an undergraduate student concentrating in Molecular/Cellular/Systems Engineering (MCSE) and is developing a wearable device for monitoring multiple sclerosis. After graduation he will work as a sourcing engineer for Medtronic. Read more Biomedical engineering: a path to medical school Brooke Cohen is an undergraduate senior concentrating in biomaterials and drug delivery (BMDD) and performing research in the Butcher Lab. After graduation she will work as a medical scribe at Texas Orthopedics in Austin while applying to medical school. Read more Applying math and science in practical ways to help people Parker Dean is an undergraduate student studying biomechanics and mechanobiology in the Butcher Lab at the Meinig School. Read more Rooted in community, reaching for a solution to antibiotic resistance Christine Harper is a Ph.D. student in the Hernandez lab researching bacteria physiology as it relates to antibiotic resistance. Read more Research Areas Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation Drug Delivery and Nanomedicine Molecular and Cellular Engineering Systems and Synthetic Biology Tissue Engineering and Biomaterials All Research Areas News Events Spotlights Staff Directory Contact Us Directions and Maps Job Openings-BME Intranet-BME Admissions: 607 255-8402 DEPT Address: Weill Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Connect with us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Copyright © 2022 Cornell University All rights reserved. Web Accessibility Assistance