Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Information Technology Main Navigation About IT Services Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff CEDA Software Show Extended Students Faculty / Staff Events & Projects IT Strategic Plan CSUF Dropbox for Business Dropbox is a file hosting service that offers cloud storage, file synchronization, personal cloud, and client software. Drop any file into a designated folder where it is automatically uploaded to Dropbox's cloud-based service and shared with other Dropbox clients. Unlimited storage for faculty/staff, Campus account logins, and convenient access via Windows, Mac OS, Linux, and mobile using any web browser. Dropbox for Virtual Teaching Create class folders to share materials for each lesson Request students submit their assignments via file requests Use Dropbox Paper to share syllabi and organize coursework DropBox Faculty & Staff Accounts Fastrack Onboarding New to Dropbox? Getting Started Video Tutorial Getting Started with Dropbox for Business Check If You Have an Existing Dropbox Account Create a New Faculty/Staff Dropbox for Business Account Dropbox End User Guide Manage An Existing Account Convert your existing @fullerton.edu Dropbox account Convert your existing Gmail/Yahoo/Hotmail/etc. Dropbox account Change the email account associated with your personal Dropbox account Linking Dropbox & Office 365 Learn how to link your Office 365 documents to Dropbox. Watch Connecting Dropbox to Office Apps on Apple Devices Tutorial Please Note All links and permissions from the personal account will remain as they were set up. Dropbox is also available for your iOS, Windows, and Android devices. The sign in and connect process for these devices is similar to the web version, and the file and folder views will also be the same. Account Info If your personal account already uses your @fullerton.edu address, you will have the option of migrating these files to a new personal account using a different email address (@gmail.com, for example), or migrating these files to your CSUF Dropbox account. If you were using your CSU Fullerton email as your personal account, you should inform non-work collaborators of your new address, as anything shared in the future with your CSU Fullerton email will end up in your CSUF Dropbox. This site is maintained by Division of Information Technology. Last Published 4/5/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact helpdesk@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.