News & Events - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving Resources for ... Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Visitors Recruiters UH Home News & Events News & Events Page contents: News Faculty Experts Multimedia UH Today Events Emergency Communication UH in the News Latest News News Release Archives Researchers Develop Sodium Glassy Electrolytes Capable of Supporting Long-Duration Grid-scale Energy Storage As governments and industries all over the world are eager to find energy storage options to power the clean energy transition, new research conducted at the University of Houston suggests ambient temperature solid-state sodium-sulfur battery technology as a viable alternative to lithium-based battery technology for grid-level energy storage systems. Stem Cell Cloning Experts Unraveling Cystic Fibrosis Two nationally recognized experts in cloning and stem cell science from the University of Houston are taking the first step toward limiting the consequences of chronic inflammation in cystic fibrosis, a disease that limits the ability to breathe, by identifying the source of this persistent and enigmatic inflammation in CF lungs. Coogs Around the World: Gilman Scholarships to Support Learning Abroad Experiences for UH Students As part of the latest cohort of Gilman scholars, 21 University of Houston students will receive substantial financial support for their international endeavors. This competitive award through the U.S. Department of State recognizes exemplary yet underserved students who may not otherwise have opportunities to venture outside of the U.S. UH Wins 2022 AMA Crystal Awards for Outstanding Marketing and Communications Campaigns The University of Houston took home four awards for excellence in marketing and communications at the 36th Annual American Marketing Association (AMA) Crystal Awards. This year’s winners were selected from more than 150 finalists in more than 90 categories from marketing, communications, advertising, design and public relations professionals. Fertitta Family Pledges $50 Million to UH College of Medicine to Propel ‘New Era of Health Care’ Prominent businessman Tilman J. Fertitta and his family have pledged $50 million to the University of Houston College of Medicine to ignite a new era of innovative and equitable health care in Houston and across Texas. In recognition of the legacy-defining support, the medical school is now named the Tilman J. Fertitta Family College of Medicine. Deciphering the Brain and How the Visual System Processes Information University of Houston scientists are delving into the brain by examining gap junctions in the retina and elsewhere – an understanding that could guide the development of new treatments or diagnostics for brain disorders and degenerative diseases. Shale Reservoirs Could be ‘Substantial Source of Lithium’ Through her research of Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale play, Kyung Jae Lee, an assistant professor of petroleum engineering at the University of Houston’s Cullen College of Engineering found that highly concentrated lithium was found in the produced water (water produced as a byproduct during the extraction of oil and natural gas) along with produced natural gas and oil. ‘Little Shop of Horrors’ Coming to UH The Kathrine G. McGovern College of Arts is proud to present “Little Shop of Horrors” - the college’s first ever full-scale musical production. A classic Broadway title originally adapted from the 1960 film, “Little Shop” marks the first collaborative production by students and faculty from Moores School of Music and the School of Theatre & Dance. Buildup of Solar Heat Likely Contributes to Mars’ Dust Storms, Researchers Find Seasonal imbalance between the solar energy absorbed and released by the planet Mars could be a cause of the Red Planet’s dust storms, according to new research from the University of Houston. Understanding how the system works on Mars could help scientists predict how climate change could affect Earth. Trauma of Migrant Separation Lingers Long After Reunification A University of Houston study finds psychological trauma resulting from migrant children being separated for long periods of time from their loved ones lingers long after they are reunited and can lead to physical consequences as well. Air Pollution Dropped During Pandemic Lockdowns Our atmosphere took a breather during COVID-19 stay-at-home orders. In comparing 2020 air quality measurements to the same data from 2019, University of Houston researchers found the pollutant PM2.5 decreased in 10 of the 11 U.S. cities they studied – documenting a temporary clearing of the air. Coogs Springing Into Commencement The latest University of Houston graduates will walk the stage during Spring 2022 Commencement ceremonies taking place May 12 – 15. More than 5,900 undergraduate, graduate, professional and doctoral degrees will be conferred during 17 college convocations conducted on campus. Faculty Experts UH professors and award-winning researchers can discuss a range of topics relevant to the media and the general public. Among the subjects they can address are politics, elections, energy, health care, education, law, popular culture and more. Many of these seasoned professors have been featured on national news outlets and are prepared to assist reporters through on-camera or phone interviews. Find a Faculty Expert ENERGY & CARBON MANAGEMENT Charles McConnell is a subject-matter expert in carbon capture, utilization and storage, and carbon management technologies, policies and business. He has 35 years of energy industry experience including national laboratories management and running the Mid-West Regional Carbon Sequestration Partnership. GRIEF & LOSS Rheeda Walker, professor of psychology and director of the Culture, Risk and Resilience Lab can talk about the impact of grief. “In the short-term, grief can feel like insurmountable sadness, emptiness and loss. Life as it once was is no more.” POLICYMAKING PROCESS & INTERNATIONAL POLITICS Pablo Pinto is the director of the Center for Public Policy in the Hobby School of Public Affairs. His areas of expertise include international and comparative political economy, comparative politics and quantitative methods. MIDDLE EAST Associate professor and program director of Middle Eastern Studies, Emran El-Badawi is an expert on Arab intellectual history, early Islamic history and Qur’anic studies. ENERGY, OIL & GAS Ed Hirs is an energy economist and can discuss energy markets, energy policy including taxes and tariffs, and a range of issues related to oil and gas production, as well as the ways in which energy prices affect the broader economy. ENERGY ECONOMICS Bill Gilmer is director of the Institute for Regional Forecasting (IRF) at the University of Houston’s Bauer College of Business. IRF monitors the Houston and Gulf Coast business cycle, analyzing how oil markets, the national economy and global expansion influence the regional economy. Gilmer is also a UH Energy Fellow. MYOPIA MANAGEMENT Kathryn Richdale is associate professor and optometrist in the University Eye Institute. Richdale is an expert in using special treatments for myopia management in children, which slows down the progresson of nearsightedness to improve their overall eye health. VOTER BEHAVIOR & STEREOTYPES Elizabeth Simas is an associate professor in the Department of Political Science. She can speak to campaign strategy, gender stereotypes in campaigns and political psychology. PUBLIC HEALTH DISPARITIES Ezemenari M. Obasi is founder and director of the HEALTH Research Institute and director of Hwemunda Addictions and Health Disparities Laboratory. His range of expertise includes improving health in underserved communities, obesty and Type 2 diabetes prevention programs, substance abuse and cultural predictors of health behaviors. PUBLIC POLICY Jim Granato can speak to a wide range of issues on American politics, political economy (focusing primarily on monetary policy issues) and American public policy. He is the executive director of the Hobby School of Public Affairs. UH In The News Houstonia UH Premieres Its First Musical, Little Shop of Horrors Houston Chronicle Meet UH’s Bigger, Badder Flesh-Eating Flower for ‘Little Shop of Horrors’ (Subscription) Houston Chronicle Summer Vacations Could Cost 25% More This Year, but Houston Travelers Aren't Deterred (Subscription) Houston Style Magazine GONZO247 to Create Live Mural at the Closing of ‘The Art of Awareness: A Community’s Self-Portrait of Immunization Health’ Art Exhibit Reuters America's Biggest Gun Lobby to Hold Major Gathering in Shadow of Mass Shootings Office of Media Relations The Media Relations team seeks to maximize significant positive media coverage of the University and communicate effectively about the achievements of the institution, its faculty and students, externally and internally. Contact Information News Media Policy Filming at UH Follow the Office of Media Relations Twitter Multimedia UH Moment is a weekly feature heard Wednesdays on KUHF and seen daily on KUHT HoustonPBS. Each week, you'll hear students, faculty and administrators telling stories of the innovative research, programs and successes that make up the story of the University of Houston. Listen to UH Moment Watch UH Moment Listen Live to News 88.7 Listen Live to News 88.7 UH Today For faculty and staff, UH Today reports on important human resources and University policy issues, provides institutional and employee features and covers awards, appointments and events information as well as other items of interest to the UH campus. Read UH Today Virtual Events Events Calendar Academic Calendar Jun 10 9:00 am The Fundamentals of Deep Learning In this workshop, you’ll learn how deep learning works through hands-on exercises in computer vision and natural language processing. Jun 11 1:00 pm Saleri Studio Saturday with Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar Create your own individual and collaborative artworks in FREE workshops led by Artists Debra Barrera and Nohelia Vargas Bolivar. Aug 19 12:00 am Save the Date: First Lecture 2022 First Lecture returns to an in-person event. Kick off the academic year with inspirational speakers as they provide insights for moving forward toward a better future. Students, faculty, staff and community members are invited to this free event on Friday, Aug. 19, 2022 in-person at the University of Houston. Emergency Communication Your single resource for up-to-the-minute information about campus emergency incidents including school closures or announcements about unfavorable weather conditions around our area. Emergency Information University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies