COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Undergraduate Research Section Menu Get Funding Research Opportunities FAQs URCA Grant Program FYRE SRI Dorothy and Bill Cohen Honors College Kansas UG Research Day at Capitol Return to Student Research Home 2023 Kansas Undergraduate Research Day at the Capitol Discover your passion for research, scholarly projects, creative activities Get Funding Opportunities FAQ Active Learning Undergraduate Research – Scholarly Projects – Creative Activities Stimulating active learning through an applied process empowers students to… - engage in scholarly and creative exploration - embrace problem-solving and critical thinking - implement strategy and processes - promote dissemination of work and grant writing …while collaborating with faculty and fellow students in or out of their field/major. Facilitated by the Dorothy & Bill Cohen Honors College the UG Research & Creative Activities Grant Program is open to all students. Get Started URCA The Undergraduate Research and Creative Activities (URCA) grants program awards up to $1,000 to support student research and creative/performace projects in collaboration with a faculty mentor. This program is suspended for the fall 2021 semester, but will return in spring 2022! Learn more about URCA FYRE The mission of the First Year Research Experience (FYRE) program is to build a community of STEM students, faculty and professionals from various STEM backgrounds to support young STEM majors or potential majors as they form identities as members of the scientific community, thus improving the likelihood that they will persist to graduation. FYRE is supported by funding from the Helen Clay Frick Foundation. Learn more about FYRE SRI The Summer Research Institute (SRI) is an immersive research experience for incoming students. Students will: Practice teamwork with other local students Expand scientific communication skills Explore the features of art in science Learn more about SRI McNair Scholars Program The McNair Scholars Program is designed for students who are interested in pursuing doctoral studies. Services include, but are not limited to: graduate school exploration, research opportunities, faculty mentoring and writing assistance. Learn more about the McNair Scholars Program We want to hear from you! Have you participated in undergraduate research at Wichita State University? Students can complete the Undergraduate research survey to help us track the impact of research on the student experience! Undergraduate Research Survey Go Further URCAF URCAF offers a platform through which undergraduate students may engage in the scholarly conversation by presenting new research they have conducted to the WSU community. URCAF supports submissions that contribute to thsi conversation from across all disciplines and using all forms of documentation. There truly are no limits to the type of submissions that will be considered, and the next winner of this juried research competition showcase may be you! Learn more about URCAF Research Day at the Capitol The Kansas Undergraduate Research Day at the Capitol event is an annual opportunity for students to present their research experiences with state lawmakers in Topeka. Learn more about Research Day at the Capitol Professional Conferences Most professions have conferences which include undergraduate student presenters. Please visit with your faculty advisors to find out about your profession's opportunities. Entrpreneurial Competitions Monetize your research by competing in one of WSU's entrepreneurial competitions! Shocker New Venture Shocker Innovation Corps (I-Corps) Sigma Xi Scientific Research Society 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©