COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Richard D. Muma Section Menu Office of the President Dr. Richard Muma bio Presidential Inauguration Presidential Priorities University Leadership President's Staff Task Forces Organizational Chart First Gentleman Rick Case Newsletters and Podcast Share Your Thoughts Dr. Richard D. Muma, PhD, MPH, PA-C President, Wichita State University Muma Richard (Rick) Muma was named the 15th president of Wichita State University on May 6, 2021. Muma, who goes by Rick, was born in Wichita but raised in Houston. He earned a Bachelor of Science in Physician Assistant Studies from the University of Texas Medical Branch-Galveston, a Master of Public Health in Community Health from the University of Texas Health Science Center-Houston, and a Ph.D. in higher education administration from the University of Missouri-St. Louis. He has more than 30 years of experience as a professor, administrator and physician assistant in internal medicine and infectious diseases. Before assuming the presidency, Muma was executive vice president and provost of Wichita State, serving as the university's chief academic officer and providing academic leadership for the university's priorities — including enrollment, applied learning, funded research, and regional economic development. While at Wichita State, he has also served as senior associate vice president for Academic Affairs and Strategic Enrollment Management and chair and professor in the departments of Public Health Sciences and Physician Assistant. Muma has also served as chair for Saint Louis University's Department of Physician Assistant Education and an assistant professor at the University of Texas Medical Branch-Galveston’s Department of PA Studies. Prior to assuming administrative roles at Wichita State, Muma was active in reshaping health profession education at Wichita State. Most notably, he was responsible for developing undergraduate degrees for paramedics and health science majors, a master’s degree in physician assistant studies, and reorganizing the Department of Public Health Sciences to include undergraduate degrees in health management and health science and a graduate degree in aging studies. Muma has published his research in notable journals and has edited four books, two on HIV infection and two others on patient education. Rick Muma and First Gentleman Rick Case Personal and Family Muma lives in Wichita with his spouse, Rick Case. Case is the retired district director for the Farm Service Agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. They have two adult sons Drew and Collin and a daughter-in-law, Abi. Muma and Case are members of the WSU Foundation’s Society of 1895. In 2011, they established Richard D. Muma and Rick A. Case Equality Scholarship in 2011 for students members of Spectrum: LGBTQ & Allies, a WSU student organization. Learn more about Rick Case May 6 Presidential Announcement Gallery 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©