Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About BC Overview President's Message Mission & History Facts & Figures Notable Alumni Campuses, Maps & Directions Trustees & Leadership Related Links Diversity BC Fact Book Office of University Communications BC Media & Publications Office for Institutional Diversity Admission Overview Apply Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Transfer Credit Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Visit Discover BC Hotels, Directions, and Parking Contact Admission Affordability Majors & Minors Morrissey College Majors Choosing BC Related Links Undergraduate Tuition & Financial Aid Financial Aid Office Graduate Admission Offices Academics Overview Schools & Colleges Majors & Minors Libraries Professional & Continuing Education Excellence & Innovation Academic Advising Related Links Academic Calendar Office of the Provost Academic Advising Center Core Curriculum Student Services Campus Life Overview Diversity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Student Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Culture Related Links Student Affairs McMullen Museum Robsham Theater Research Overview Research Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Faculty Awards & Grants Graduate Fellowships Research Support Related Links Vice Provost for Research Sponsored Programs Research Integrity and Compliance Technology Transfer and Licensing Jesuit, Catholic Overview Catholic Intellectual Tradition Jesuit Resources Related Links Division of Mission & Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Student Formation The Church in the 21st Century Center Close Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 HOME Admission Apply Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 In This Section Admission Questbridge Applicants International Applicants Homeschooled Applicants Transfer Applicants Veteran and ROTC Applicants Test-Optional Policy 2022-23 Early Decision vs. Regular Decision First-Year Admission Profile Test-Optional Policy for the Class of 2027 The past two years have brought illness, death and disruption to our world. Due to lingering health and safety concerns, Boston College will remain test-optional for first-year and transfer applicants during the 2022-23 admission cycle. Students who do not submit standardized test results receive full consideration in our selection process. Applicants who apply without standardized test scores will have one less credential to be considered by the Admission Committee. Instead, we will focus on the other portions of students’ applications. If I choose to submit standardized test results, could that impact my chances of admission? Yes. When submitted as part of the application, test scores will be considered by the Admission Committee to inform our decisions. For the Class of 2025, the middle 50% range for enrolled students was 1430-1510 on the SAT and 33-34 on the ACT. In the most recent applicant pool, 43% of applicants submitted test scores while 67% of admitted students had done so. View our First-Year Profile for the Class of 2025. Learn more about our test-optional policy: Can I switch my testing plan after submitting my Common Application? Students who submit standardized test results to Boston College and indicate on their applications that they wish to have scores considered, will be unable to switch their application to test-optional at a later point in time. Once scores become part of a student's file, they cannot be removed. Students who apply as test-optional candidates and later wish to have the Admission Committee consider their standardized test results may request to do so in writing at bcapplicant@bc.edu. For full consideration, students should contact us directly as close to our deadlines as possible. How do I know if I should submit my scores? Like any other portion of an application, strong performance can improve a student's candidacy and weak performance can hinder it. We provide mid-50% ranges for enrolled students to provide you with context as you assess whether or not to submit your scores. Does this policy apply to international students? Yes. International students will still be required to demonstrate English language proficiency via TOEFL, IELTS, or Duoligo English Test results. This English language proficiency requirement may be waived for students who speak English as their native language, have attended a US high school for at least three years in a non-ESOL curriculum, or submit standardized test results including scores of 650 or greater on the SAT EBRW or 29 or greater on the ACT English section. Learn more here. Does this policy apply to home-schooled students? Yes. That said, because the Admission Committee has little context in which to evaluate home-schooled students’ academic results, standardized test results are extremely helpful to the Admission Committee. Home-schooled applicants are strongly encouraged to submit credentials that allow us to put their applications in context with others in our pool. Other quantitative measures that students may also consider submitting include AP exam scores and/or college coursework. Official college transcripts should be submitted for all college courses completed. Does this policy apply to athletic recruits? Yes. NCAA has removed the test score requirement for athletic eligibility in the 2022-23 admission cycle. The NCAA has not yet determined an eligibility policy for the 2023-24 admission cycle or beyond. Recruited athletes are responsible for ensuring their NCAA eligibility. Will students who do not submit standardized test results be eligible for the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program? Yes. All applicants who submit their admission applications by November 1 will be eligible for consideration of one of 18 Presidential Scholarships. Learn more about applying for the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program. Will Boston College remain test-optional in the future? At Boston College, standardized testing provides meaningful context as we evaluate candidates with varying degrees of curricular rigor across more than 8,000 high schools from which we receive applications. Our research has routinely demonstrated that the inclusion of standardized testing as part of our holistic review provides the greatest predictive value toward ensuring student success. To that end, we will study academic performance metrics for BC’s first test-optional classes (the Class of 2025 and 2026) to inform future policy decisions. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Jobs at BC Give Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College