<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Ana Kotevska Tracey MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” What’s in a name? I grew up in Skopje, the capital of present-day North Macedonia, a small country in the Balkans. I say “present-day”, because during my childhood, we called ourselves Macedonian, half of the world referred to us as former-Yugoslav, and many, in the neighboring countries, publicly debated our ethnicity and right to self-determine. My national identity has been questioned and negated. Scornful customs officers scoffed at the name on my passport. Kids I met in the region kept telling me my country shouldn’t exist. And along that road I emerged—more eager than ever to define and express my own personal, multifaceted identity. And my identity—a dedication to mentorship that evolved from my traditional Balkan upbringing, and a passion for innovation spawned from my childhood curiosity—has guided my actions since. It is portable; it boarded planes with me to Harvard for college, New York and Toronto for work, and then onward to HBS and beyond. A lot is in a name; for starters, the right to be and exist as you see yourself. I dedicate my life and career to helping others find their authentic voice and shape an identity that anchors them. — Ana Kotevska Tracey The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College