COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Student Conduct and Community Standards Section Menu Home Conduct Processes and Procedures About Us Academic Integrity Processes and Procedures Recognized Student Organization Discipline FERPA Release of Information Student Behavior in Academic Settings Student Conduct and Community Standards To file a report of misconduct involving the Student Code of Conduct, Housing and Residence Life Handbook, Academic Integrity, Discrimination, Title IX, etc., or to submit a corncern to the Care Team or the Student Advocate, please click the "FILE A REPORT" button below. Additionally, if you are wanting to file an appeal regarding a conduct or academic integrity case outcome, please click the "CONDUCT APPEAL" or "ACADEMIC INTEGRITY APPEAL" buttons below. If you are unsure if the behavior is a violation or how to categorize it, please fee free to contact the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards at (316) 978-6681 to discuss the best options. FILE A REPORT CONDUCT APPEAL ACADEMIC INTEGRITY APPEAL SANCTION SUBMISSION - STUDENT SANCTION SUBMISSION - CAMPUS PARTNER Site Navigation Conduct Processes and Procedures Academic Integrity Processes and Procedures Recognized Student Organization Discipline FERPA Release of Information About Us Hearing Board The Student Conduct Hearing Board and Academic Integrity Committee hears cases involving Code of Conduct violations. The Boards are responsible for determining whether it is more likely than not that an incident occurred and, if so, what educational sanctions are most appropriate given the situation. Board members have the unique opportunity to uphold University policies while promoting peer accountability and education. Please send an email if you would like information on serving as a Student Conduct Hearing Board or Academic Integrity Member. Email Us! Resources Wichita State University Police Department Wichita State University Police Department 316-978-3450 Public safety is one of the primary goals of the Wichita State University Police Department. Effective partnerships between university police and all community members help reduce the opportunities for crime to occur. We believe all community members have the responsibility to promptly report suspected criminal behavior and safety concerns. Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance OIEC The Office of Institutional Equity and Compliance is committed to preventing and eliminating discrimination or harassment based on race color, national origin, pregnancy, sex age, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation or political philosophy. Student Advocate Student Advocate The Student Advocate is an executive, non-partisan member of the Student Government Association at WSU. The Student Advocate is available to assist students with problems that haven't been resolved by other offices on campus. Parking Information Parking Information 316-978-3333 WSU students, faculty, staff and visitors wishing to park on campus during the enforcement period must register online with the Shocker Parking Management System to park legally University Counseling and Prevention Services University Counseling and Prevention Services 316-978-3440 Counseling & Prevention Services provides a range of services designed to help students, faculty and staff succeed in their academic work and personal lives. Care Team Care Team Wichita State cares about the health and safety of all members of our campus community. The purpose of the University's Care Team is to apply a multidisciplinary approach to preventing individuals from harming themselves or others, and generally to assist persons in need. These persons include members of the university community as well as community members who may pose a threat and or disruption to our campus community. Student Advocate Student Advocate A member of Student Government Association who is available to assist students. Wichita Area Sexual Assault Center Wichita Area Sexual Assault Center 316-263-3002, 1-877-WASAC4U 355 N. Waco, suite 100, Wichita, KS 67202 Wichita Area Sexual Assault Center offers a 24-hour a day crisis line. The center additionally provides support and information to people who have been victimized by sexual assault at any time in their lives, as an adult or a child. The center will provide a support staff to meet and stay at the hospital with a victim of sexual assault. The staff member will explain the process of what to expect next and answer any questions. They also provide emotional support through ongoing counseling and support groups and may provide legal services and court advocacy if needed, free and confidentially. All services provided by the Wichita Area Sexual Assault Center are available for males as well as females regardless of sexual orientation. Wichita Family Crisis Center Wichita Family Crisis Center Office: (316) 263-7501 24-Hour Crisis Line: (316) 267- SAFE / (316) 267-7233 The YWCA shelter houses hundreds of women and children. The YWCA provides safe/confidential housing, basic needs, advocacy, crisis and supportive counseling, domestic violence education, parenting, support groups, agency referrals, and a children's program. Comcare of Sedgwick County Comcare of Sedgwick County Tel: (316) 660-7600 TTY: (316) 267-0267 24 Hour Crisis Line (316) 660-7500 635 N. Main, Wichita, KS 67203 COMCARE provides a wide array of mental health and substance abuse services to residents of Sedgwick County. COMCARE is the largest of the 27 Community Mental Health Centers in the State of Kansas and is committed to helping individuals served lead more productive lives. City of Wichita Police Department City of Wichita Police Department 316-268-4111 455 N. Main St, suite 501 Wichita, KS 67202 Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Wichita, Kansas 67260 SCCS@wichita.edu (316) 978-6681 Fax: (316) 978-6458 Shocker Hall A1060 Monday - Friday 8 am - 5 pm 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©