Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News College of Medicine to participate in national effort to assess... May 31, 2022 College of Medicine joins national effort to improve teaching clinical reasoning skills Summer financial aid and registration May 31, 2022 Information about summer financial aid and registration. Local Information: May 29, 2022 May 31, 2022 On May 29, 2022, police responded to Straight Street for a sexual assault report. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove External email header coming to faculty, staff June 8 May 24, 2022 Beginning Wednesday, June 8, UC faculty and staff email accounts will automatically add an external email header to any incoming messages sent from a non-UC affiliated email address. UC names chief digital officer May 19, 2022 UC President Neville Pinto announces hiring of Bharath Prabhakaran to guide the University of Cincinnati’s digital transformation. New sites available now on Bearcats Landing April 27, 2022 UC’s faculty and staff intranet, Bearcats Landing, increases transparency, facilitates common business practices, and provides a platform for university-wide internal communication. Learn about the new sites launching this Spring Semester 2022. UC network upgrade planned in May April 25, 2022 UC’s network connection to OARnet, the university’s internet service provider, will undergo overnight maintenance twice in May — 2 a.m., Wednesday, May 4, and 2 a.m., Sunday, May 8. No interruptions to network service are planned or expected as part of these necessary equipment upgrades. Student access to WebEx ends May 5 April 4, 2022 Zoom replaced WebEx as the university’s official web conferencing tool for online and hybrid teaching and learning. Access to your UC WebEx account ends Thursday, May 5, 2022. Expect changes to WebEx access March 30, 2022 Zoom replaced WebEx as the university’s official web conferencing tool for teaching and learning. Access to WebEx licenses will be limited to areas with specific business needs when the final stage of the WebEx-to-Zoom transition ends. Shred your unwanted papers on The Commons on March 30 March 15, 2022 Drop off your professional or personal documents to ensure they are securely destroyed and recycled at the Shred Event on The Commons between A&S and TUC Wednesday, Mar. 30, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. (OR until the truck is full!). Bearcats Landing intranet gains national attention February 17, 2022 Higher education representatives from around the country participate in a virtual demonstration of Bearcats Landing to learn more about the internal communication platform used by UC faculty and staff. Limited IT support offered during winter season days December 14, 2021 The IT@UC Service Desk will be closed during winter season days. Visit the IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB) for general support and self-help resources. Or, access 24/7 Canopy Support for Canvas and tools within Canvas. Don't Fall for These Phishy Tricks December 2, 2021 Need to know newsletter from the UC Office of Information Security New sites available now on Bearcats Landing December 1, 2021 New sites available now on Bearcats Landing as fall semester site builds are completed. Update Your UC Zoom Account October 26, 2021 Zoom has postponed the Monday, Nov. 1 deadline for all UC Zoom account owners (students, faculty, and staff) to use version 5.5 or higher. We will notify you of the rescheduled deadline to upgrade Zoom as soon it’s available to us. Thank you for your support! Take the Week 4 Trivia Challenge October 25, 2021 Students, faculty, and staff members who take the weekly #BeCyberSmart Trivia Challenge and provide their email address will be entered into the Cybersecurity Champion Prize Drawing to win fun prizes each Thursday in October. Final ‘Strength in Immunity’ vaccination drawing winners... October 7, 2021 The University of Cincinnati is awarding prizes in the weekly ‘Strength in Immunity’ drawing. To further encourage vaccination against COVID-19, the university is conducting weekly drawings for gift cards in varying amounts of $2,500 or $5,000. In all, the university will award nearly $50,000. October is cybersecurity awareness month September 27, 2021 Throughout the month of October, we’ll share a variety of resources to help you outsmart cyberthreats and protect you and your family from online attacks. We encourage you to read and share the information with your colleagues, friends, and family! Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top