Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Faculty Awards Faculty Honors Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Faculty Honors 2022 Merlin Chowkwanyun, PhD, Donald Gemson Assistant Professor of Sociomedical Sciences, was selected by the Interdisciplinary Association for Population Health Science (IAPHS) Board and Membership as the 2022 recipient of the Milbank Quarterly Early Career Award in Population Health. The award recognizes significant contributions to population health science by an individual who has received the PhD, MD, or a comparable graduate degree no more than ten years before the year of the award. Learn more. Diana Hernandez, PhD, associate professor of Sociomedical Sciences, is one of the winners of the Inaugural 40 under 40 Public Health Catalyst Award presented by Boston Congress of Public Health (BCPH). The cohort represents the next generation of leaders, entrepreneurs, researchers, scientists, activists, intellectual provocateurs, authors, and directors who inspire and catalyze us all to a more just and equitable world. Learn more. Mara Minguez, MD, MSc, assistant professor of Population and Family Health and Pediatrics, was selected as a 2022 National Hispanic Medical Association Leadership Fellow for her outstanding accomplishments and proven dedication to the Hispanic community. Learn more. Melissa DuPont, PhD, assistant professor of Sociomedical Sciences and Epidemiology, will serve as a grant application reviewer for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR) upcoming Rehabilitation Research and Training Centers (RRTC): Equity Center in the Employment Domain grant competition. Zhezhen Jin, PhD, professor of Biostatistics, has been named a Fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics for demonstrating distinction in research in statistics and leadership that has influenced the profession. His contributions have been ground-breaking in important areas of statistics and biostatistics, including survival analysis, resampling methods, and statistical computing. Merlin Chowkwanyun, PhD, Donald Gemson Assistant Professor of Sociomedical Sciences and principal investigator of the Toxic Docs project (www.toxicdocs.org), received a new three-year grant from the National Science Foundation to expand the collection of documents in the project, the world’s largest database of material on toxic substances for academic researchers, environmental health scientists, journalists, and policy analysts. The $350,000 grant for this new iteration will go towards leveraging recent innovations that allow for even larger-scale, mass digitization of documents, and a companion site, Toxic Tools (www.toxicdocs.tools), for users to have new ways of probing the material beyond a full-text search. It also includes a new Freedom of Information Act wing that will use responses from public records requests. Chowkwanyun was also selected as one of the 2022-2023 recipients for the Center for Environmental Health and Justice in Northern Manhattan (CEHJNM)'s Career Development Award for his ongoing research. Alwyn Cohall, MD, professor of Sociomedical Sciences and Population and Family Health, was named 2022-2023 Vanneck-Bailey Scholar. The award is given annually to support a Columbia Medical Center faculty member to develop educational programs that will “ensure that its students are among the finest physicians entering the profession, skilled in the knowledge and practice of medicine and modeling compassionate, humanistic care to all patients.” With the support of the Vanneck-Bailey Scholar Award, Dr. Cohall proposes “to support content creation, service-learning activities, and exposure to individuals with lived experience in the carceral system as means of building a curriculum responsive to recommendations set forth by the AAMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Competencies which broadly call for the expansion of learning opportunities addressing health care inequities arising from systemic racism and personal bias.” Nour Makarem, PhD, assistant professor of Epidemiology received the Trudy Bush Award for Cardiovascular Disease Research in Women’s Health, to be presented during the EPI | Lifestyle 2022 Scientific Sessions in Chicago. Makarem was recognized at the Annual Joint Council Dinner on Thursday, March 3. The award is named for Trudy Bush, PhD, MHS, who was also a former faculty member at Columbia Public Health, to honor her outstanding leadership in the field of women’s health and contributions to cardiovascular science. Quarraisha Abdool Karim, PhD, professor of Epidemiology, and Salim Abdool Karim, PhD, MBBCH, DSc, professor of Global Health, were awarded the VinFuture Special Prize for Innovators from Developing Countries for their groundbreaking research on HIV prevention in South Africa. The $500,000 prize recognizes the work of scientists in the developing world. Read more Gary Miller, PhD, professor of Environmental Health Sciences, was named an AAAS Fellow, one of 5 faculty from Columbia. American Association for the Advancement of Science is the world's largest scientific society. Miller is being recognized for his work in pharmacology, toxicology, and neuroscience, particularly in understanding neurotransmitter storage, Parkinson’s Disease, and how non-genetic factors influence health. He is responsible for popularizing the idea of the exposome—how things like living conditions, diet, pollution, and other environmental factors trigger changes in the body that can lead to disease and shorter lifespans. More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022May 17 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later LifeMay 12 2022 Public Health Leaders Urge SCOTUS to Uphold Roe v. WadeMay 4 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers