Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students > January 14, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff January 14, 2021: Update on COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Dear Colleagues, Vaccinations are continuing today, January 14, for individuals in Phase 1a and 1b. Phase 1a includes all frontline, high-risk public health workers who have direct contact with patients, including those conducting COVID-19 tests, handling COVID-19 specimens, and administering COVID-19 vaccinations. Phase 1b includes individuals age 65 and older, education workers (through grade 12), in-person college faculty and instructors, and public transit and public safety employees as well as some additional frontline workers. NYP and ColumbiaDoctors patients and the community can be vaccinated at The Armory, at 168th and Fort Washington. Appointments can be made through Connect and appointment availability can be checked on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. We know that some of our patients may face challenges accessing the electronic system, and we have alternatives in place to help enroll patients into Connect as well as to help those without access to internet. Columbia University employees age 75 and older will be able to receive vaccinations in Alumni Auditorium in the Black Building, through Friday. Columbia University employees ages 65 - 74 must make an appointment through Connect, and they will receive vaccinations at The Armory, located at 168th and Fort Washington. Only those university employees who have received a personalized letter from the University Covid Director should go to the Black Building for vaccination Employee Vaccination Locations and Hours for the Remainder of This Week and the Weekend Days Locations and Hours Thursday Myrna Daniels Auditorium: 2nd doses will be administered from 6 am - 9 pm Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital Tower 103: 2nd doses will be administered from 6 am - 1 pm; staff will be directed to Myrna Daniels Auditorium from 1 pm - 9 pm Alumni Auditorium, Black Building: 1st doses will be administered from 6 am - 9 pm Friday Myrna Daniels Auditorium: 2nd doses will be administered from 6 am - 9 pm MSCH Tower 103 will be closed; staff are directed to Myrna Daniels 6 am - 9 pm Black Building: 1st doses will be administered from 6 am - 9 pm Saturday 1st and 2nd doses will be administered in the Myrna Daniels Auditorium in Milstein Hospital from noon to 8 pm. There are no morning hours. Anyone who has a second dose appointment on Saturday morning should instead come between noon and 8 pm. Sunday and Monday There are no Sunday or Monday hours. Anyone who has an appointment on Sunday should instead come Saturday between noon and 8 pm. Columbia employees who work at the Allen Hospital and Lawrence Hospital can be vaccinated there, on site, 6:45 am to 4 pm through Saturday this week. We ask again that you please do not come to be vaccinated if you have not received specific instructions from the University COVID Director. New York State requires self-attestation that must be signed at the vaccination site attesting that a person is eligible for vaccination based on the current phases of distribution. On site facilities staff have the list of names of eligible people for this week. Things to Keep in Mind for Second Dose Vaccinations (Individuals in Phase 1a) Second dose reminders will be sent via Connect. For questions about where/when to go for your second dose on each campus, please go to the Employee Information section on the VaccineTogetherNY.org site. This link also contains information about how to sign up for Connect. Information is also available at 646.697.VACC. Please note that many second dose appointments are now generically being made at 7 am on the day it is due, but you do not need to come at 7 am. You can come anytime that day but again please make sure to come that day. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) The FAQ documents on the CUIMC COVID Vaccine Information page continue to be updated, so please check the site for the latest versions. Below is the Question of the Day: I wanted to know if there are any issues regarding diabetes and the vaccine? People with diabetes are at increased risk of severe COVID-19 disease and thus were intentionally enrolled in the clinical trials. Based on data from clinical trials, the COVID-19 vaccines appear to be safe and effective in people with diabetes. Thank you and hope you continue to stay safe! Magda Sobieszczyk, MD, MPH Chief of Infectious Diseases and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Melissa Stockwell, MD, MPH Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Health and Co-Chair of the CUIMC COVID-19 Vaccine Committee Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top