Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » Current UHP Students » Learning Portfolios » Structure and Content Set Navigation title in component UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences Honors Seminars Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved UHP Ambassadors Meet the Team Madalyn O'Dea Somya Sharma Zakaria Bodiford Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP Welcome Experience Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Structure and Content Your learning portfolio showcases your learning experiences at UC, both within and outside of University Honors. The structure and requirements are intentionally designed to help you reflect on your experiences regularly, which allows you to maximize each opportunity. The content of your learning portfolio should reflect your values and personality, while maintaining a professional image and tone. The following sections are required in your learning portfolio: About Me Page Showcase Each Experience Year-in-Review Page It's important to note that students always have the option to keep learning portfolios private. If privacy is a concern, we suggest students use sites that offer free password protection. Advisors are happy to discuss these options with students at any time. About Me Page What is the purpose? The author page is an important part of any learning portfolio, blog or website. What you choose to include on this page should provide insight into who you are, what you like to do and learn, and your accomplishments and dreams. The page should also introduce the contents of your learning portfolio to the reader. You will initially create this page in your Gateway to University Honors course, but it should be updated periodically afterwards. What could be included? Pictures or videos of you A written or visual description of your background, academic pursuits, and potential future goals during your time at UC and beyond. Resume-- Consider your field and what type of personal information you are posting at all times though. Portfolios are generally public. Showcase Each Experience What is the purpose? The showcase page is the last step to any honors experience, and it provides you with an opportunity to share what you've learned or taken away. You’ll reflect on how th experience made an impact on you and how you may utilize those lessons in the future. You’ll use one or more of the reflection models introduced to you in Gateway to University Honors to guide you in the creation of the content for each page. Learn more on our reflection page. What could be included? Describe the experience and consider your audience as you reflect and integrate in your studies, activities, hobbies or future experiences. Share an artifact, which is something that represents an important feature of your experience. Articulate why you chose this particular artifact to represent your experience. Use the Learning Portfolio Showcase Guide for showcasing honors experiences and other activities in your learning portfolio. How often should I update? The showcase page should be completed within one month of completing your experience. You are encouraged to update and revise your showcase pages as you continue to explore the topics you initially learned. Year-in-Review Page What is the purpose? At the end of each academic year and prior to June 5, you are required to provide a Year-in-Review page. This page is your opportunity to reflect upon your learning throughout the previous year and to share goals, hopes, ideas and dreams for your learning in the upcoming year. You’ve already reflected on individual courses and experiences in your learning portfolio, so this summary is the “big picture” overview of what you learned this year. Taking a look at year after year of your reflections gives you additional insight to recognize how you use your strengths and skills to pursue your passions. How often should I update? You will update your Year-in-Review page annually at the beginning of each summer by the June 5 deadline. Use the Year-In-Review page to identify some creative approaches and prompts to use. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top