Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Office of the Student Experience Orientation and Transition Programs Orientation and Transition Programs Mustang StartUp Stampede First 5 Leadership Programs Leadership Programs Leadership Development & Training Programs Leadership Experiences Leadership Framework Parent and Families Parent and Families Parent and Family Resources About Us ☰ Office of the Student Experience SMU Student Affairs Office of the Student Experience Office of the Student Experience The Office of the Student Experience designs a comprehensive student experience supporting students and their families from orientation to graduation. Using a leadership framework, all students are guided through significant collegiate transitions. Family members receive guidance on supporting their students on the journey towards graduation. With recognition of the unique needs of veterans, graduate, transfer, and international students, the office also advocates for and provides support to these special populations. Orientation and Transition Programs Learn more about Orientation and Transition Programs! Leadership Programs Learn more about Leadership Programs! Parent and Family Programs Learn more about Parent and Family Programs! Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share