Skip to main content Admissions Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Admissions Only Boise State Admissions At Boise State, we break norms and blaze new trails. We explore, experience and innovate. It’s what drives a mindset we call Blue Turf Thinking. It’s about seeing things differently, being creative, finding new solutions, and imagining the possibilities of what could be. Here, you’ll discover opportunities to maximize your potential and achieve more in a thriving, tight-knit community so that you’re prepared and ready for what’s next. So, how will you make an impact? Blue Turf Thinkers Wanted. About Boise State Admissions Apply Visit Student Life Explore Academics Cost and Value Next Steps for Admitted Students Connect with Us! More section menu items Ready to Visit Campus, Request Info, or Apply? Whether you’re new to college, a transfer student, a homeschool student or an international student, Boise State wants to make it easy for you to learn about us, connect and apply. Visit Campus Take a tour of Boise State Visit Campus Take a tour of Boise State Connect with us! Contact us and request info Connect with us! Contact us and request info Apply Now Start your application Apply Now Start your application Ignite your future. Blaze new trails. From day one at Boise State, you’ll have the people, programs and opportunities at your fingertips to make your college experience a success. With endless opportunities to connect with like-minded students through countless clubs and organizations, you’ll feel an instant sense of belonging and the freedom to be yourself. Learn more about Student Life Important Dates & Events We’re here to help make each step toward becoming a Bronco a smooth experience. To stay in the know about important deadlines and upcoming opportunities to learn more about life at Boise State, see below! Spring 2022 Scholarship Deadline: October 1 Standard Application Deadline: December 1 Fall 2023 Standard Application Deadline: May 1 Nonresident Application and Scholarship Deadline: December 15 Resident Application and Scholarship Deadline: February 15 To see when classes begin, university holidays, and more, check out the Registrar’s Academic Calendar. Find your rep and scholarships, or join BroncoConnect We have a team of skilled admissions counselors ready to help you navigate your admissions process. Scholarships and other financial aid is also available. BroncoConnect helps you seamlessly transfer from CWI and CSI to Boise State. Find Your Rep Contact your Admissions Counselor Find Your Rep Contact your Admissions Counselor Cost and Value Tuition Fees, Financial Aid, and Value Cost and Value Tuition Fees, Financial Aid, and Value Join BroncoConnect Transfer from CWI and CSI Join BroncoConnect Transfer from CWI and CSI Watch Virtual Bronco Day 2022 If you missed our annual Bronco Day event this spring, not to worry. Check out the stream from our live hosted virtual event to get the scoop on campus life, housing, academic programs and what it’s like to be a college student in Boise! Watch Virtual Bronco Day Boise State Admissions admissions@boisestate.edu 208-426-1156 1910 University Dr. Boise, 83725-1320 Follow Us Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Youtube Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University Back To Top