Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close About Harvard Serving our neighbors Harvard is committed to giving back to the places we call home through building and sustaining strong partnerships, providing educational and employment opportunities, and driving research and innovation that benefit our cities and state. About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More How we give back From long-standing public school partnerships in Cambridge and Boston, to cutting-edge research, generous financial aid, strategic partnerships, and many more mission-driven programs across our cities and state, we are committed to enriching our home communities. Visit Connecting Harvard and the Community Harvard’s local and statewide impact Learn more about the work we do across Cambridge, Boston, and Massachusetts in our annual reports. See more Facts & Impact reports $19.3 million in scholarships awarded to Harvard College students from MA in 2020-2021 academic year. $898 million in research funding attracted to Massachusetts by Harvard in the 2020 fiscal year. 4,465 patents held by Harvard as of July 2021. 5th largest employer of Massachusetts residents. $1.56 billion in construction, supplies, and services directed towards Massachusetts-based companies and organizations in the 2020 fiscal year. Leading locally Harvard University is committed to a mission of teaching, learning, and research, shaping a vibrant and shared future for the betterment of our neighbors and communities around the world. Learn more about our work in Boston, Cambridge, and Massachusetts. Visit Lead Locally to learn more about our impact Help at home Medical immersion for students shifts online in pandemic Read the story After COVID hiatus, Harvard’s Family Van gears up again Read the story LabXchange produces new digital antiracism resources Read the story Upcoming local events More local events Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of Natural History (HMNH) presents lectures and exhibitions to enhance public understanding and appreciation of the natural world and the human place in it. HMNH also offers yearlong adult classes, professional development for educators, kids programs, and family activities. Discover more at the Harvard Museum of Natural History Harvard Ed Portal The Harvard Ed Portal brings the Harvard and Allston-Brighton communities together through learning, exploring ideas, and embracing a diversity of participants. Programs include programs for youth and adults; including K-12 mentoring, clubs, arts, career and economic development, wellness, and digital and online learning opportunities. 106 Allston-Brighton students participated across youth programs, including mentoring and free academic support. 1,650 Boston residents participanted across all the workforce development programs. $350,000+ in estimated sales generated by vendors, including through the online Winter Market. $3 million in Harvard funding provided in support of affordable homeownership in Allston-Brighton through the All Bright Homeownership Program. Explore opportunities at the Harvard Ed Portal HarvardX The HarvardX portal enables learners around the globe to gain access to Harvard’s collection of free online courses. Online courses in a variety of subjects can be audited for free or students can choose to receive a verified certificate for a small fee. Explore HarvardX courses LabXchange LabXchange, developed by Harvard, is a free science education platform that brings the lab virtually anywhere by curating and creating world-class digital content. Teachers, families, and individuals can use this resource to learn or teach online with virtual classrooms, lab simulations, and more. 26,000+ Massachusetts educators, students, and lifelong learners supported. 110 school and institutional collaborators. Explore LabXchange More free courses and learning opportunities Technology Entrepreneurship: Lab to Market Explore how entrepreneurs build successful businesses by moving technology from lab to market. edx.org Exercising Leadership: Foundational Principles Mobilize people to tackle tough problems and build the capacity to thrive through the dangers of change. edx.org Tangible Things: Discovering History Through Artworks, Artifacts, Scientific Specimens, and the Stuff Around You Gain an understanding of history, museum studies, and curation by looking at, organizing, and interpreting art, artifacts, scientific curiosities, and the stuff of everyday life. edx.org Local stories We strive to strengthen the vibrant communities that surround us. Read more local stories in the Harvard Gazette Harvard Votes Challenge used different paths toward common goal A day along the Charles River Harvard recommits $20 million to create affordable housing in Greater Boston Greater Boston is facing a housing crisis that is hitting lower-income and working-class residents particularly hard. To combat the crisis, Harvard University is recommitting $20 million toward local affordable housing. Trending stories Many happy returns Triple the joy: Harvard Commencement photos A call to public service Sherrilyn Ifill receives Radcliffe Medal Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00