Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Geriatric Psychiatry Fellowship Training Program The Brown University Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior’s Geriatric Psychiatry Fellowship Training Program is an intensive clinical experience designed to equip future practitioners with all the skills needed for the practice of geriatric psychiatry and to train the future leaders in geriatric psychiatry. The program is an ACGME approved 12-month fellowship. During the training year, fellows divide their time in a variety of clinical settings including rotations with multidisciplinary staff in a wide range of hospital and community settings including: The Geriatric Inpatient Unit, Consultation-Liaison service, VA outpatient geriatric psychiatry clinic, Movement disorders clinic, nursing homes, home based health care, outpatient geriatric medicine and neuropathology. There are opportunities for electives in TMS and ECT as well. We provided supervised clinical teaching at the following sites: Butler Hospital, The Miriam Hospital, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence Veterans Administration Hospital and Kent Hospital. Faculty members include board-certified geriatric psychiatrists who are devoted to excellent supervision and teaching during all rotations. In addition, the program offers a comprehensive didactic series in conjunction with Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Medicine Fellowship at Brown. Didactics cover topics related to significant aspects of geriatric care in the areas of medicine and psychiatry. We also offer are wide range of opportunities for teaching within the clinical environment. Many of our fellows with work with medical students and other trainees with the Warren Alpert School of Medicine at Brown University. Home The Faculty Applicants Fellows Useful Links Contact Us Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior Home Page Print this Page Share this Page Brown University Box G-BH Providence, RI 02906 Phone 401-455-6430 [email protected] The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift