Skip to main content Skip to main content SMU Home Giving Giving Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Simmons About Dean's Message Programs, Degrees, and Certifications Faculty and Staff Directory Simmons Governance Simmons School History Executive Board Simmons Luminary Award XPRIZE Honor Code Simmons Resources Travel-Study Programs Simmons Lecture Series AERA 2022 Graduation Ceremony May 2022 Paving the Way to Inclusion Conference Simmons Graduate Council Faculty and Administrative Position Openings Simmons Blogs and Social Media Hub Annette Caldwell Simmons Hall Harold Clark Simmons Hall Photo Tour Contact Us Academic Departments & Areas of Study Applied Physiology & Wellness B.S. | Applied Physiology & Sport Mgmt. Undergraduate Specializations Applied Physiology and Health Management Sport Management Sport Performance Leadership M.S. | Health Promotion Management M.S. | Sport Management Non-Degree | Wellness Dispute Resolution & Counseling M.S. | Counseling Specialties Clinical Mental Health Marriage, Couple and Family School Counseling M.A. | Dispute Resolution Non-Degree | Dispute Resolution Specialties Executive Coaching Education Policy & Leadership M.Ed. | PK-12 School Leadership M.Ed. | Higher Education Ed.D. | PK-12 School Leadership Ed.D. | Higher Education Graduate Liberal Studies MLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities DLS | Science, Arts, & Humanities Non-Degree | Science, Arts, & Humanities Ph.D. in Education Teaching & Learning B.S. | M.Ed | MBE | Ph.D. Graduate Specializations Bilingual Special Ed ESL Gifted Literacy Math STEM Urban Education Research Research A comprehensive list of Simmons research projects Faculty Research Publications & Presentations Recent research publications and presentations Center on Research & Evaluation (CORE) Offers comprehensive program evaluation services, largely in the non-profit sector, and performs education research Research in Mathematics Education Conducts research in mathematics education and disseminates findings Integrative Physiology Laboratory Investigates autonomic function and thermoregulation in healthy and clinical populations Locomotor Performance Laboratory Studies terrestrial locomotion and the relationship of muscle function to metabolic energy expenditure and performance Center for VR Learning Innovation Investigates the use of virtual, augmented and mixed reality for education and human development Youth Sports Impact Partnership SMU and the Children’s Health Andrews Institute have launched a collaboration dedicated to improving the health, activity levels, and well-being of kids. Research Resources for Simmons Faculty and Staff Technology and Education Cluster Our Faculty Community Engagement Advanced Placement Summer Institute Summer Institute for AP and Pre-AP Teachers The Budd Center Partners with community agencies to offer educational opportunities for disadvantaged children Center for Family Counseling Counseling services in Plano for individuals and families College Access Programs Programs and workshops that help students advance academically Institute for Leadership Impact Leaders in education, health and social enterprise enhance skills to lead organizations and solve real-world problems Project Connect A repository of ideas, activities and videos for educators interested in improving instruction for English Language Learners West Dallas STEM-Focused School Preparing students for the next generation of STEM jobs Alumni Search Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Counseling Master of Science in Counseling Master of Science in Counseling Admission and Financial Information SMU Masters in Counseling Program Scholarships Annual Student Handbooks Program Calendar 2021-2022 Course Schedule Curriculum Resources Graduate Writing Center Services About Faculty and Staff Center for Family Counseling Resources ☰ Curriculum Counseling Graduate Studies Master of Science in Counseling Curriculum The Master of Science in Counseling degree requires the completion of 63 credit hours, written and oral comprehensive exams, and an internship. Classes are delivered over 15-week terms. Clinical Mental Health Specialty Marriage, Couple and Family Specialty School Counseling Specialty The common curriculum for all three Specialties include: Requirements* HDCN 6320: Life Span Human Development: Individual and Family (required to take as 1st course in the program of study) HDCN 6302: Basic Clinical Methods for Individuals, Couples, and Families (required to take in 1st or 2nd term of enrollment) HDCN 6301: Counseling Theories: Individual and Systemic Perspectives (recommended to take as 3rd course in the program of study) HDCN 6316: Family Therapy I: Intergenerational Theories and Treatment HDCN 6303: Group Counseling HDCN 6304: Counseling Diverse Communities HDCN 6318: Ethics I and Professional Orientation (prerequisite for Ethics and Mental Health II) HDCN 6330: Psychopathology: Adult HDCN 6331: Psychopathology: Child/Adolescent (may take concurrently with Practicum) HDCN 6349: Research Design and Statistics (prerequisite for 6340 Assessment; recommended to take 6349 in their first year of enrollment) HDCN 6340: Assessment HDCN 6319: Ethics II and Mental Health (take as close to Practicum as possible) HDCN 6305: Advanced Clinical Methods for Individuals, Couples and Families (pre-practicum; take as close to Practicum as possible) HDCN 6321: Lifestyle & Career Development (may take concurrently with Practicum) HDCN 6352: Psychology of Addictions (may take concurrently with Practicum) * Students must complete all core classes (except as noted above) for a total of 45 credit hours before starting Practicum. Students are advised to take one or more electives that will qualify them to work with populations of interest during Practicum (e.g., children, couples, families) HDCN 6395: Supervised Clinical Practicum I HDCN 6398: Internship I HDCN 6399: Internship II Curriculum Clinical Mental Health Specialty Marriage, Couple and Family Specialty School Counseling Specialty Concentrations and Electives Upcoming Events Request info Contact the SMU Program in Counseling Call or Email Us 214-768-5678 counselingmaster@smu.edu Request Information Visit Us SMU East Campus 6116 N. Central Expressway Suite 300 Dallas, Texas 75206 Connect with Us Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 facebook twitter