Confidentiality - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services About Us Confidentiality About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Confidentiality In order to ensure a safe environment for students to explore their personal concerns, all counseling services are confidential. This means that our staff will not reveal the identity of students who seek our services, will not confirm or deny a student's participation in counseling, and will not provide any details about what has been discussed in counseling without the student's written consent. We do not give information to parents or to other offices or departments within the university without a student's written consent. Similarly, information about participation in counseling will not appear on a student's academic records. Students may request to have information shared with the person(s) of their choice and can sign a release granting us permission to share confidential counseling information. However, it is because of the strength of our belief in the importance of you feeling safe about sharing information about yourself with your clinician that we want to inform you of the times when we might legally and/or ethically be required to share information about you without your consent. A summary follows: Information released to other professionals involved in your treatment. Most commonly, this would be the other members of the counseling staff at CAPS, or the psychiatric staff of the University of Houston Student Health Center (“Student Health Center”) if you are also being seen there. If you are under 18, your parents or legal guardian(s) may have access to your records and may authorize their release to other parties. If you are reasonably suspected to be in imminent danger of harming yourself or someone else. If you disclose abuse or neglect of children, the elderly, or a person with a disability. If you disclose sexual misconduct by a therapist. To qualified personnel for certain kinds of program audits or evaluations. In criminal court proceedings. In legal or regulatory actions against a professional. In proceedings in which a claim is made about one's physical, emotional, or mental condition. When disclosure is relevant in any suit affecting the parent-child relationship. This includes divorce and child custody deliberations. Upon the issuance of a court order or lawfully issued subpoena. Where otherwise legally required. The above is considered to be only a summary. If you have questions about specific situations or any aspect of the confidentiality of CAPS records, please ask a member of the counseling staff. Eligibility for CAPS Services UH Students All currently enrolled students at the University of Houston are eligible for clinical services at CAPS. Initial appointments are offered on a walk-in basis between 8:30 am and 4:00 pm, and there is no charge. Summer Eligibility UH Students enrolled in any summer session are eligible for CAPS services. Exception: Students who are enrolled in the upcoming semester are eligible for 1 semester prior to when they begin classes. They need to pay the following fees: $25 Individual Counseling Fee (instead of the standard fee rate). All other services are charged at our standard fee rates. New and Transfer Students Students must be currently enrolled at the University of Houston and paying student services fees in order to receive services at CAPS. Proof of enrollment will be required in the form of a registered class schedule at the time the student presents for the Initial Consultation. Students on Medical Withdrawal In some cases, a client who medically withdraws from UH may continue receiving CAPS services for up to one semester following the semester in which the medical withdrawal was granted. In these cases, the student’s prognosis should indicate that their concerns can be addressed in brief individual or group counseling and that they are actively engaged and committed to their treatment plan. Medical Withdrawal students need to pay the following fees: $25 Individual Counseling Fee (instead of the standard fee rate). All other services are charged at our standard fee rates. UH Faculty and Staff Current UH employees are eligible for crisis triage and referrals. See the current fee schedule. Initial Appointment In order to provide you with timely assistance, initial appointments at CAPS are offered on a walk-in basis. If you are interested in our services, simply come to CAPS at the Main campus between 8:30 am and 4 pm, Monday – Friday. You may also walk-in at the UH at Sugar Land Instructional Site on Mondays and Thursdays between 8:30 am and 4 pm. You should expect about 15 to 20 minutes to complete paperwork, followed by a brief visit with a CAPS clinician. This initial contact is an opportunity for you and a CAPS clinician to determine what kinds of services will best meet your needs. This may include CAPS services or referrals to other campus and community agencies. Please let us know if you will need any accommodations or assistance with completing your paperwork at the time of your visit. If You Are Experiencing a Crisis If you are experiencing a crisis situation and need to speak with someone immediately, please contact CAPS at 713.743.5454 or walk into CAPS. If it is after business hours and you are in imminent crisis, please call 911 or CAPS at 713.743.5454 and you will be connected to the after-hours counselor. Related Links Fees University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies