Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Optical Engineering & Photonics Graduate Degrees Master’s and Ph.D. Programs in Orlando, FL Interested in Pursuing a Graduate Degree in Optical Engineering & Photonics? The UCF College of Optics & Photonics is one of the world’s foremost institutions for research and education in optical and photonics engineering. Our master’s and doctoral students work alongside world-renowned faculty researchers to pioneer new technology in ultrafast lasers, fiber optics, displays, biomedicine and beyond. And our strong industry partnerships in applied science make our candidates highly sought after by such innovative companies as Apple, Microsoft, Google and Facebook. Get More Info Download a brochure to learn more about our Optics and Photonics Programs Get More Info about Optics and Photonics Programs Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Optics and Photonics graduate programs offered at UCF. Loading… Get the Best Master’s Degree in Optics or Photonics Engineering No other optical and photonics engineering graduate program in the United States offers the same exceptional combination of accomplished faculty, advanced facilities and local innovative industry leaders. Our graduates are offered lucrative optical engineering and photonics jobs with industry-leading firms and take advantage of the university’s strong entrepreneurial culture to start their own companies. For physicists and engineers with ambitions to drive the future of technology, a graduate degree from the UCF College of Optics and Photonics delivers an unmatched fusion of excellence, value and results. Learn What Makes Our Graduate Programs Different. 300 Patents produced at the Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers (CREOL) facilities 26 Companies started and incubated at CREOL’s optics and photonics research labs 12th Ranked graduate program in optical physics by U.S. News & World Reports $113,000 Average salary for U.S. optical engineering and photonics jobs (SPIE 2017 Optics & Photonics Global Salary Report) We’re Breaking New Ground in Optical Engineering & Photonics Research at UCF. UCF researchers are changing the paradigm of what’s possible in optics and photonics engineering. Join a graduate program where the next level of technology in lasers, optical fibers, integrated photonics, nonlinear and quantum optics, imaging, sensing and display is being developed right now. In as little as one year, you’ll be primed for an exciting career in industry or research that will pay off in ways you can’t imagine. Learn more about our top ranked graduate programs Optics and Photonics, MS Master’s Program The Masters of Science in optics program is for students with a bachelor’s degree in optical engineering, electrical engineering, physics or a closely related field who want optical engineering jobs, photonics jobs or to go on to earn a Ph.D. Both thesis and non-thesis options are available. Get More Information Optics and Photonics, PhD Doctoral Degree The Optics Ph.D. provides the highest-quality education in optical science and engineering, empowering students to conduct scholarly, fundamental and applied research, while participating in the development of technology-based industries. Get More Information Explore Graduate Programs in Orlando, FL. Study what you love, discover what inspires you. The University of Central Florida has the curriculum, faculty and programs to help you pursue your passion and land your next opportunity. Or Browse By: Master’s Degrees Doctoral Programs Top Optics & Photonics Programs Top Optics & Photonics Programs Optics and Photonics MS Optics and Photonics PhD More Graduate Degrees at UCF More Graduate Degrees Electrical Engineering MSEE Nanotechnology MS Materials Science and Engineering MSMSE Physics PhD View All Master’s Programs Optics & Photonics Research In the News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Research UCF Helps World Recognize Glass is Vital to Art and Technology UCF faculty help plan and execute events to mark the U.S. kickoff of the International Year of Glass in the nation’s capital this week. Colleges & Campus UCF Recognized for Academic Excellence and Advancing Professional Careers in Engineering, Research and Innovation Led by the nation’s No. 3 homeland security program and some of the best engineering and research-innovation programs in the country, U.S. News & World… Using Lasers to ‘Smell’ Disease Professor Konstantin Vodopyanov’s revolutionary technology could make diagnosing disease as easy as exhaling. Read More Additional Resources for Prospective Optics & Photonics Graduate Students Optics Graduate Admissions Information Prospective Student FAQs Graduate Admissions Requirements Graduate Admissions Deadlines Grad School Scholarships and Loans Paying for Graduate School Optics and Photonics Scholarships Research Fellowships Student Loans State Scholarship and Grant Programs Research Centers for Optics and Photonics The Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers (CREOL) The Florida Photonics Center of Excellence (FPCE) The Townes Laser Institute (TLI) Institute for the Frontier of Attosecond Science and Technology (iFAST) Academic Calendar Up Next Withdrawal Deadline June 10 Looking Ahead June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 17 Last Day to Reinstate Drop for Nonpayment Classes Deadline June 24 Registration for UCF Employees, UCF Employees' Spouses and Dependents June 24 Registration for State Employees, UCFAA Employees, Non-Degree, Transients, and Audits June 24 Registration for Senior Citizen Audits University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida