Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Public and Nonprofit Administration Undergraduate Graduate People Giving IPNL Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About the MPA About the MPA Admissions Careers Curriculum Internships FAQs Master of Nonprofit Management (MNM) Take Action Master of Public Administration Master of Nonprofit Management Graduate Certificates Explore SUAPP Follow Us Online Facebook Home PADM MPA Admissions to the MPA program Admissions Requirements for MPA, MNM & Graduate Certificates Applicants for the Master of Public Administration, Master of Nonprofit Management and Graduate Certificate programs must satisfy all requirements for admission to the Graduate School and receive a favorable endorsement from the public administration faculty. Admissions decisions are based on undergraduate GPA and additional information provided by a resume, two letters of recommendation and a personal statement of interest. Standardized examination scores, such as the GRE, GMAT, or MAT, are not required for admission but students are welcome to include examination scores if they wish. The following criteria are used when considering an application: 1) Undergraduate grade point average We generally prefer applicants to have an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.0, or a GPA of 3.0 in their last 60 hours of undergraduate coursework. 2) Résumé documenting previous education and/or experience 3) Two References The applicant provides the names and e-mail addresses of two people you wish to use as references. We will contact them and request they submit a letter of recommendation. 4) Statement of interest This statement should articulate the applicant's experience, career goals and education objectives related to the pursuit of the MPA degree. The personal statement should be 500-700 words in length. 5) OPTIONAL Standardized examination score Applicants are welcome to submit a standardized examination scores to help strengthen their application packet. We take the Graduate Record Examination [GRE], Graduate Management Aptitude Test [GMAT], or Miller Analogy Test [MAT]. (We also accept LSAT scores).These exams are optional and are not required for acceptance into the program. Application Deadlines Semester Deadline Fall Admission July 1 (International Students - May 1) Spring Admission December 1 (International Students - September 15) Summer Admission May 1 (International Students - February 1) First-Time Applicants: 1) Begin your online application at the Graduate School Note: Once you begin, applications can be saved and accessed at a later time. 2) Checklist for Materials Sent to the Graduate School Application to the University of Memphis Graduate School Graduate School Application fee Official transcripts from all institutions of higher education attended Personal statement of 500-700 words explaining why you wish to study public administration and outlining your career goals. A current resume The names and e-mail addresses of two people you wish to use as references OPTIONAL Official standardized examination scores Re-Applications: Students who were previously admitted to the Master of Public Administration, Graduate Certificate in Local Government or Graduate Certificate in Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership program but have stopped out at least one semester (Fall or Spring), must reapply to the program. If you were admitted to a program prior to March 7, 2019 and wish to reapply, click here. If you were admitted to a program after March 7, 2019 and wish to reapply, click here. Previously admitted students will not be required to re-submit transcripts, resume, references or personal statement. Questions about the application process? If you have any questions about the application process, please contact our administrative assistant, Becky Horowitz at 901-678-3360 e-mail rhrowitz@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.