Skip to content ↓ Massachusetts Institute of Technology Education Research Innovation Admissions + Aid Campus Life News Alumni About MIT More ↓ Admissions + Aid Campus Life News Alumni About MIT Menu ↓ Search Menu Explore websites, people, and locations Look up people by “last name sounds like” What are you looking for? See More Results Suggestions or feedback? Spotlight: May 31, 2022 A passion to understand how nature works ignited NSE PhD student Changhao Li’s love of quantum physics. “The basic principles of this world are beautiful and can explain many interesting phenomena,” he says. “This allows me to explore the universe.” May 31, 2022 Full story Share: Twitter Facebook MORE FROM THE MIT COMMUNITY #THISISMIT Via @MIT on Twitter: “That moment when Temi Omitoogun, President, Class of 2022, pauses to take a video during the OneMIT Ceremony.” FEATURED VIDEO MIT salutes the Americans who have given their lives in defense of our nation. Air Force ROTC Cadet Morgan Schaefer plays “Taps” in honor of those we’ve lost. COMMENCEMENT Congratulations, Class of 2022! Friday’s Commencement ceremony celebrated the 1,099 undergraduate and 2,590 graduate students receiving MIT diplomas this year. Alumna Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, director-general of the WTO, delivered the address. FEATURED VIDEO What have this year’s graduates gained from MIT? As Commencement nears, some say: “Courage in tackling the unknown.” “Selective ambition.” “I am better at failing and recovering.” “I no longer strive for perfection.” “I can do so much more.” #THISISMIT Instagram post via @wide_tim: “ConGRADulations to #mitclassof2022 and all the newest MIT graduates about to receive their degrees in the next 2 days!! (also, class of ‘20 and ‘21, welcome back!!) I can’t wait to come witness all the graduation festivities and see everyone fly high in the whole wide world in front of us” COMMUNITY SPOTLIGHT New graduate Ayomikun “Ayo” Ayodeji, an active community builder who is double-majoring in chemical engineering and management, aims to improve electricity access for communities back home in Nigeria, and across the African continent. Massachusetts Institute of Technology Education Research Innovation Admissions + Aid Campus Life Newsnews.mit.edu About MIT Alumni Join us in building a better world. Massachusetts Institute of Technology 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, USA Visit Map Events People Careers Contact Privacy Accessibility Social Media Hub