Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Work at Texas Tech Menu Search TTU Human Resources Home Work at Texas Tech Legal Statement Social Security Number Requirements Section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C.552a) requires that when any Federal, State or local government agency requests an individual to disclose his/her social security number, that individual must also be advised whether that disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, by what statutory or other authority the number is solicited, and what uses will be made of it. Accordingly, employees are advised that an employee's social security number (SSN) is required as a condition for employment within The Texas Tech System and its components, in view of the practical administrative difficulties which would be encountered in maintaining adequate employee records without the continued use of the SSN. For applicants applying through careers.texastech.edu who do not have a SSN, please contact TTU HR at 806-742-3851 . The office can provide a unique number that can be used within our system for tracking purposes. This is a number that should only be used within the online application system, careers.texastech.edu. Selective Service Requirements The University is required by law to verify that new employees, who are required to register, have registered with Selective Service under the requirements established by the federal government and administered through the Selective Service System. Who is Eligible? Male U.S. citizens and male aliens living in the U.S., who are 18-25 years of age, are required to register with the U.S. Selective Service System. Lawful non-immigrants on visas are NOT required to register including men on student or visitor visas. Legal permanent residents ARE required to register. For a complete listing of who is required to register, please reference http://www.sss.gov/PDFs/WhoMustRegisterChart.pdf to view a chart on who must register. How to Register? If you are not registered as required, you are presently not eligible to be hired and should register promptly. Eligible individuals may register on-line at www.sss.gov, at any U.S. Post Office, by mail, or during the application process for Federal Student Financial Aid (FAFAS). Men living overseas may register at any U.S. Embassy or consular office. Should any question arise regarding your registration or eligibility for an exemption, you may request an official "status information" letter from the Selective Service System by calling 847-688-6888 or by sending a written request to the Selective Service System at P.O. Box 94638, Palatine, IL 60094-4638. Under HB 558, enacted by the 76th Texas State Legislature, if you are currently of the age and gender requiring registration with Selective Service, but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for employment with an agency in any branch of Texas state government. Any offer of employment is contingent on your compliance with Selective Service law. Veteran's Preference Information Texas Tech University System and its components will comply with applicable state and federal statutes regarding the employment of veterans. In this section, "veteran" means an individual who served in the army, navy, air force, marine corps, or coast guard of the United States or in an auxiliary service of one of those branches of the armed forces. By law, veterans who are disabled or who served on active duty in the armed forces during certain specified periods or in military campaigns are generally entitled to preference over non-veterans, who do not have greater qualifications, both in Federal hiring practices and in retention during reductions in force. A veteran's surviving spouse who has not remarried or an orphan of a veteran also may qualify for veteran's employment preference if the veteran was killed while on active duty; the veteran served during a national emergency declared in accordance with federal law; and the spouse or orphan is competent. Veteran preference laws do not guarantee veterans a job, nor do they give veterans preference in internal agency actions such as promotion, transfer, reassignment, and reinstatement. Applicants (both internal and external) who qualify to receive the preference must complete and submit the Veteran Status / Veteran's Employment Preference Form and provide a copy of their service discharge form (DD214) or other separation documentation and, if applicable, a DD1300, death, birth and/or marriage certificates. Eligibility for Employment If you are a citizen or national of the U.S. or a lawful Permanent Resident, you are eligible for employment with Texas Tech University System and its components. If you are an alien (not a citizen or national of the U.S. or lawful Permanent Resident), your eligibility for employment is dependent upon your immigration status. Any offer of employment is contingent upon a new hire employee completing the Immigration and Naturalization Service Employment Eligibility Verification (Form I-9) and providing documents to verify your identity and employment eligibility as required by law. When completing the Form I-9, you will be required to attest that you are a citizen or national of the U.S., a lawful Permanent Resident or an alien authorized to work. For additional information regarding Form I-9 documentation, please contact Human Resources. USA Patriot Act Texas Tech is committed to safeguarding its students and employees and eliminating any opportunities for an international terrorist to take advantage of Texas Tech research facilities. The TTU Provost identifies campus research facilities where biological agents, toxins or delivery systems identified by the USA Patriot Act are used. Research laboratory directors identify positions that are involved in working with these biological agents, toxins or delivery systems. Applicants complete employment applications on-line that include questions regarding eligibility to handle select biological agents or toxins. Applicants who answer any of the questions affirmatively are immediately eliminated from consideration for the USA Patriot Act restricted position. Applicants must pass a Department of Justice "Security Clearance" review before they are hired and permitted to work in a lab where a select agent(s) is used. Requesting an Accommodation Texas Tech University System and its components are committed to equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination as outlined in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Texas Tech University System and its components ensure full right of access for persons with disabilities to all terms and conditions of employment, service programs and activities. Employees and applicants will be treated on the basis of their ability to perform essential job functions, with or without reasonable accommodation. To obtain additional information, please contact TTU HR at 806-742-3851. Background Check, Credit Check and Drug Testing As a condition of employment, Texas Tech University System and its components require pre-employment criminal background checks on all new employees. Current employees, who are selected for promotion or reclassification including direct appointments, require criminal background checks prior to the promotion or reclassification becoming effective. Credit checks are conducted if a position requires cash handling or institutional asset management. For security sensitive level II positions, a drug and alcohol test will be required and may require fingerprinting. Any candidate who is not eligible for hire as a result of the background check, credit check, drug testing or fingerprinting will be notified per the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) guidelines. Transcripts For positions requiring a degree or a high school diploma or equivalent, a copy of a transcript from the institution where the highest level of education was achieved may be required at time of hire. Electronic Signature Disclosure This disclosure is being provided to you pursuant to the federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act ("E-Sign Act") codified at 15 USC § 7001 and applicable state law. The E-Sign Act requires certain disclosures be made to consumers prior to their use of electronic signatures. Accordingly, please review the following disclosures carefully: Consent: If you are a consumer being asked to electronically consent to an employment application, your electronic consent shall apply to 1) receiving applicable disclosures and notifications in an electronic form, and 2) using electronic means to sign documents such as employment applications and other electronic documents associated with your recruitment, employment or other business of the requesting organization. If you do not wish to consent to the use of electronic documents, records and signatures, Texas Tech System and it components will not be able to accept your application. Hard Copies: Following your acceptance by electronic signature and submission of an employment application, you will have the opportunity to view and print a .pdf version of the document(s) that you have e-signed and submitted. Withdrawing Consent: Once you have consented to the use of electronic documents, records and signatures, you may withdraw your continuing consent by notifying the appropriate Human Resources Department for assistance withdrawing your employment application. Campus Security In accordance with the guidelines established by the Texas Tech University, the Texas Tech Police Department, and pursuant to the federal law identified as the "Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act", all currently enrolled students, campus employees and all prospective students and prospective employees are entitled to request and receive a copy of the Annual Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Report. The report contains statistics about certain specified crimes and related incidents that have been reported to the Texas Tech Police Department and other Campus Security Authorities over the past three years. The report also contains policies and practices pertaining to campus security, crime reporting, alcohol and drugs, victims' assistance programs, student discipline policies, campus resources, community safety alerts, crime prevention, access to campus facilities and properties as well as personal safety tips. For a copy of the current Texas Tech Annual Crime Statistics and Safety Report please visit: www.depts.ttu.edu/ttpd/clery.php Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Work at Texas Tech Like Work at Texas Tech on FacebookLike Work at Texas Tech on Facebook Follow Work at Texas Tech on twitterFollow Work at Texas Tech on twitter Address Texas Tech University, 2518 15th Street, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3851 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityOct 15, 2020 4:34 PM Work at Texas Tech Job Search Work at Texas Tech Job Search Back Faculty Staff Students Current Employee Legal Statement Why Texas Tech Work at Texas Tech Why Texas Tech Back Employee Enrichment Entertainment Health and Wellness Campus Security About Lubbock Work at Texas Tech About Lubbock Back About the City Living in Lubbock Entertainment Veterans Work at Texas Tech Veterans Back Veteran's Employment Work at Texas Tech Veterans Veteran's Employment Back Veterans Employment Overview Fundamentals for Hiring Managers Fundamentals for Veterans Annual Security and Fire Safety Labor Compliance Notices Workplace Posters Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index