COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Samantha Rowan May 2, 2022 — Samantha Rowan is graduate and a first-generation student. She plans to work with elderly after she graduates. Samantha is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at Wichita State and what is next for the grad. WSU's engineering grad program top 60 in the nation and highest in Kansas March 29, 2022 — In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University once again was ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs in the country and the only institution in Kansas to make it in the top 100. WSU announces new athletic training graduate degree Dec. 9, 2021 -- The Department of Human Performance Studies in the College of Applied Studies (CAS) at Wichita State University (WSU) has secured approval for a new graduate-level degree in athletic training. The 62 credit-hour program launches in the summer of 2023. Wichita State, WSU Tech announce fall enrollment numbers Sept. 30, 2021 -- Enrollment for fall 2021 at Wichita State University and WSU Tech is showing strong growth despite a decline in 2020 caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of thousands of local jobs. Wichita State graduate student returns to college after rediscovering herself April 30, 2021 – Twelve years following receiving her Master’s in Business Administration, Janet Federico moved from Washington, D.C. to Wichita to pursue a Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing at Wichita State after rediscovering herself as an author, speaker and illustrator later her career. English 102 approved for Open/Alternative Textbook Course designation April 12, 2021 – After months of hard work from Wichita State faculty members Carrie Dickison and Maria Sclafani, the Open Alternative Textbook committee approved English 102 for Open/Alternative Textbook (OAT) course designation. Starting in fall 2021, Wichita State students will no longer have to buy textbooks for English 102. Wichita State aerospace engineering student awarded prestigious NSF fellowship March 24, 2021 — Brittany Wojciechowski, a Wichita State University Ph.D. student in aerospace engineering, has been awarded the prestigious National Science Foundation’s (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship (GRF), which is worth more than $120,000. Wichita State establishes new School of Computing Dec. 10, 2020 -- The Kansas Board of Regents has approved the creation of the newest department at Wichita State University’s College of Engineering – the School of Computing. Dean Dennis Livesay called the establishment of the new school a significant marker of the university’s commitment to producing digital-skilled workforce needed by industry. First-generation student seized grad school opportunity Nov. 3, 2020 — Lily Guillen, a graduate student in studio art, is one of thousands of first-generation students at Wichita State University. She will be taking over the university’s Instagram account on Wednesday, Nov. 4, to share her experiences as a first-gen student. Wichita State grad's Ai software fights COVID-19 July 2, 2020 -- Shocker alum Arfath Mohammad is using artificial intelligence to help save lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. Wichita State's engineering graduate programs are now the highest ranked in Kansas May 13, 2020 -- In the latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities offering a Ph.D. in engineering, the College of Engineering at Wichita State University is again ranked in the top 100 engineering graduate programs, the only institution from the state of Kansas to make it in the top 100. Grad student presents complex blockchain concepts using virtual reality tools May 7, 2020 -- Leading up to the university shut down, Wichita State instructor and innovation design alum, Max Hinman and current innovation design student, Jared Goering worked together to design a virtual reality presentation that can be joined from any VR headset or computer. Capitol Graduate Research Summit presents benefits of Wichita State research March 2, 2020 -- Nine Wichita State graduate students joined with graduate students from all of the Kansas Board of Regents universities and presented at the 17th annual Capitol Graduate Research Summit in Topeka on Feb. 26. Wichita State graduate student works to help police evaluate stressful situations Feb. 27, 2020 - Wichita State graduate student Monica Connelly's research involves studying weapon detection by law enforcement officers using biological motion as a cue. Grad student's business makes Most Fundable Company list Dec. 11, 2019 -- Wichita State graduate student Tammy Dorsey and her company, Prenatal Hope, recently reached a No. 11 rank on the Pepperdine Graziadio Business School’s Most Fundable Companies List. 1 2 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©