UW Genome Sciences About Welcome Diversity Contact Directory History Support Genome Sciences Faculty Academics Ph.D. Program Postdoctoral Program Courses Training Grants Summer Research Diversity News & Events Events Calendar GS Seminar GS Symposia Combi Seminar Journal Club Research Reports Public Lecture Outreach Women In Genome Sciences (WiGS) Genomics Salon GS AIMS Department News IT Outages Administration Computing Conference Rooms Directory Employment Facilities Faculty Resources Human Resources Operations Research Support Make a Gift Model Organism Genetics -- Human and Medical Genetics -- Genomics and Proteomics -- Computational Biology Graduate Program Our application deadline is December 1 More ... Eichler Lab Recurrent inversion polymorphisms in humans associate with genetic instability and genomic disorders More ... Eichler Lab The Complete Sequence of a Human Genome More ... Harris Lab Nonparametric coalescent inference of mutation spectrum history and demography More ... Berg Lab Detecting New Allies: Modifier Screen Identifies a Genetic Interaction Between Imaginal disc growth factor 3 and combover, a Rho-kinase Substrate, During Dorsal Appendage Tube Formation in Drosophila More ... Harris Lab Inferring evolutionary dynamics of mutation rates through the lens of mutation spectrum variation More ... Bruce Lab Mitochondrial protein interaction landscape of SS-31 More ... The Department of Genome Sciences is committed to creating an environment that is welcoming and inclusive. Our goal is to foster a place of learning and working where all members can thrive and where diversity is recognized and celebrated. At Genome Sciences, we aim to create supportive spaces for those who are marginalized in higher education or society. To achieve this, we recognize that it is our ongoing responsibility to understand, acknowledge, and challenge systems of privilege and disadvantage in higher education such as those based on race, color, creed, caste, religion, national origin, citizenship, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, veteran status, or socioeconomic status. Genome Sciences mourns the loss of our colleague, Dr. Deborah Nickerson. Upcoming Events Friday, May 27 Dissertation Defense: Anna Minkina | Shendure Lab, Ph.D. in Genome Sciences “Tethering distinct molecular profiles of single cells by their lineage histories to investigate sources of cell state heterogeneity” 11:30 | Foege Auditorium | remote viewing option | flier Wednesday, June 1 Dissertation Defense: Anthony Barente | Villen Lab, Ph.D. in Genome Sciences "Powering phosphoproteomics with large scale data analysis and machine learning" 11:30 | Foege Auditorium | remote viewing option | flier Wednesday, June 1 Dissertation Defense: April Lo | Berger Lab, Ph.D. in Genome Sciences “Oncogene-driven post-transcriptional regulation in lung cancer” 1:30 | Foege Auditorium | remote viewing option | flier Thursday, June 2 Dissertation Defense: Kyle Hess | Villen Lab, Ph.D. in Molecular & Cellular Biology "Proteome-wide mapping of sequence-function relationships using mistranslation" 1:00 | Foege Auditorium | remote viewing option | flier Friday, June 3 Dissertation Defense: Michael Goldberg | Harris Lab, Ph.D. in Genome Sciences “Variation in germline mutagenesis in humans and other great apes” 1:00 | Foege Auditorium | remote viewing option | flier New Faculty Genome Sciences is pleased to announce that Dr. Lea Starita has accepted our offer to be an assistant professor. Dr. Starita develops and applies advanced genomic technologies for interpreting genetic variants of unknown significance. She also serves as the co-director of The Brotman Baty Institute's Advanced Technology Lab and is a key member of the Seattle Flu Study. Genome Sciences is pleased to announce that Dr. Philip Abitua has accepted our offer to be an assistant professor. Dr. Abitua is a developmental biologist studying annual killifish and how they've evolved to survive in extreme environments. In addition to deep knowledge of early vertebrate development, Dr. Abitua will bring cutting edge techniques into the department, such as single-cell analysis with live imaging of whole embryos. Genome Sciences is pleased to announce that Dr. Alison Feder has accepted our offer to be an assistant professor and has joined our department. Dr. Feder was a Miller Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. She is a mathematical biologist who studies evolutionary forces that drive rapid adaptation, such as that seen in viruses becoming resistant to drugs. Genome Sciences is pleased to announce that Dr. Devin Schweppe has accepted our offer to be an assistant professor and has joined our department. Dr. Schweppe comes to Genome Sciences from the lab of Dr. Steven Gygi at Harvard Medical School, where he was a postdoctoral fellow. Dr. Schweppe develops proteomics methods to analyze dynamic cellular signaling networks. Department News Dr. Evan Eichler named one of Time's 100 Most Influential People of 2022. Dr. Jay Shendure has been elected to the National Academy of Sciences. Introducing the Genome Sciences 2022 incoming class: Sahar Attar - King's College London, University of Washington Erik Bergstrom - University of Virginia Caleb Carr - UW MSTP Connor Finkbeiner - Whitman College Sophia Gibson - Bryn Mawr College Stephen Gonzalez - UC San Diego Iris Jia - University of Washington, UC San Diego Conor Kelly - University of Colorado Caroline Kikawa - UW MSTP Joseph Min - Johns Hopkins University Jenny Nathans - UW MSTP Monika Perez - University of Tulsa Clifford Rostomily - University of Washington Bo Wen - Huazhong University of Science and Technology Qi Yu - Brandeis University Dr. Steven Henikoff & Dr. Harmit Malik named to AAAS. Scientists set out to map the world’s genomic diversity UW Medicine Newsroom Hanna Liao has been awarded an NSF fellowship. Lincoln Harris and Chris Hsu have received honorable mention. Dr. Alison Feder has been selected as an award recipient for the Gilead Research Scholars program in HIV. NIH All of Us Research Program releases genomic dataset Berg Lab undergraduate researcher Andrea Rauschmayer received the Grand Prize for Best Undergraduate Oral Presentation at the Northwest Developmental Biology meeting. Dr. Harmit Malik has been awarded the Novitski Prize. A Scientist’s Guide to Understanding Omicron David Baker, Riza Daza, Evan Eichler, Choli Lee, Debbie Nickerson, Bill Noble, Jay Shendure, and Cole Trapnell have been named on the 2021 Highly Cited Researchers list. Gesine Cauer and Tobias Jores have been awarded the 2021 Parker Travel Award for best poster at the 2021 department retreat. NIH Awards $16 million as Part of ‘Impact of Genome Variation on Function’ Consortium Dr. Trevor Bedford and Dr. Erick Matsen have been selected as HHMI Investigators. Seattle Times Dr. Jean-Benoît Lalanne has been awarded a Damon Runyon Fellowship. Soyeon Showman has been awarded The Bonita and David Brewer Fellowship. Miranda Mudge has been awarded an NRSA fellowship. Dr. Renee Geck has been awarded an NRSA fellowship. More News Covid Research Diversity Events Calendar Graduate Program Postdoctoral Program Support Our Research Recent Research Highlights From Canvases to Microscopes: Building Uplifting Community and Research Spaces Within and Beyond Genomics Robin Aguilar is author and artist on a paper in ACS Chemical Biology . Recurrent inversion polymorphisms in humans associate with genetic instability and genomic disorders David Porubsky is lead author on a paper in Cell, along with Benson Hsieh, William Harvey, and other Eichler Lab members. Segmental duplications and their variation in a complete human genome Mitchell Vollger, Xavi Guitart, Philip Dishuck, and other Eichler Lab members are lead authors on a paper in Science. The complete sequence of a human genome Mitchell Vollger, Glennis Logsdon, and other Eichler lab members are lead authors on a paper in Science. PacRAT: A program to improve barcode-variant mapping from PacBio long reads using multiple sequence alignment Cindy Yeh and Clara Amorosi are lead authors on a paper in Bioinformatics. Familial long-read sequencing increases yield of de novo mutations Michelle Noyes is lead author on a paper in AJHG, along with Eichler Lab members William Harvey, David Porubsky, Katy Munson, Kendra Hoekzema, and Alex Lewis. Closing the gap: Systematic integration of multiplexed functional data resolves variants of uncertain significance in BRCA1, TP53, and PTEN Shawn Fayer is lead author on a paper in AJHG. Precise genomic deletions using paired prime editing Junhong Choi and Wei Chen, along with other Shendure Lab members, are authors on a paper in Nature Biotechnology. Understanding patterns of HIV multi-drug resistance through models of temporal and spatial drug heterogeneity Alison Feder and colleagues are authors on a paper in eLife. A modified fluctuation assay reveals a natural mutator phenotype that drives mutation spectrum variation within Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pengyao Jiang is lead author on a paper in eLife, along with other Dunham and Harris Lab members. Evidence for opposing selective forces operating on human-specific duplicated TCAF genes in Neanderthals and humans PingHsun Hsieh is lead author on a paper in Nature Communications, along with other Eichler Lab members Phil Dishuck, Mitchell Vollger, Stella Huang and Yafei Mao. Massively parallel characterization of CYP2C9 variant enzyme activity and abundance Clara Amorosi and Melissa Chiasson are lead authors on a paper in AJHG, along with other Dunham and Fowler Lab members. Recent ultra-rare inherited variants implicate new autism candidate risk genes Amy Wilfert is lead author on a paper in Nature Genetics, along with other Eichler Lab members. Embryo-scale, single-cell spatial transcriptomics Sanjay Srivatsan is lead author on a paper in Science. PaintSHOP enables the interactive design of transcriptome- and genome-scale oligonucleotide FISH experiments Elliot Hershberg and Conor Camplisson are lead authors on a paper in Nature Methods. Robustness of phylogenetic inference to model misspecification caused by pairwise epistasis Will DeWitt and Sarah Hilton are authors on a paper in Molecular Biology and Evolution. Nonparametric coalescent inference of mutation spectrum history and demography Will DeWitt is lead author on a paper in PNAS. A high-quality bonobo genome refines the analysis of hominid evolution Yafei Mao is lead author on a paper in Nature, along with other Eichler Lab members Phil Dishuck, Benson Hsieh and David Porubsky. Multiplexing Mutation Rate Assessment: Determining Pathogenicity of Msh2 Variants in S. cerevisiae Anja Ollodart is lead author on a paper in Genetics. The structure, function and evolution of a complete human chromosome 8 Glennis Logsdon is lead author, along with Mitchell Vollger, Yafei Mao, David Porubsky, PingHsun Hsieh, Phil Dishuck, and other Eichler Lab members, on a paper in Nature. More Research UW Resources & Links University of Washington School of Medicine UW Safe Campus Workday MyUW Departmental Resources & Links Computing Conference Rooms Directory Outreach Women in Genome Sciences (WiGS) Genomics Salon GSAIMS Contact Us Department of Genome Sciences Foege Building S-250, Box 355065 3720 15th Ave NE, Seattle WA 98195-5065 general inquiries: gsadmin [ a t ] uw.edu academic, events, & web: bgiebel [ a t ] uw.edu Genome 361 information page @uwgenome (206) 221-7377 | fax: (206) 685-7301