Skip to content Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Main Menu About A Brief Introduction | Engineering Study Abroad Milestone Events Student Life Annual Safety Security Report Academics Courses Academic Calendars Current GT Students Transient Students Graduate Programs MS Analytics MS Computer Science MS Electrical and Computer Engineering MS Environmental Engineering Master of Industrial Design Exchange To GT-Atlanta MS Analytics MS CS MS ECE MS ENVE Master of Industrial Design To GT-Shenzhen To GT-Lorraine Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Financial Scholarships Coulter Scholarships Merit-Based Scholarships NACA Scholarships Tuition and Fees Industry FAQ FAQ on Admission FAQ on Financial Matters FAQ on Programmatic Issues FAQ on GT MS Degree FAQ on PhD Ugrad Summer Contact Us Search Search for: Search Faculty Positions Tenure-track Faculty Positions in Electrical and Computer Engineering at Georgia Tech Shenzhen The School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ece.gatech.edu) at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) invites applications for teaching faculty position at the Assistant Professor or Associate Professor level in the following Technical Interest Areas (TIAs): Computer Systems and Software, Digital Signal Processing, Systems and Controls, or Telecommunications. This is a full-time position with the Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute (GTSI) in Shenzhen, China. GTSI is a Joint Institute between Georgia Tech and Tianjin University (TJU) and is located in Shenzhen, the so-called “Silicon Valley of China”. GTSI has received approval from the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia as well as the Chinese Ministry of Education to offer Georgia Tech’s existing Master’s degree programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), Analytics, Computer Science, Environmental Engineering, and Industrial Design, as well as the PhD degree in ECE. Georgia Tech is fully responsible for Georgia Tech academic programming at GTSI. According to the U.S. News and World Report, Georgia Tech’s undergraduate Electrical Engineering (EE) program is currently ranked No. 4 and its graduate EE program is ranked No. 5 in the U.S.; Georgia Tech’s undergraduate Computer Engineering (CompE) program is currently ranked No. 5 and its graduate CompE program is ranked No. 5 in the U.S. Successful GTSI faculty candidates will be expected to teach courses from Georgia Tech’s curriculum in ECE in the aforementioned TIAs, mentor students, engage in field-related professional achievement and activity, and perform service to GTSI and the professional society. Candidates can apply to either of the following two tracks which differ in teaching load and research expectations. Teaching track: Teaching and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching track. Although not a job requirement, teaching faculty are welcome to engage in research as well and supervise student projects. Teaching experience (demonstrated by college level teaching experience, TA experience, or teaching training programs), and some demonstrated record of professional achievement and activity are desired. Teaching & research track: Teaching, research, and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching & research track. Candidates shall have either demonstrated or shown a clear potential for creative and independent research that would lead to a strong, extramurally funded research program and recognition in the professional field. Employment, compensation and benefits of these faculty members will be through GTSI. Applications will be reviewed by the relevant faculty body at Georgia Tech – Atlanta. Successful candidates will be granted Georgia Tech adjunct faculty status and are expected to teach the Georgia Tech curriculum in English at GTSI. Both the faculty and the student bodies at GTSI are expected to be diverse and international. Chinese language skills are not a requirement for employment with GTSI. Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in the faculty and student bodies. We strongly encourage applications from women, underrepresented minorities, and individuals with disabilities. Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to promoting work-life balance and supporting dual-career employee families. SALARY: Commensurate with qualifications and experience, academic year (9-month) basis. Summer employment opportunities may be available with additional summer salary of up to 1/3 of academic year salary. Salary will be paid by GTSI. BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: PhD degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, or a closely related field, from a top graduate program taught in the English language, to be conferred no later than June 30, 2022. POSITION AVAILABLE: July 1, 2022, with academic year beginning in August 2022. CLOSING DATE: Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis beginning immediately. Applications will be considered until open positions are filled. For full consideration, applicants are encouraged to submit their applications by January 15, 2022. TO APPLY: Please submit by email to: gtshenzhen@nullece.gatech.edu, please include “GTSI ECE faculty application from YOUR NAME” in the Subject line and please clearly indicate TIA(s) as well so we can route your application to the appropriate Georgia Tech ECE faculty group. Please indicate whether you are applying for the teaching track or the teaching & research track. The application package should be submitted as PDF files and include: a letter of application, curriculum vitae, a statement of professional interests and plans, a statement of teaching interests, and contact information for at least 3 professional references. In addition, up to ten sets of instructor teaching evaluations may be submitted. Computer Science Tenure-track Faculty at Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute Qualifications/Job Description: The College of Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) invites applications for tenure track faculty positions at all ranks in Computer Science at the Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute (GTSI) in Shenzhen, China. These positions will reside in China only. GTSI is a Joint Institute between Georgia Tech and Tianjin University (TJU) and is located in Shenzhen, the so-called “Silicon Valley of China.” GTSI has received approval from the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia as well as the Chinese Ministry of Education to offer Georgia Tech’s existing Master’s degree programs in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE), Analytics, Computer Science, Environmental Engineering, and Industrial Design, as well as the PhD degree program in ECE. Georgia Tech is fully responsible for Georgia Tech academic program operations at GTSI. A subset of the GTSI student body will also receive a Tianjin University Master’s degree (double MS degrees) by completing additional TJU graduate coursework and dissertation requirements beyond the Georgia Tech degree requirements. Georgia Tech’s undergraduate Computer Science program is currently ranked No. 5 and its graduate Computer Science program is ranked No. 8 in the U.S. according to the U.S. News and World Report. Successful GTSI faculty candidates will be expected to teach courses from Georgia Tech’s curriculum in Computer Science, mentor students, engage in field-related professional achievement and activity, and perform service to GTSI and the professional society. Candidates can apply to either of the following two tracks which differ in teaching load and research expectations. Teaching track: Teaching and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching track. Although not a job requirement, teaching faculty are welcome to engage in research as well and supervise student projects. Teaching experience (demonstrated by college level teaching experience, TA experience, or teaching training programs), and some demonstrated record of professional achievement and activity are desired. Teaching & research track: Teaching, research, and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching & research track. Candidates shall have either demonstrated or shown a clear potential for creative and independent research that would lead to a strong, extramurally funded research program and recognition in the professional field. Employment, compensation and benefits of these faculty members will be through GTSI. Applications will be reviewed by the relevant faculty body at Georgia Tech — Atlanta. Successful candidates will be granted Georgia Tech adjunct faculty status and are expected to teach the Georgia Tech curriculum in English at GTSI. Both the faculty and the student bodies at GTSI are expected to be diverse and international. Chinese language skills are not a requirement for employment with GTSI. Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in the faculty and student bodies. We strongly encourage applications from women, underrepresented minorities, and individuals with disabilities. Georgia Tech and GTSI are committed to promoting work-life balance and supporting dual-career employee families. SALARY: Commensurate with qualifications and experience, academic year (9-month) basis. Summer employment opportunities may be available with additional summer salary of up to 1/3 of academic year salary. Salary will be paid by GTSI. BASIC QUALIFICATIONS: PhD degree in Computer Science or a closely related field, from a top graduate program taught in the English language, to be conferred no later than June 30, 2022. POSITIONS AVAILABLE: July 1, 2022, with academic year beginning in August 2022. CLOSING DATE: Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis beginning immediately. Applications will be considered until open positions are filled. How to Apply: Please submit by email to gtshenzhen@nullcc.gatech.edu, and include “GTSI CS faculty application from YOUR NAME” in the Subject line. Please indicate whether you are applying for the teaching track or the teaching & research track. The application package should be submitted as PDF files and include: a letter of application, curriculum vitae, a statement of professional interests and plans, a statement of teaching interests, and contact information for at least 3 professional references. In addition, up to ten sets of instructor teaching evaluations may be submitted. Contact Email Address: gtshenzhen@nullcc.gatech.edu Faculty Position in Industrial Design at Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute Location: Shenzhen, China (GTSI Campus) The School of Industrial Design at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) invites applications for a full-time faculty position in Industrial Design with the Georgia Tech Shenzhen Institute (GTSI) in Shenzhen, China. The position can be at the tenure track Assistant or Associate Professor level, or non-tenure track Professor of the Practice level. This is a teaching faculty position at GTSI and will reside in China only. GTSI is a Joint Institute between Georgia Tech and Tianjin University (TJU), located in Shenzhen, the so-called “Silicon Valley of China”. GTSI has received approval from the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia as well as the Chinese Ministry of Education to offer Georgia Tech’s existing Master’s degree programs in Environmental Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Analytics, Computer Science, and Industrial Design. The offering of the Georgia Tech Master of Industrial Design (MID) degree in Shenzhen has also been approved by the U.S. National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD). Georgia Tech is responsible for Georgia Tech academic program operations at GTSI. A subset of the GTSI student body will also receive a Tianjin University Master’s degree (double MS degrees) by completing additional TJU graduate coursework and dissertation requirements beyond the Georgia Tech degree requirements. Successful GTSI faculty candidates will be expected to teach courses from Georgia Tech’s Master’s curriculum in Industrial Design, mentor students, engage in field-related professional achievement and activity, and perform service to GTSI and the professional society. Teaching and service constitute the criteria for advancement for GTSI faculty on the teaching track. Although not a job requirement, teaching faculty are welcome to engage in research as well and supervise student projects. Employment: compensation and benefits of this position will be through GTSI. Short-listed candidates will be interviewed by the relevant faculty body at Georgia Tech – Atlanta. The successful candidate will be granted Georgia Tech adjunct faculty status and is expected to teach the Georgia Tech curriculum in English at GTSI. Both the faculty and the student bodies at GTSI are expected to be diverse and international. Chinese language skills are not a requirement for employment with GTSI. Salary: Commensurate with qualifications and experience, academic year (9-month) basis. Summer teaching opportunities may be available with additional summer salary of up to 1/3 of academic year salary. Salary and benefits will be paid by GTSI. Basic Qualifications: We are searching for candidates who place a strong emphasis on human-centered design and user experience with strengths in interactive product design and service design. A PhD or terminal degree in industrial design or a related discipline is required. Teaching experience (demonstrated by college level teaching experience or teaching training programs) and some demonstrated record of professional achievement and activity are desired. Applicants for the Professor of the Practice designation should have at least 10 years of academic and/or professional experience in the field and with a national/international reputation for excellence. Positions Available: July 1, 2022, with academic year beginning in August 2022. Closing Date: Review of applications will begin on October 15, 2021. The positions will remain open until filled. How to Apply Please submit an email to gtshenzhen@nulldesign.gatech.edu. The application package should be submitted as PDF files and include: a letter of application, curriculum vitae, select portfolio samples (10 pages PDF max), a statement of professional interests and plans, a statement of teaching interests, and contact information for at least 3 professional references. In addition, up to ten sets of instructor teaching evaluations may be submitted. Faculty Georgia Tech Faculty with Rotational Assignment to Shenzhen Faculty Positions Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events at this time. Contact the Institute Directory Offices Campus Map Apply Support / Give Log in Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology