Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home People Our Faculty Faculty Awards Faculty Grants Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Faculty Grants 2022 Gina Wingood, ScD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $1,231,220 over five years from the National Institute of Mental Health for “Social Determinants of HIV.” Goleen Samari, PhD, Population & Family Health, will receive $654,210 over five years from the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development for “Migration, Dynamic Social Environments, and Birth Outcomes” and 350,000 over five years from the Grant (William T.) Foundation for “Reducing Harm from Structural Xenophobia for Reproductive Equity.” Mary Beth Terry, PhD, professor of Epidemiology, is the principal investigator of a new grant -- the Center to Improve Chronic Disease Outcomes through Multi-level and Multi-generational Approaches Unifying Novel Interventions and Training for Health Equity (COMMUNITY Center) at HICCC. The official project will address health disparities in multiple chronic diseases. Read more. 2021 Andrew Rundle, DrPH, Epidemiology, will receive $2,645,973 over four years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Identifying alcohol-related and built environment factors that can be modified to prevent pedestrian road traffic deaths” and $538,088 over five years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for a subaward of “Elucidating Genetic and Environmental Second Hits in Racial and Ethnic Minorities with APOL1 High-Risk Genotypes.” Dustin Duncan, ScD, Epidemiology, will receive $3,624,329 over five years from the National Institute on Drug Abuse for “Cannabis use, PrEP and HIV transmission risk Among Black MSM in Chicago.” Barun Mathema, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $3,433,190 over five years from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Targeting TB transmission hotspots to find undiagnosed TB in South Africa: a genomic, geospatial and modeling study (TARGET- TB).” Gary Miller, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $2,367,669 over four years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “Vesicular modulation of dopamine neuron toxicity.” Christopher Morrison, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $3,072,894 over five years from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism for “Impacts of Subsidized Ridesharing on Drunk Driving, Alcohol Consumption, and Mobility.” Jeanette Stingone, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $481,457 over two years from the Health Effects Institute for “Race, Ethnicity, and Air pollution in COVID-19 Hospitalization OUTcomes (REACH OUT Study).” Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, chair of Environmental Health Sciences, is receiving an eight-year grant of $7,398,756 from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “Extracellular vesicles in Environmental Epidemiology Studies of Aging.” Norman Kleiman, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $1,139,975 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for Serological Test for SARS-COV-2, Human Coronaviruses and Other Respiratory Pathogens. Rafal Tokarz, PhD, Center for Infection & Immunity, will receive a two-year grant from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for “Identification of the Agent of Southern Tick Associated Rash Illness.” Nour Makarem, PhD, Epidemiology, will receive $726,833 over three years from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for “Circadian Pattern of Rest-Activity Rhythms and Blood Pressure and the Underlying Epigenetic Mechanisms.” Joan Casey, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $2,130,169 over three years from the National Institute on Aging for “Short and Long-Term Consequences of Wildfires for Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias.” Parisa Tehranifar, DrPH, Epidemiology, and Rachel Shelton, ScD, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $2,616,318 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “De-implementation of Mammography Overuse in Older Racially and Ethnically Diverse Women.” Ana Navas-Acien, MD, PhD, and Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $3,148,020 over four years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “The Epitranscriptome as a Novel Mechanism of Arsenic-Induced Diabetes.” Ian Lipkin, MD, Center for Infection & Immunity, will receive $3,000,000 over one year from the Skoll Foundation for “Columbia Convalescent Plasma Trial.” Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou, ScD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $2,508,769 over five years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “Air Pollution and Pregnancy Loss.” Marni Sommer, DrPH, RN, Sociomedical Sciences, will receive $299,905 from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for “Support for Global Menstrual Health and Hygiene Monitoring.” Mary Gamble, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $1,852,969 over three years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for “Interdisciplinary Approaches for Understanding the Metabolic Effects of Arsenic and Manganese” and $2,623,349 over four years from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases for “Metabolomic and Nutrigenetic Effects of Folic Acid Supplementation and Unmetabolized Folic Acid.” Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $949,566 over five years from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences for a subaward of “Air Particulate Pollution and Stress: Effects and Mechanisms for Long-term Maternal Obesity Risks.” Morgan Philbin, PhD, MHS, assistant professor of sociomedical sciences, will receive $551,816 as a 3-year Notice of Award R34 Grant from the National Institutes of Health for "Optimizing HIV Adherence by Developing a Shared Decision Support Tool to Facilitate Women's Choice Between Oral and LAI ART." The Department of Epidemiology along with the CDC Columbia Center for Injury Science and Prevention and The Irving Institute’s Implementation Science Initiative granted one-year pilot awards to the following faculty members. The program prioritized applications that focused on promoting health equity and racial justice. Silvia Martins, MD, PhD, Associate Professor of Epidemiology and Jeremy Kane, PhD, MPH, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, for "Adaptation and piloting of brief interpersonal therapy (IPT) for remote delivery among refugees and other displaced persons in Peru." Yuval Neria, PhD, Professor of Medical Psychology in the Department of Epidemiology for the study of "Reducing Public Stigma Towards Individuals with Psychosis Across Race and Gender: A Randomized Controlled Trial of Young Adults." Christina Hoven, PhD, Professor of Clinical Epidemiology in the Department of Epidemiology for "The Impact of Race and Other Characteristics on Parent-Teacher Communication: Examining a Critical Mechanism of Change for Implementation and Mental Health Outcomes in Children with Autism." Rachel Shelton, ScD, MPH, associate professor of Sociomedical Sciences, will receive 5-year R01 NIH National Cancer Institute grant titled, “De-Implementation of Mammography Overuse in Older Racially and Ethnically Diverse Women” funded for 1.6 million. Co PIs are Nathalie Moise, and Parisa Tehranifar. Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive $3,967,867 over five years from the National Institute on Aging for “Blood Mitochondrial DNA Biomarkers of Midlife Cognitive Decline and Adverse Brain Imaging Changes – A Longitudinal Investigation in the CARDIA Population‐based Cohort Study.” Ana Navas-Acien, MD, PhD, Environmental Health Sciences, will receive a five-year award from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to study “Metal Exposure and Early Cardiovascular Risk in Adult E-Cigarette Users." Mary Beth Terry, PhD, will receive a grant from the U.S. Department of the Army for studying breast cancer risk and “Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH)". Diana Hernandez, PhD, associate professor sociomedical sciences, will receive $3,361,189 over five years from the National Cancer Institute for “A Randomized Controlled Trial to Support Smoke-Free Policy Compliance in Public Housing.” More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 A Q&A With Prof. Merlin ChowkwanyunMay 24 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers