Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW University of Wyoming Art Museum ‌‍ ‎BECOME A MEMBER TODAY! ‏ NAVIGATE Visit Exhibitions Education Collections Get Involved About Us Events Calendar & Info Museum Store News Press Room Placing Art at the Center of Learning The University of Wyoming Art Museum presents and collects world-class art and objects by regional, national and international artists, and art from the American West. As an academic museum and a leader in the arts, the University of Wyoming Art Museum concentrates on furthering programs that engage students and visitors in discussions that broaden an understanding of diverse perspectives, viewpoints, and cultures. Through its Museum as Classroom approach, the University of Wyoming Art Museum places art at the center of learning for all ages, supports the academic mission of the University, assists in preparing our future workforce with essential skills, and enhances the cultural life of Wyoming’s citizens and visitors. Read More Outreach Request an Experience Educators, Community and more! Ann Simpson Artmobile Schedule a Visit! Regional Touring Exhibition Service   Pre K-12 Programs Upcoming classes, events, camps Become a Member Find out more! Face Masks featuring Collection Artworks Shop Online Today! FEATURED Pat Guthrie Special Exhibition Teaching Gallery On View through May 14, 2022 The Pat Guthrie Special Exhibitions Teaching Gallery presents four installations, each specific to a course taught during the Spring 2022 semester at the University of Wyoming. Faculty from a range of academic disciplines select artwork from our permanent collection to support the content and learning goals of their respective classes. This method of object-based teaching and learning invites inquiry, curiosity, and creative thinking into the students’ educational experience. These skills are tools to prepare our future workforce and leaders, no matter their path, and help enliven the cultural experience in Wyoming. Read More Anne Samat: Weavings of Love On view through August 27, 2022 Malaysian artist Anne Samat (b. 1973) creates brilliantly colorful totemic wall sculptures using humble everyday materials. Her work is deeply informed by Malaysian culture, but with a contemporary sensibility for color, texture, and form. Contemporary in Black + White: Selections from the Art Museum Collection On View Through June 4, 2022 In the realm of contemporary art, achromatic does not equate to insignificant. Selected from the museum’s permanent collection, these contemporary works are brought together by the common theme of color or lack thereof. Without the element of color, ideas must be conveyed only by line, shape, value, texture, and composition. The intentionality of casting aside the color spectrum and focusing on the visual power of black and white results in surprising and thought-provoking imagery. Read More Extras Coloring Book Pages from Artworks in the Collection Giddy-up with this inspiring Bill Gollings coloring book page. You can now download this and other coloring book pages from artworks in the Art Museum's collection. Artists of all ages are invited to slow down and relax by coloring, and exploring your own expressive colors and patterns. Download Here Desktop Backgrounds Looking for the perfect background for your desktop? Immerse yourself in works of art from the UW Art Museums collection! Reminder: UW Art Museum images are copyrighted and are offered here for personal use only. Download Here Email Service Sign up for updates delivered directly to your inbox. Give to the Art Museum We accept your support and generosity any time of the year. Your donation helps keep admission free for all! DONATE NOW Visitor Information Visit Us There is no admission fee for the art museum. We are free for visitors of all ages. Connect With Us Hours Tuesday – Saturday: 10 a.m. – 5 p.m. Closed Sunday & Monday Upcoming Closure: Monday, May 30, 2022 - Memorial Day 2111 East Willett Drive Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-6622 Email: uwartmus@uwyo.edu back to top^ 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility