Skip to content SUMMER READING SALE! Get 40% off plus free U.S. shipping with promo code SUMMER22-FM from now through June 15! X About Column Mission & History Support Penn Press Column Penn Press Catalogs Ordering Information Column Prizes & Awards Sign Up for Emails Books Column All Titles Books by Penn Authors Column Subjects Authors A to Z Column Series Imprints Journals News & Events Column Blog Events Resources Column For Instructors For Authors Column For Librarians For Media Contact Us Column Contact & Help Acquisitions Department Editing, Design, & Production Department Column Marketing Department Journals Division Business & Administration Column Desk & Exam Copies Rights & Permissions Sales Representation Close Menu SEARCH X Homepage Celebrating Our Penn Authors Penn Press is proud to have published hundreds of books from authors based at our home institution, the University of Pennsylvania. Browse our collection of recent books published by Penn-affiliated authors and explore the range of expertise and knowledge to be found right here in our backyard! Wicked Flesh—Paperback Coming Soon Jessica Marie Johnson’s award-winning and groundbreaking book Wicked Flesh is coming in paperback from Penn Press this fall! Unearthing personal stories from the archive, Wicked Flesh shows how black women used intimacy and kinship to redefine freedom in the eighteenth-century Atlantic world. The Difference Is Spreading—Out Now! Since its inception in 2012, the hugely successful online introduction to modern poetry known as ModPo has engaged some 415,000 readers, listeners, teachers, and poets. In The Difference Is Spreading, ModPo’s Al Filreis and Anna Strong Safford have invited fifty poets to select and comment upon a poem by another writer. RaceB4Race: Critical Race Studies of the Premodern An exciting new Penn Press series, RaceB4Race explores the ways race has been constructed and operates in the literature, history, and culture of the global West and beyond from antiquity to the eighteenth century. Latest Titles Women Healers Susan H. Brandt Referendums and Ethnic Conflict Matt Qvortrup The Invention of Shakespeare, and Other Essays Stephen Orgel The Textual Effects of David Walker's "Appeal" Marcy J. Dinius Fictions of Consent Urvashi Chakravarty The Difference Is Spreading Al Filreis, Anna Strong Safford The Crucified Book Anne Starr Kreps A Feast of Flowers Christopher Krupa Sonic Bodies Tekla Bude Poisoned Wells Tzafrir Barzilay From Our Blog An Excerpt From The Kingdom and the Republic in Honor of Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month May is Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month, and in commemoration, we're sharing an excerpt from the Introduction to The Kingdom and… Read More Congratulations to This Year's Penn Press-Affiliated Guggenheim Fellows! The 2022 Guggenheim Fellows have been announced, and several Penn Press authors or affiliates have received this honor! Please join us in… Read More Women Healers: Always Essential Medical Workers In honor of Women's History Month, Penn Press is excited to share a new blog post from Susan Brandt, author of Women… Read More Forthcoming Events Aaron Sullivan at the Athenaeum of Philadelphia Thursday. June 2, 2022 | 6:00 pm Virtual event Read More Whitney Martinko at the Preservation League of New York State Thursday. June 9, 2022 | 4:00 pm Virtual event Read More Phasellus at mi Monday. November 21, 2022 | 12:00 am Phasellus at mi olor nec consectetur dictum Read More Featured Authors Catherine J. Ross Alaina E. Roberts Erika M. Kitzmiller For Authors For Instructors For Librarians For Media Columns Home Contact & Help Columns About Penn Press Support Penn Press Columns Ordering Information Site Use & Privacy Policy © 2022 University of Pennsylvania Press. All Rights Reserved. 3905 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19104 Powered by Supadu