By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Campus Highlights Student-Run Media More from this Section Performing Arts Student Centers Hendricks Connective Corridor The Stadium Student-Run Media At Syracuse University, student-run media is more than just an opportunity for budding journalists to hone their craft. No one knows the ins and outs of the University like students, so no one is better positioned to share what's happening, what's now, and what's next. Students from across disciplines can be part of Syracuse's student-run media culture. Because the best way to learn is to actively do, we encourage everyone to try their hand at reporting, editing, writing, or the many other opportunities available through campus stations and publications. Peruse any of these outlets to learn more about life at Syracuse from those who truly live it: The Daily Orange CitrusTV Orange Television Network WAER Syracuse University Yearbook The OutCrowd Magazine Baked Magazine Equal Time Magazine Z89 WERW View the complete list of student organizations “Writing for The Daily Orange” Follow @oursyracuseu on Instagram for a look at Syracuse University through the eyes of our students. “I began writing for the @dailyorange my freshman year. I started out in Pulp, and made my way to becoming a political opinions columnist my junior and senior years. The DO is staffed with so many great writers and editors, and it was an honor to have their guidance. Two of my most memorable DO moments were when @theottoorange posted about an article I did on him (pictured in this post), and watching the first presidential debate with my fellow DO colleagues.” —Vanessa Salman Featured Stories Freshmen-Focused Magazine Becomes Fresh U As a first-year magazine student at the Newhouse School in fall 2013, Kate Beckman ’17 realized there were no campus publications specifically addressing the topics and issues important to freshmen. Related Pages Student Organizations Life and learning happen inside the classroom—and out! Syracuse University is home to more than 300 extracurricular groups, so you'll never run out of ways to live and learn. Campus News Stay up-to-date with news and events on campus, as well as in the surrounding City of Syracuse. Social Media Directory Connect with the Syracuse University community across campus and around the world! Catch the latest posts, photos, and news. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy