Skip to Main Content Emergency Notification COVID-19: Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. SJSU Homepage College of Professional and Global EducationSan José State University Site Navigation Professional Education Academic Programs Intersession - Winter Open University Intersession - Summer Professional Development and Workforce Training SV Big Data and Cybersecurity Center Professional Development and CEU Programs Academics Applied Data Science Department School of Information CPGE Student Success Center Faculty Resources Global Education International Student Recruitment International Gateways International House International Student and Scholar Services Study Abroad and Away International Students Partnerships International Recruitment Partners International Academic Partners Education and Training Delegation Visits About Mission Dean's Office Employment Opportunities Events Video Gallery Team CPGE Contact Us SJSU Home>College of Professional and Global Education one.SJSU Canvas Athletics Give to SJSU Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube CPGE Job Openings The College of Professional and Global Education (CPGE) currently has several positions open. >>> learn more Phone: 408.924.2670 Fax: 408.924.2666 Email: cpge@sjsu.edu site index I want to... Click to select one take the Master of Science in Data Analytics take a Winter Session course earn an academic degree get a certificate take Open University courses enroll in summer school take online courses gain technical skills in project management apply to SJSU learn English language study abroad lead a faculty-led program overseas live with international students get advice for my student visa become an SJSU partner earn an academic degree The College of Professional and Global Education (CPGE) provides today's busy student with dynamic new ways to go to college. We serve adult professionals interested in enhancing their careers with graduate degrees and certificates, local students wishing to add credit toward their march toward graduation, non-credit courses for professional development and corporate training, and access for remote students seeking online course alternatives. We offer college courses for credit online and on-campus. SJSU is the university of choice for international students seeking to start their career path in the midst of Silicon Valley, the world’s center of innovation and business development. Our campus offers support and resources to help international students enroll, adjust and thrive. San José State Named An Inaugural Fulbright HSI Leader San José State University has been named a Fulbright HSI Leader by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA), recognizing the noteworthy engagement that selected Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) have achieved with the Fulbright Program. San José State is one of 35 HSIs to receive this inaugural distinction with the Fulbright Program, the United States government’s flagship international educational exchange program. Read more Standing Up to Anti-Asian Racism and Hate Crimes As the United States continues to grapple with the recent rise of anti-Asian hate crimes, the College of Professional and Global Education (CPGE) condemns these acts and stands in solidarity with the victims and their families and friends. The larger Asian community comprises many of the students, faculty, and staff at SJSU. CPGE is especially concerned about the international students we serve from regions in the world that may have been targets of these unacceptable acts. Read more Academic Programs MS in Data Analytics Summer Session Earn a graduate degree or certificate to advance your professional career. Academic Programs Earn a Master of Science in Data Analytics (MSDA) from San Jose State University. Master of Science in Data Analytics Regular online and on campus SJSU courses, no admission required. Summer Session ISSS International Gateways Open University Resources for international students and scholars International Student and Scholar Services English Language, Academic Test Prep and Curricular support International Gateways Explore SJSU courses online and on campus. No admission required. Open University International House Study Abroad and Away Intl. Student Recruitment Co-ed university housing. Meets on campus freshman requirements. International House Short or Long-term global study opportunities Study Abroad and Away International student resources and application support International Student Recruitment SJSU Links and Resources Information for Alumni Current Students Donors Faculty and Staff Future Students Researchers Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Sciences Quick Links A-Z Index Academics Bookstore Budget Central Calendars Canvas Careers and Jobs Catalog Emergency Food & Housing King Library Land Acknowledgement Parking and Maps Privacy Annual Security Report [pdf] Contact us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint San José State University One Washington Square, San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 ©2018 Last Modified: Feb 4, 2022