Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Technology MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Technology MS Apply Request More Info Music Technology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Music Technology Advance your understanding of music technology and expand your practical experience in the field with the Master of Science in Music Technology in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. The Music Technology MS fuses musical skill and technological expertise, affording graduate students the opportunity to pursue specialized research, creative work and applied experience. After graduation, students enter careers in the contemporary recording arts and work scoring for film, video games and digital audio. Others prepare to seek further academic study through doctoral programs. Designed for students with backgrounds in computer audio programming, audio or electrical engineering, or electroacoustic composition, the Master of Science in Music Technology offers students the chance to advance their experience and understanding of research and practice at the graduate level. This 31-credit master’s program features an interdisciplinary sequence of increasingly rigorous courses in computer science, general education, mathematics, music performance, music and recording technology, and music studies. During your time in the Music Technology MS program, you'll have ample opportunity to collaborate on your creative projects solo or with fellow classmates in Temple’s state-of the-art facilities, including fully equipped music recording, editing and mixing rooms, all with surround sound. Learn more about the university’s audio and recording facilities. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover music technology faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer music technology degree programs. Classes & Curriculum Music Technology MS students have two years to complete their degree. The coursework in this 31-credit program includes Advanced Audio Production; Digital Signal Processing for Music; Hearing Music: Acoustics and Psychoacoustics of Music; New Music Seminar; Seminar in Audio Software Design; and Seminar in Physical Computing and Electronic Instrument Design. Learn more about the Master of Science in Music Technology classes. Related Graduate Degrees Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Composition MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Music Theory MM Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer College of Music and Dance faculty. Program Contact Steven Kreinberg is the director of music technology. Phone: 215-204-8098 Email: kreinberg@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. ConTemplum hosts numerous concerts, forums and seminars to foster a community of musicians who are dedicated to exploring contemporary musical ideas and performing new compositions. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. Temple University Theory and Musicology Society (THEMUS) gives students an open forum to discuss and develop scholarly work within the disciplines of music theory and musicology. Each semester, THEMUS hosts guest, faculty and student lectures. THEMUS organizes a regional graduate student conference each year for theory and musicology. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. BC-MUTE-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Technology MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info