Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site More Sites Main College College News About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Give Search Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Faculty Awards and Fellowships 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cooper Fellows About Us College Leadership Dean's Message Vision & Mission Strategic Plan College Services Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Honors Programs Dual Degree Programs Cooper Fellows Student Awards and Accomplishments Research & Outreach Centers & Institutes Resources for Researchers Faculty Support Young Scholars Program Research News Resources Find your Advisor Student Life Parents Resources Faculty and Staff A&S Academic Continuity Plan News & Events Events & Calendar Social Media Directory A&S Magazine Faculty Awards and Fellowships New Faculty Give More Sites Main College College News Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Faculty Awards and Fellowships 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cooper Fellows About Us Academics Research & Outreach Resources News & Events Giving Home Academics 2021 Faculty Awards & Fellowships AAA 2021 Faculty Awards & Fellowships Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Departments and Programs Faculty Awards and Fellowships 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Cooper Fellows These are the awards and fellowships for the current year. Click the side menu links to view awards and fellowships from previous years. Susanna Allés Torrent, Associate Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received the Mellon Public Knowledge Award. Also, received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities (2021). Olena Antonaccio, Professor of Sociology & Criminology, Received the 2021-2022 Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences Outstanding Mentor Award Mike Antoni, Received the Society of Behavioral Medicine Lifetime Achievement Award. Chrissy Arce, Associate Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities Traci Arden, Professor of Anthropology, Awarded A&S Cooper Fellowship. Stewart Barnes, Professor of Physics, Invited researcher, Advanced Science Research Center (ASRC) of Japan. Atomic Energy Agency and Riken Wako Japan. Hove Invitation for Summer 2021 to LUT Finland. Joy Beverly, Lecturer of Mathematics, Received the Luis Glaser Mentorship Award (2021). Recognized by the University as one of the Unsung Heroes during the pandemic. Brian Blankenship, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Received the Stanton Nuclear Security Fellowship, Council on Foreign Relations, Washington, DC, 2020-2021. Otávio Bueno, Professor of Philosophy, Elected as a Titular Member of the Académie Internationale de Philosophie des Sciences (AIPS) - 2021. Steven Butterman, Associate Professor of Modern Languages and Literatures, was Selected for the Fulbright Award to Brazil (AY2021-2022). Logan Connors, Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received an NEH Stipend (Summer 2021). Xavier Cortada, Professor of Practice in the Department of Art and Art History, is the recipient of a 2021 National Wetlands Award from the Environmental Law Institute. Thomas Curtright, is recognized as a Distinguished Alumnus of the University of Missouri. Louise Davidson-Schmich, Professor of Political Science, was Elected co-chair of the American Political Science Association’s Women, Gender, and Sexuality Research section. Traci Devine Guzman, Associate Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received a UM Fellowship in the Arts and Humanities (2021). Marvin Dawkins, Professor of the Department of Sociology, is the recipient of this year’s James W. McLamore Outstanding Service Award from the Faculty Senate. Jill Ehrenreich-May, Elected President of Association of Behavioral & Cognition. Patricia Engel, Associate Professor of English, has won the prestigious New American Voices Award from the Institute for Immigration Research (https://fallforthebook.org/patriciaengel_winner/) for her latest, widely celebrated novel, Infinite Country. Spencer Evans, 2021 American Psychological Society Rising Star Award. Nadia Gal, Lecturer Mathematics, Awarded Fellow in the Faculty Learning Community on Learning through Dialogue and Discussion in Flipped Learning Cohort (2021) Mauro Galetti, Associate Professor of Biology, Clarivate Highly Cited Researcher in Ecology and Environment. Xue Gao, Assistant Professor of Political Science, Received a UM Fellowship in the Arts & Humanities Award (2021-2022). Dr. Amina Gautier, Associate Professor of English, was recently awarded the 2021 Letras Boricuas Fellowship, created by The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and the Flamboyan Foundation’s Arts Fund. The fellowship was given to 20 Puerto Rican writers whose work spans genres including fiction, poetry, creative nonfiction, and children’s literature. The new fellowship was created to identify, elevate, and amplify the voices of emerging and established Puerto Rican writers on the island and across the U.S. Dr. Gautier is the author of two short story collections: Now We Will Be Happy (University of Nebraska Press, 2014), which won the Prairie Schooner Book Prize and At-Risk (University of Georgia Press, 2011), which won the Flannery O’Connor Award for Short Fiction. David Graf, Professor of the Department of Religious Studies, has received a Fulbright Award to Jordan for the academic year 2021-22. Pamela Geller, Associate Professor Anthropology, Received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities. Ager Gondra, Assistant Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities (2021). David Graf, Professor of the Department of Religious Studies, has received an NEH Fellowship for 4 months in Jordan from Sept. 1, 2022 to Dec. 31, 2022. Henry Green, Professor of Religious Studies, Received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities (2021). Scott Heerman, Associate Professor of History, Awarded an NEH Fellowship for calendar year 2022. Danielle Houck, Sr. Lecturer of writing Studies, Received Toppel Career Center Distinguished Faculty Member of the Year Award Nicole Humphrey, best Article Award, Vol. 40 – Review of Public Personal Administration for: Portillo, S., Barfield, D., and Humphrey, N. (2020). “The Myth of Bureaucratic Neutrality: Institutionalized Inequity in Public Administration.” Review of Public Personnel Administration, 40 (3), pp. 516-531. Received on March 11, 2021. Gail Ironson, Elected President, American Psychosomatic Society - International Positive Psychology Assoc., Positive Health & Wellness. Gail Ironson, Professor of Psychology, received the Contributions in Positive Health Award, which recognizes individuals with long and distinguished careers who have made a notable impact on the field of positive health. Cae Joseph-Massena, Assistant of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received a Fellowship from the Center for the Humanities Allannah Karas, Assistant Professor of Classics, was Awarded a Fellowship by the National Humanities Center for 9/7/2021 – 5/27/2022. Allannah Karas, Assistant Professor of Classics, Awarded an ACLS Fellowship for AY22 and Summer 2022. David Kling, Professor and Chair of Religious Studies, Received A&S Cooper Fellowship (2021). Annette LaGreca, ELected President, American Psychological Associ., Division 12. Susan Leary, Lecturer of Writing Studies, Received Toppel Career Center Distinguished Faculty Member of the Year Award. Thomas Lisse, Anthony Norman Award, International Vitamin D Conference and Workshop, Keystone Symposia, 2021 – Contributions towards impactful Vitamin D research. Roger McIntosh, Academy of Behavioral Medicine Research, Early Stage Investigator Fellowship Award. Neil Schneiderman, James L. Knight Professor of Psychology, received the Lifetime Achievement Award at the 22nd Annual Zubrod Memorial Lecture. Maria Magdalena LLabre, Professor of Psychology, Received A&S Cooper Fellowship (2021). Maria Magdalena LLabre, Professor of Psychology, Received excellence in Graduate Teaching Award from the Graduate Students in the Department of Psychology. Yanerys Leon, Research Assistant and Professor of Psychology, Received an APA Division 25: BF Skinner New Applied Researcher Award (2021) Tomas Lopez, Professor of Art & Art History, Received the Faculty Senate Chair’s Special Award (2021) Karen Mathews, Associate professor Art & Art History, Received President’s Academic Innovation Fellow (2021) Imelda Moise, Associate Professor of Geography & Sustainable Development, Received the 2021 Luis Glaser Mentorship Award. 2019-2022 U.S. Imelda Moise, Associate Professor of Geography & Sustainable Development, Fulbright Specialist, U.S. Department of State Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (extended to 2024). Brenna Munro, Associate Professor of English Literature, Received an NEH Fellowship Award. Catherine Newell, Associate Professor, Religious Studies Department, Elected Fellow to the International Society for Science and Religion in 2021. Kathryn Nowotny, Associate Professor of Sociology and Criminology, Received the 2021 Junior Scholar Award in Research Excellence from the Drinking and Drugs Division of the Society for the Study of Social Problems. 2021 William R. Jones Outstanding Mentor Award from the Florida Education Fund. Selected as a Public Voices Fellow. Kathryn Nowotny, Associate Professor of Sociology and Criminology, Received the 2021 William R. Jones Outstanding Mentor Award from the Florida Education Fund. Selected as a Public Voices Fellow. Kathryn Nowotny, Associate Professor of Sociology and Criminology, Selected as a Public Voices Fellow. Kathryn Nowotny, Associate Professor of Sociology and Criminology, received the William R. Jones Outstanding Mentor Award, Florida Education Fund & McKnight Scholar Program and the Junior Scholar Award, Drinking & Drugs Division, Society for the Study of Social Problems. Samanta Pazos, Lecturer of Theatre Arts, Selected artist 2021 at ScreenDance Film Festival. Frank Penedo, Society of Behavioral Medicine, Outstanding Senior Investigator Award . Gema Perez Sanchez, Associate Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received a Fellowship in the Humanities (2021). Alejandro Portes, Research Professor of Sociology & Criminology,Received a Doctorate, Honoris Causa, from the University of Alicante, Spain. Alejandro Portes, Research Professor of Sociology & Criminology, Elected president of the Eastern Sociological Society. Alejandro Portes, Research Professor of Sociology & Criminology, Commencement address delivered at the start of the academic year at the invitation of the Complutense University of Madrid and the Ortega Y Gasset University Institute (2021). Dominique Reill, Associate Professor of History, Awarded honorable Mention from the ASEEES Barbara Jelavich Book Award for The Fiume Crisis: Life in the Wake of the Habsburg Empire. Mark Rowlands, Professor, and Chair of Philosophy, Received A&S Cooper Fellowship (2021). Steven Safren, Professor of Psychology, received the Provost’s Award for Scholarly Activity. Shouraseni Sen Roy, Professor of Department of Geography and Sustainable Development, was awarded a senior short-term fellowship to carry out her project, “Living on the Edge: Resilience in the Face of Climate Change in the Indian Sunderban Delta.” Professor Roy’s fellowship is funded by a grant from the U.S. State Department Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) through CAORC. Allison Schifani, Assistant Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, Received a Quality Enhancement Plan award (2021). Fellowship in the Arts and Humanities Award (2021). Allison Schifani, Assistant Professor of Modern Languages & Literatures, received a fellowship in the Arts and Humanities Award (2021). Haim Shaked, Professor of International Studies, Joins The Honorary Board and Advisory Board of the Jewish Heritage Alliance. Liz Simpson, James McKeen Cattell Sabbatical Fellowship. Elizabeth Simpson, Associate Professor of Psychology, Received the 2021-2022 Cattell Sabbatical Award to Study Both Controlled, Laboratory Assessments of Infant Behavior and to develop methods to do online Caregiver Assessments of Infants. Senaya Tawfik, Associate Professor of Clinical Psychology, Elected President, Association of Psychology Training Clinics (APTC)-APA Training Council. Joseph Uscinski, Professor of Political Science, Elected Lifetime Fellow to Committee for Skeptical Inquiry Michelle Wachs Galloway, Professor of Mathematics, received the Distinguished Faculty Scholar Award from the Faculty Senate (2021) Amy Weisman de Mamani, ABCT Trailblazer Award. Jonathan West, Professor of Political Science, Received the Luis Glaser Mentorship Award (2021) Amy Zanne, Elected Fellow, Ecological Society of America (2021) University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Arts and Sciences 1252 Memorial Drive Ashe Building - Rm # 227 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard WebMail Leave Feedback UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Library Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Contact Us Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices