Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Facilities Management FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Show/Hide SERVICES Customer Service FM Partnership Program Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... MAPS Campus Map AED Locations Accessibility Map Space Reports Building List Building Space Download Maps PROJECTS Capital Projects Current Active Projects List Brook Street Residence Halls Churchill House Renovation and Addition Greenhouse Gas Reduction & Decarbonization Project LGBTQ Identity Center Lincoln Field Building Renovation & Addition Lindemann Performing Arts Center Completed Marston Boathouse Renewal Phase 2 Wellness Center & Residence Hall Center for Lacrosse and Soccer GeoChem Infrastructure Renewal John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Library School of Professional Studies Sharpe House Relocation Division of Applied Mathematics Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship 164 Angell Street Renovation Pizzitola Sports Center Friedman Hall Building Renovation John Hay Library 85 Waterman Street Stephen Robert '62 Hall Andrews Commons South Street Landing Barus & Holley, Prince Lab Engineering Research Center Keeney Quad Miller, Metcalf, & Andrews Halls 315 Thayer Jonathan M. Nelson Fitness & Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Metcalf Research Building Warren Alpert Medical School Brown Stadium Turf Renovation Meehan Auditorium Team Experience Phase I Thermal Efficiency Project Perry & Marty Granoff Center for the Creative Arts Planning Resources Project Delivery Process Project Initiation Organization Delivery Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 Turnover Project Management Tools Project Information Management System Benchmarking Dashboard Reporting Decision Matrix Risk Register Schedule Analysis Design Standards Webcams SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT FM Leadership Mission & Values Organizational Chart News Newsletter Announcements Hours of Operation Directions FM PORTAL Planon FM Reportal Other Apps Meridian BEE FM Web Reports Floor Plans Dorm Floor Plans Planon FM IT FM Maps Admin Maps URL Builder Active Building List Internal Memos Suggestion Box COVID-19 COVID FAQs COVID Cleaning FAQs Disinfectant Cleaner FAQs Portable Air Cleaner FAQs Toilet Seat Cover FAQs Touchless Campus FAQs FM Partnerships HVAC & Water Systems FAQs HVAC Building Narratives Building Ventilation Matrix Heating and Cooling Systems Facilities Management will be cycling off the Central Heat Plan as of May 17, 2020. This will officially be the end of the 2019-2020 heating season for those buildings supplied by the Plant. Facilities Management will then begin to transition University buildings to air-conditioning readiness. With the University extension of Academic staff telecommuting during the Covid-19 pandemic, Facilities Management staff will enable air-conditioning in each building based on environmental requirements and building demand. It is important to understand that there are a wide variety of heating and cooling system types installed within the various university buildings. The types of systems installed within a building have an effect on the overall comfort levels throughout each of the spaces within the building. Similarly, the types and location of building controls and control systems, such as thermostats, along with other variables such as the room exposure (north, south, east, west), the room internal heat sources (lights, people, computers, etc.), are all factors that have an impact on overall space comfort and temperature. For these reasons there may be a temperature swing from the intended university temperature policy heating and cooling setpoints. (View the temperature policy.) Also, certain research facilities may have differing temperature setpoints, which are dictated more by the nature of the work than by the temperature policy. During the "shoulder" seasons in the spring and fall, it is important to remember to close your windows in the evening when temperatures are expected to drop. Not doing so can lead to a chilly building space in the morning. Additionally, refer to the air conditioning and heating changeover schedule to find out when your building's heat (in the fall) or air conditioning (in the spring) will be turned on. Many of the campus buildings utilize heating and cooling systems that are of a "changeover" design, which allows for the system to provide for either cooling or heating depending upon the season, but not both at the same time. The "changeover" design is a concern during the shoulder seasons, as facilities management staff must manually change the operation of the building system from heating to cooling and vice versa. As this changeover process is time-consuming, the changeover schedule is annually set based on the building needs, outside air temperatures and anticipated weather forecasts. For a more detailed summary of representative types of building heating and cooling systems as well as their various control system types, refer to the building temperature control parameters. Additional HVAC information on research buildings is located on the Research Building HVAC Info page. Submit Service Request & Event Support Request Customer Service Operations and Maintenance Heating and Cooling Sold Service Estimates Divisions Planning, Design & Construction Sustainability Event and Conference Real Estate Custodial and Moves More... Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Facilities Management Brown University Box 1941 295 Lloyd Ave. Providence, RI 02912 Directions Facility Emergency: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Service Request: Tel: (401) 863-7800 Main Office: Tel: (401) 863-7850 Fax: (401) 863-7885 FM Portal FM Home Maps Feedback Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat