Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Contact Us Learn. Grow. Transform. Home Executive Education Contact Us More in this section Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Certificates Boot Camps Contact Us Meet the team Rony Shir Assistant Dean, Executive Education (O): 305-284-6889 rshir@miami.edu Rony Shir is the Assistant Dean overseeing Executive Education at Miami Herbert Business School. In her role, she focuses on leading the strategic and operational priorities of the School’s Executive Education Department. Rony works closely with faculty and staff to develop and deliver a portfolio of non-degree programs and facilitate collaboration and sustainable partnerships with clients. She oversees program design and implementation focused on the financial and operational aspects, with keen attention to the success in both content delivery and program execution. She graduated valedictorian and Summa Cum Laude from the University of Miami’s Professional MBA Program. Dr. Henrik Cronqvist Vice Dean, Lifelong Learning (O): 305-284-9914 hcronqvist@bus.miami.edu Dr. Henrik Cronqvist is the Vice Dean of Lifelong Learning and Executive Education at Miami Herbert. He has led executive education programs in the US, Asia, and Latin America, and is actively involved in consulting with corporations, investment firms, banks, and law firms. He has developed many business cases and simulation models, which illustrate complex managerial decisions, and has led many blended and experiential education initiatives. For his full biography, click here. Frequently Asked Questions: General Inquiries Who is your Executive Education program open to? The University of Miami Herbert Business School Executive Education Program is open to mid- to senior-level managers seeking to enhance their leadership skills and managerial expertise. We tailor programs for organizational teams from a wide range of industries, as well as the nonprofit sector, and welcome participants from finance, sales, marketing, operations, human resources, or any other area of the organization. What is the duration of the program? Executive Education programs are tailored and vary in duration. Average program length is 3-5 days, but we can adapt to any timeframe, from condensed 1-day sessions up to 15 weeks of content. What can I expect before, during, and after the program? Your program facilitator will work with you to establish the programming that best suits your needs. Communication will remain open throughout the program to allow you to address any questions or concerns. Your facilitator will likewise reach out to you at the end of the program for final details and program completion. How many hours a week does the program require? You may expect to dedicate about four to eight hours a week. You are responsible for setting your own schedule outside of set dates and times for lectures or modules. For the best learning environment, we recommend that you pace yourself throughout the week without cramming for end-of-week deadlines. Will I receive university credits? The Executive Education courses comprise a non-degree program and do not provide university credits or a diploma. You will receive a certificate of completion upon successful evaluation of all assignments and active participation. How are assignments evaluated? While program completion will not be based on grades, all assignments will be evaluated for thorough adherence to specified requirements. When or how will I receive the syllabus and course material? Within the first few days of the course start date, participants receive access to a dedicated course website with all course material, including syllabus, videos, assignments, and any other relevant content. Each student will have a login and password. Is the course website accessible via mobile device? Yes, you may access the course website either on desktop or mobile device. Your program facilitator will provide the steps to follow for mobile device access shortly before the program start date. How many team members of my organization can participate? For in-person programs, we limit participation to 50 team members. For teams larger than 50, an online format may be a better fit. However, we try to cap large teams in either format to enable program facilitators to provide responsive and reliable feedback to all students. We maintain a boutique-style approach for a satisfying and fulfilling learning experience. Frequently Asked Questions: In-Person Programs What if participants have questions outside of lecture hours? Communication with your program facilitator or faculty member may occur through email or online through the program discussion board. If we are outside of the state or country, how can we arrange for a faculty member to come to us? All coordination will occur between you and your program facilitator. Our designated faculty member will visit you at your facility or a designated conference hall for lectures and established programming. Frequently Asked Questions: Online Programs Are online programs presented live? Our online programs may be either asynchronous, meaning without live faculty presence and delivered through recorded presentations, or synchronous, with a live faculty member conducting lectures via Zoom-enabled technology. How can I communicate with faculty or program administrators? Communication can occur through the website discussion board and email. Also, your facilitator will be in continuous communication with announcements and program details. How will I interact online with members of my team? All team members may communicate asynchronously through discussion boards and group sessions enabled in the online course portal. Location Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 Contact Us Rony Shir, Executive Director, Executive Education rshir@miami.edu 305-284-6889 Follow Us Visit LinkedIn Visit YouTube Visit Instagram Visit Twitter Visit Facebook Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback