Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Prospective Newly Admitted Current Alumni Columbia University School of General Studies Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Admissions Educational Financing Academics Student Services About Undergraduate Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Transfer Students Postbac Premed Admissions How to Apply Eligibility Application Deadlines and Decisions Information Sessions/Campus Visits Newly Admitted Students International Students Planning Day Placement Exams University-Wide Placement Exams U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Types of Financial Aid Institutional Scholarships Federal and State Grants Loans Private Scholarships and Grants Student Employment Financial Aid for Military Veterans Post-9/11 GI Bill® and the Yellow Ribbon Program Veterans Request for Certification Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Prospective Students Newly Admitted Students Current Students University Employees Postbac Premed Students Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Undergraduate The Core Curriculum Degree Fulfillment Course Listings Majors and Concentrations Research Opportunities Study Abroad Academic Calendar Postbac Premed Program Curriculum & Courses Sample Schedule Course Listings Preparatory Coursework Previously Completed Coursework Glide Year Master’s Programs Academic Calendar Applying to Medical School General Admission Linkage Admission Linkage Specific Program Requirements Reapplicants Letters of Recommendation Academic Policies Registration Enrollment and Courseload Leaves and Withdrawals Academic Integrity and Standards Faculty of Arts and Sciences Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Programs & Services Jumpstart Series Tutoring Peer Advising Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Accelerated Master's Programs Fellowships and Research Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Leadership Development Multicultural & Social Justice Education Programs Student Organizations Upcoming Events Veterans Resources and Initiatives Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries School of General Studies You are here: Home Admissions Newly Admitted Students Placement Exams Placement Exams Many incoming GS students will be required to take a placement exam in chemistry, mathematics, and/or quantitative reasoning. Placement exams are instrumental in establishing a student’s level of proficiency in these subjects. The results of these exams determine a student's accurate placement in related courses. Students should consult with their academic advisor to confirm if they are required to take any of these exams, and should not register without advisor approval. Exams in mathematics and chemistry are offered online and may be taken at any time after the student's first advising appointment and prior to the start of the student's first semester. Exams in quantitative reasoning are offered in-person during Orientation Week. Please note that each placement exam may only be taken once. Important Notes There are no practice exams for the placement exams. Students should refer to the below placement exam details for information about topics that will be covered. Students will receive their placement exam scores immediately following the completion of the exams. Students who have questions after receiving their results should follow up with their academic advisor. Students are allowed to register for courses contingent upon the outcome of a placement exam. Students who do not receive the required score for a given course will be required to modify their registration. Testing Accommodations for Students with Disabilities In some cases, students with disabilities are entitled to accommodations related to administration of examinations, including placement exams. Such accommodations must be specified as well as authorized by Disability Services, based on an assessment of the disability and appropriate documentation. This authorization process can often take a month, once all required documentation is received. Students with learning disabilities or other disabilities that may warrant an accommodation should contact Disability Services immediately upon receipt of their acceptance letter. Exams Administered by the Office of Disability Services Students who take a placement exam through the Office of Disability Services will receive their scores within 24-48 hours via email. Language Placement Exams Because a language course may fill up before a student is able to take the relevant placement exam, students are allowed to register for language courses contingent upon the outcome of a placement exam. Students who do not receive the required score for a given course will be required to modify their registration. For information about language placement exams, including exam dates and registration requirements, visit the University-Wide Placement Exams page. American Language Program (ALP) Essay Exam Columbia University students must be fully proficient with written and spoken English. The need to take the Online ALP Essay Exam is a determination made by the Admissions Committee at the time of acceptance and enrollment at Columbia University is contingent on taking the exam. Learn More Expand all Collapse all GS Placement Exams Chemistry The chemistry placement exam will test basic knowledge of chemistry required for enrollment in General Chemistry I [CHEM UN1403]. The exam will be an online self-assessment. Based on the online exam result, students are welcome to register for either the Intensive General Chemistry (CHEM UN1604) or Intensive Organic Chemistry I (CHEM UN2045) lecture classes. During the second week of classes, another placement assessment will made and students will then determine, together with their instructor, which class will be best to continue with. More details about the online exam are forthcoming. Exam Details Timing, Composition, and Scoring 60 minutes 35 multiple-choice questions 20/35 passing score Topics and Preparation The following topics are covered on the chemistry placement exam. Students should review a high school chemistry book or online video tutorial to prepare for the exam. A periodic table is provided, but calculators are not permitted. Acids and bases Atomic and nuclear structure Balancing chemical equations Chemical bonding and its relation to molecular structure Chemical reactions Chemistry nomenclature Equilibria Gas laws Kinetics Periodic properties of elements Phase changes Stoichiometry Thermodynamics Exam Results Students who receive a score of 20 or above may enroll in General Chemistry I [CHEM UN1403]. Students who receive a score of 18-20 are encouraged to take Preparation for College Chemistry in the fall [CHEM UN0001] or summer [CHEM S0001], as they may have difficulty with General Chemistry I [CHEM UN1403]. Students should speak with their advisor to determine a plan during their initial advising appointment. Students who receive a score of 17 or below will be required to take Preparation for College Chemistry in the fall [CHEM UN0001] or summer [CHEM S0001]. Transfer Credit Students who have received transfer credit, or who have transfer credit pending, for chemistry courses taken elsewhere should consult with their advisor to determine whether they should take the chemistry placement exam. Register Students may take the exam online any time between Monday, March 28, 2022 to Friday, September 2, 2022. Register Mathematics The mathematics placement exam consists of two parts. It is suggested that students review the material described below before taking the exam, as it may not be retaken. Material for both parts I and II should be covered in any standard algebra textbook. Math Part I Passing Math Part I will place students into College Algebra and Analytic Geometry [MATH UN1003], Columbia's pre-calculus course. Students who pass part I must take part II if they would like to enroll in Calculus I. Timing, Composition, and Scoring 45 minutes 20 multiple-choice problems 16/20 passing score Topics and Preparation The following topics are covered in Math Part I. Students may consult a high school textbook or online video tutorial covering these subjects to review for Math Part I. Calculators are not permitted. Order of Operations Manipulating Fractions Distributive Law Square Root Linear Equations in One Variable Factoring and Multiplying Algebraic Expressions Coordinates and Graphs (two variables) Inequalities Absolute Value Algebraic Fractions Properties of Straight Lines Functions Quadratic Equations Register Students may take the exam online any time between Monday, March 28, 2022 to Friday, September 2, 2022. Register Math Part II Passing Math Part II will place students into Calculus I. Students may take Part II if and only if they pass Part I. Timing, Composition, and Scoring 40 minutes 12 multiple-choice problems 9/12 passing score Topics and Preparation The following topics are covered on Math Part II. Students may review a high school textbook or online video tutorial covering these subjects to review for Math Part II. Calculators are not permitted. Functions Trigonometric Identity Logarithms Graphing Functions Inequalities Distance Register Students may take the exam online any time between Monday, March 28, 2022 to Friday, September 2, 2022. Register Exam Results Students who do not pass Part I may take a course in Basic Mathematics [MATH S0065] during the summer session in order to prepare for College Algebra and Analytic Geometry [MATH UN1003]. They should consult with their academic advisor for more information and options. Students who pass Part I, but not Part II, will be required to take College Algebra and Analytic Geometry [MATH UN1003], which is offered during the fall, spring, and summer sessions. This is Columbia's pre-calculus course. Students who pass both Part I and Part II may enroll in Calculus I [MATH UN1101]. Transfer Credit Students who have received transfer credit, or who have transfer credit pending, for the equivalent of MATH UN1003 (a pre-calculus or college algebra and trigonometry course taken elsewhere) should still take the math placement exam in order to determine their readiness to take Calculus I [MATH UN1101]. Students who have received transfer credit, or who have transfer credit pending, for a calculus course taken elsewhere must follow up with the Department of Mathematics for placement into the appropriate Columbia course. For more information, visit the website. Quantitative Reasoning The quantitative reasoning exam is a one-hour placement exam that allows students entering GS the opportunity to test out of the quantitative reasoning core requirement. The exam is not required, but is recommended for students who have not met the quantitative reasoning requirement through SAT or ACT test scores or through prior coursework. The exam consists of 23 questions—16 multiple-choice and 7 free-response. Students must obtain a score of 20 to fulfill the quantitative reasoning requirement, and a score of 16 to be able to enroll in Frontiers of Science. Calculators are permitted during the exam. The exam will test students' skills in the following areas: Logic Trigonometry Quadratic Algebra Linear Equations/Algebra Statistics Interpreting Graphs Percentages and Ratios Systems Exponential Functions Volume Students interested in taking the QR exam should speak with their advisor about the process. Make an Appointment Undergraduate Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University School of General Studies 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Postbac Premed Contact Information Office of Admissions Columbia University Postbac Premed Program 408 Lewisohn Hall, MC 4101 2970 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: +1 (212) 854-2772 Toll Free: (800) 895-1169 Fax: +1 (212) 854-6316 [email protected] Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Postbac Premed Admissions Newly Admitted Students U.S. Military Veterans International Dual Degree Programs Educational Financing Types of Financial Aid Financial Aid for Military Veterans Cost of Attendance Applying for Financial Aid Counseling Appointments Enrollment Update Form Student Account Refunds Academics Undergraduate Postbac Premed Program Applying to Medical School Academic Policies Faculty of Arts and Sciences Student Services Undergraduate Announcements Postbac Premed Announcements Academic Advising Academic Resource Center Campus Services Forms and Guides Graduation Health and Wellness Housing International Students Medical School Fair Planning Your Future Premedical Clinical and Research Positions Student Life Veterans Resources and Initiatives About Leadership Mission History Statistics and Facts Notable Alumni University Policies Events Staff Directory Faculty News Press Coverage Media Inquiries Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close