COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Meet a Shocker: Rachel Wiebe, exercise science major May 11, 2020 - Rachel Wiebe earned a bachelors degree in exercise science. Meet a Shocker: Amy Nguyen, school psychology grad May 8, 2020 - Amy Nguyen wanted a new challenge as a teacher. Wichita State University’s school psychology program offers her the chance to add to use her teaching skills and add new ones. “I believe school psychology is the perfect combination for the experience I have,” she said. Meet a Shocker: Amy Huser, Master in Fine Arts in painting May 8, 2020 — Amy Huser’s plans for her master’s thesis gallery opening have been dashed by COVID-19, but she’s not letting that stop her from achieving her graduate degree in a more virtual manner. Meet a Shocker: Angelique Banh, Bachelor of Business, triple major May 9, 2020 — Angelique Banh comes from a Shocker family, so there was never any question of where she would attend college. When she arrived on campus, she hit the ground running with three majors and a member of the Cohen Honors College leadership track. Meet a Shocker: Brandon Eckerman, Bachelor of Science in biomedical engineering May 8, 2020 — Brandon Eckerman is nostalgic about his time at Wichita State University and is disappointed he’s unable to celebrate graduation in the traditional sense. But he’s eager to start a career in medical device sales. Meet a Shocker: Vinay K. Kadarla, Ph.D in Chemistry May 6, 2020 - Vinay K. Kadarla’s dissertation details his work to understand the mechanism and structure of the muscle protein myopalladin with the goal of helping design drugs or therapies to treat cardiomyopathy. Meet a Shocker: Bush Vo, Bachelor of Business in accounting May 6, 2020 — Bush Vo was drawn the Wichita State University by the reputation of the Barton School of Business, and he has been able to leverage the school’s resources to create opportunities for himself. Meet a Shocker: Cynthia Matson, Bachelor of Business in finance and economics May 6, 2020 — Cynthia Matson’s Wichita State University experiences and an internship opportunity have led her to a full-time career in finance. Meet a Shocker: Eduardo Castillo, communication grad Dec. 19, 2019 -- Eduardo Castillo won't let anything stop him from being successful. Even though having a speech impediment can make it more difficult to communicate, Eduardo has found a channel that best suits him. By telling his story through video, Eduardo feels like he can finally say what he wants to. Congratulations to Eduardo Castillo for being one of more than 1,100 students who were eligible to graduate this fall. Meet a Shocker: Stella Yang, economics graduate Dec. 12, 2019 -- Stella Yang has served in many roles on campus since she enrolled in 2016, including business senator and treasurer of Student Government Association, as well as vice president of Asian Student Conference. Meet a Shocker: Noah and Shauna Holloway, education grads Dec. 11, 2019 -- Noah and Shauna Holloway are education majors in the Teacher Apprentice Program at Wichita State. They are parents of two who took classes while teaching full-time. They earned their degrees with help from family and by working with professors when life intervened. Meet a Shocker: Gavrilla Arya, biology and chemistry grad Dec. 11, 2019 -- Wichita State senior Gavrilla Arya excelled as a biological sciences major and helped the golf team to the 2016 NCAA regional. A native of Indonesia, Arya earned academic All-American honors four times. Meet a Shocker: Sydney Easterberg, sociology grad Dec. 10, 2019 -- During Sydney's time at Wichita State she took courses that influenced her experiences and career path. She's loved her time on campus and appreciates all the opportunities she's lucked into. Meet a Shocker: Nayeli Cano, health management and health science grad Dec. 4, 2019 -- Nayeli Cano is passionate about helping people and wants to work with underrepresented communities to provide equal access to health care for those in need. Meet a Shocker: Michaela Marioni, video game design grad Dec. 6, 2019 -- Texas native Michaela Marioni moved to Wichita when her husband was stationed at McConnell Air Force Base in 2015, and she decided to enroll at WSU. Originally a veterinarian medicine major, Michaela discovered her talent for video editing in a class and pursued it with a passion to her graduation this month. First Previous 2 3 4 5 6 Next Last 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©