SMU Cox Display Navigation and Site Search SMU Cox School of Business SMU Cox Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Display Navigation Display Search Search SMU SMU Cox Main Navigation At SMU Cox Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An exceptional school in the heart of a vibrant, global, business-friendly city. Collins Center Cox News Cox Events Graduate Outcomes CoxToday Magazine Academic Departments Career Growth Global Programs Degrees & Programs Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Rigorous programs within a truly customized academic experience. Master of Science MS in Accounting MS in Business Analytics MS in Finance MS in Management MS Health Promotion Management MS in Sport Management MBA Full-Time Two-Year MBA Full-Time One-Year MBA MBA Direct Professional MBA Online MBA Executive MBA Joint Degrees JD/MBA MA / MBA MS Engineering / MBA Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Non-Degree Executive Education Summer Business Institute Diversity & Inclusion Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Shaping Leaders for a Changing World. Diversity at Cox Latino Leadership Initiative I Am Latino in America Subiendo Academy at SMU Cox School Dean’s Message Executive Education Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu Meet your career challenges head-on by mining the expertise of the nation's top business leaders. Programs for Individuals Custom Solutions Latino Leadership Initiative HR Roundtable Graduate Certificates Collins Center Learning Culture Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu An innovative learning culture influences the way the world does business. Centers and Institutes Academic Departments Research Business Library NextGen Cox Curriculum People & Community Display At SMU Cox Sub Menu A community where professors know students by name and help them create powerful networks. Students Alumni Faculty Companies Cox Executive Board Cox100 Press Releases Display Search Utility Navigation Students Companies Alumni Apply Contact Us smu.edu Summer Business Institute Summer Business Institute Admission Criteria Participant Profile Pricing & Loans Parent Comments Participant Comments Program Instructors Program Logistics Program Schedule Program Topics FAQ Admission Criteria Participant Profile Pricing & Loans Parent Comments Participant Comments Program Instructors Program Logistics Program Schedule Program Topics FAQ Business Basics for Non-Business Majors No matter which career path you're on, you're going to have teams to lead, budgets to analyze, products or services to market and results to deliver — all of which require a basic business education. We've designed the SMU Cox Summer Business Institute to give non-business majors and early-career professionals a firm grasp of these theories and skills as part of an intensive and dynamic experience. Taught by top professors from the Cox School MBA and Executive Education programs, this rigorous four-week certificate program will also give you career counseling, invaluable connections and a confidence that will help you push ahead as you launch this next phase in your life. Contact Us Request More Information Registration Opening Soon Before attending SBI, I had never taken a business course aside from High School economics. I have an interest in starting my own small business during my adult career so now would be a great time to start picking up the basics of it. Kenny Kovalski Mechanical Engineering, SMU Class of 2021 Jump To A Section Class Profile Curriculum Faculty Your Application & Tuition The Value of an SMU Cox SBI Certificate Contact Us Request More Information Registration Opening Soon Class Profile By The Numbers: SBI Student Majors SMU Cox Summer Business Institute students represent a vast variety of undergraduate majors, from art history to film studies, sociology and engineering. Some students discover a new career path during their short time here. A few use what they've learned to start their own business. All of the students who enter the SBI are serious about learning business and career basics to prepare for the road ahead. See the SBI class profile Curriculum Over the course of study, you’ll work with faculty mentors to explore current business issues, analyze real-world situations, and hone teamwork and interviewing skills. You'll see business in action during field trips to leading companies and interactions with visiting speakers. At the end of the month, you and your team will give a formal business presentation that pulls together everything you’ve learned. And you'll leave the program with course materials that will be valuable reference tools well into your career. Topics Accounting Marketing Finance Business law Entrepreneurship Personal Finance Career Planning Read more about topics Program Schedule The Summer Business Institute is a demanding four-week course that requires serious commitment. Monday – Friday 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Two three-hour classes per day, morning and afternoon. Two hours of homework most evenings. The final weekend may involve group work. See the complete schedule Faculty See All Institute Faculty Hemang Desai Accounting The Summer Business Institute academic director, Hemang Desai is an award-winning professor and scholar. He teaches accounting in the Institute and leads graduate business classes in mergers and acquisitions. Judy Foxman Marketing Before she launched her award-winning teaching career, Judy Foxman worked in brand management at major corporations. Besides teaching marketing at the SBI, Judy teaches undergraduate advertising, promotion and marketing classes at SMU Cox. Michael Davis Economics Michael Davis, Ph.D., specializes in the intersection of government and business. An expert in economic theory, he has researched topics ranging from how to measure the value of publicly funded sports facilities to the question of why politicians lie. Your Application & Tuition You can apply to the Summer Business Institute by completing an online application, which includes submitting your college transcript. The admissions team makes decisions on a first-come, first-served basis, and space is limited, so you should do your best to apply early. Cost Early applications are eligible for a tuition discount and must be received by April 1. Non-Residential Early Application $6495 Final Application $6995 Residential On campus housing and two meals per day included: Early Application $7995 Final Application $8495 The Value of an SMU Cox SBI Certificate Your SBI certificate tells potential employers that you understand the importance of business skills and care enough to earn an important credential from a leading business school. Not only will you have practiced presenting yourself — you'll stand out as a well-rounded candidate who is ready to make a contribution on the job from day one. During your career planning module, we'll show you how to properly list your certificate on your resume so that corporate recruiters will recognize its value. Next Steps Questions? Not sure which program fits your needs? Reach out to our team. Contact Us Request More Information SMU Cox Footer Utility Nav Give Contact Us Apply © Cox School of Business Southern Methodist University PO Box 750333 Dallas, Texas 75275-0333 214-768-2000 SMU Cox Legal Home SMU Cox on Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter