Skip to main content Menu Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Research About Home About Council for Diversity & Inclusion President’s Social Justice and Equity Task Force Members Corporate CDO Advisory Board News and Events Programs and Initiatives Supporting Diversity Contact Us Shared Leadership Access and Equity Charles H. Houston Center Diversity Education and Training Gantt Multicultural Center Hispanic Outreach Strategic Diversity Leadership Pathfinder Title IX Commissions Accessibility Commission Commission on the Black Experience Commission on Latino Affairs LGBTQ Commission Commission on Women Veterans Commission Main Content Council for Diversity and Inclusion The Clemson University Division of Inclusion and Equity is taking a holistic approach to carrying out the goals and objectives outlined in the ClemsonForward strategic plan to embrace and promote an inclusive environment for higher learning. The Clemson University Council for Diversity and Inclusion has members from across the university. Vice President & Chief of Staff and Interim Chief Diversity Officer Max Allen and Executive Vice President and Provost Robert Jones co-chair the Clemson University Council for Diversity and Inclusion. The council was established to ensure students, faculty, staff and community members have the ability to share, address and resolve issues facing the university. The nearly 50-member Council for Diversity and Inclusion is composed of faculty, staff, students, alumni, and area community leaders. Deans and Vice Presidents from all colleges and divisions appoint representatives to serve on the council alongside community leaders from the Pickens County NAACP, the president of the Urban League of the Upstate and the president of Hispanic Alliance. Gill said the guidance and insight from members of the community help shape the narrative for inclusive excellence at Clemson. President James P. Clements and Chief of Staff Max Allen are ex officio members of the council. Bob Jones, Co-Chair Provost Max Allen, Co-Chair Vice President & Chief of Staff and Interim Chief Diversity Officer University Commissions The Council also consists of six commissions: Accessibility Commission The Accessibility Commission advises and makes recommendations to the Council of Inclusion and Diversity about all areas impacting accessibility. The Commission on Latino Affairs The Commission on Latino Affairs fosters partnerships among faculty, staff, students, community members and Latinos to strengthen quality of life through cultural and educational programs, services and advocacy. The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) Commission The LGBTQ Commission advises on matters affecting LGBTQ people to ensure the university appropriately addresses issues of equity, safety and welfare for LGBTQ faculty, staff, students and guests. The commission aspires to unite various organizations working on LGBTQ programs, education and outreach at Clemson to help create a more welcoming and inclusive campus environment. The Commission on the Black Experience The Commission on the Black Experience advises the Division of Inclusion and Equity and the University about the Black experience at Clemson University and advocate for specific actions to enhance its quality and the environment. The Commission works to identify any institutional barriers or problem areas and make recommendations to enhance inclusion for Black faculty, staff and students in addition to fostering good relations with Black alumni and the local Black community. The Commission on Women The Commission on Women discerns the status of women at Clemson and documents findings; discovers and pursues the removal of institutional barriers identified by the commission; and collects information and/or conducts research regarding issues affecting women. It also explores problem areas that limit equal opportunities and advancement. The commission pledges to encourage and inspire women to become leaders, problem-solvers and innovators who make meaningful contributions to American society. Veterans Commission The Clemson University Presidential Veterans Commission was established on October 25, 2018 as the sixth University Commission. The purpose of the Veterans Commission is to serve in an advisory capacity to the university administrators, faculty, staff, and students regarding matters that affect veterans and their families. The commission seeks to create an atmosphere that encourages inclusion and to recommend policies that will improve access and opportunities for our student veterans. Contact Us Karon Donald Council for Diversity and Inclusion Program Manager karond@clemson.edu (864) 656-3496 Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram