Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Athletics Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. By GoHeels.com, Sunday, May 29th, 2022 (Photo by Jeffrey Camarati) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly North Carolina completed a perfect season with a 12-11 win over Boston College on Sunday afternoon to claim the 2022 NCAA Women’s Lacrosse Championship, the third national title in program history. The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017 (and the 11th in NCAA history). In front of a capacity crowd of 8,500 at Homewood Field on the campus of Johns Hopkins University, the Tar Heels were anchored by graduate student goalkeeper Taylor Moreno, who made 11 saves on the day. Sam Geiersbach, the hero of Carolina’s come-from-behind semifinal win over Northwestern on Friday, led Carolina in scoring with a hat trick and earned NCAA Tournament Most Outstanding Player honors with a combined eight goals in the two games on Championship Weekend. The Tar Heels got two goals each from Ally Mastroianni and Jamie Ortega (two goals on just two shots, due to the face-guarding BC defense), and single scores from Scottie Rose Growney, Andie Aldave, Caitlyn Wurzburger, Olivia Dirks and Nicole Humphrey. In all, Carolina got goals from eight different players, including five off the bench from Geiersbach, Dirks and Humphrey. “It was a total team effort,” head coach Jenny Levy told ESPN after winning her third national title in the last nine years. Charlotte North led BC with four goals, but she needed 10 shots to get them, largely because of the stingy, matchup defense of Carolina’s Emma Trenchard. Carolina jumped out to a 2-0 lead and was up, 7-5, at halftime. The Tar Heels’ biggest lead of the game was three on three separate occasions before halftime. In the second half, neither team led by more than a goal until Growney scored with 2:23 to play to put the Tar Heels up, 12-10. The Carolina defense held BC without a goal for 8:35 of the fourth quarter until the Eagles came up with a late goal to pull within one with 15 seconds remaining. Carolina won the ensuing draw and claimed the victory, beating BC for the third time this season. “First of all, congrats to BC for a great season and a great game today,” Levy said in the postgame press conference. “We knew it was going to be tough and go down to the wire. It doesn’t surprise me that that was a one-goal game. We’ve lost a lot of one-goal games, this crew, over the past couple years in the Final Four game, so it was nice to be on the other side of it. And I always think if you can lose a one-goal game, you can win a one-goal game. That’s what was going through my mind. “This was a total team effort this year from our stars on stage all the way through our roster. So [I’m] just incredibly proud and grateful at the moment.” Boston College coach Acacia Walker-Weinstein praised Moreno after the game: “She’s an amazing goalie, and I think unfortunately they have a lot of X-factors, but Taylor was one of them today and she played great. She’s a tough goalie to go against, but she’s a great player and great person, and congratulations to her.” The Tar Heels’ three national championships are tied for third-most in NCAA history. Read more stories on Carolina Athletics at GoHeels.com Categories Athletics Keep Reading Diamond Heels claim ACC title You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Good Bowls pays it forward during the pandemic A UNC Gillings School of Global Public Health professor's effort to provide healthy foods to families in need also helps struggling restaurants during the pandemic. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Pillar of Ground Services leads quietly Whether preparing for Spring Commencement or cleaning up debris in fall, Massey winner Mark Moon keeps Carolina’s campus beautiful and his colleagues safe. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail