Skip to main content Skip to main navigation SearchMenu Baylor>Search Find Site By A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Websites starting with 'F': Facilities Management Facilities Management is responsible for the design, construction and maintenance of Baylor University buildings, grounds and utilities. Facility Services The mission of Baylor Facility Services is to operate and enhance the physical assets of the Baylor campus providing a quality environment that will encourage academic excellence within a Christian framework. Faculty & Staff Providing the resources you need in an easily accessible format is the goal of the new Faculty & Staff web site. You will find on this site essential resources for Baylor faculty and staff, providing a single-stop for electronic news, the calendar, the online directory, links to the many information and system resources used by faculty and staff as well as links to timely information essential to faculty and staff members. You can even check Baylor's weather. Faculty Development and Belonging The Baylor community is fully committed to nurturing an environment for knowing, being, and doing across campus where people of all backgrounds can come together. Faculty Directory Online Directory of all full time faculty. The directory is organized by academic unit. This directory replaces the paper faculty directory published by the Office of the Provost. This change was made in order to be a better steward of our human, natural, and financial resources. The new online directory has more information than the old print directory, is current and is designed for easy navigation. Faculty Handbook The Baylor University Faculty Handbook is intended to acquaint you with Baylor University and to help facilitate your work as a faculty member at Baylor. It provides information of importance to faculty members and describes, in general terms, some of the operational procedures and employment guidelines that apply to faculty. Faculty Mentors At Baylor, the critical role faculty play in the lives of students is a hallmark of our institution. By formalizing these key relationships through the role of Faculty Mentor, we hope the Student Success Collaborative can support these faculty as they to continue to promote student success. Academic advisors are firmly committed to students connecting to faculty mentors across disciplines. This list is aimed to help advisors and students know which faculty members are eager to meet with students interested in their academic program(s). Faculty Ombudsperson At Baylor the Ombudsperson for Faculty is a designated neutral who provides confidential and informal assistance for resolving disputes arising between faculty members or between a faculty member and the administration, especially those disputes that are not being addressed by established university procedures. Faculty Senate Representatives of the faculty at Baylor that exchange information and provide a forum for the expression and exchange of ideas and concerns. Family Weekend A tradition at Baylor since 1960, Family Weekend strives to help families of Baylor students become better acquainted with the University and spend time with their children. Federal Compliance & Student Consumer Information This webpage provides a single collecting point for links to information about Baylor University on a variety of subjects which may be helpful to prospective students, their families, high school counselors and coaches, as well as prospective employees, current students and current employees. This information is presented to comply with the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008. Film and Digital Media Courses in the Telecommunication Division are designed to prepare students for a variety of careers in radio, television, cable, and allied fields, and for careers in which knowledge of and skills in electronic and film communication are an integral part of professional activity. Finance, Insurance and Real Estate The Department of Finance, Insurance and Real Estate offers four undergraduate majors in a Bachelors of Administration (BBA) degree program. Financial Aid The SFS team is here to help you navigate the process of paying for your Baylor education. This includes everything from applying for aid (including grants and scholarships) and paying your bill, to preparing for your financial life post-Baylor. Financial Aid Award Guide A higher education is a very important investment in your future. The Baylor Student Financial Aid Office is delighted you have chosen to attend our institution to achieve your higher education goals. We know your time here will be filled with many rewarding experiences. We have a committed team of professional individuals who are eager to assist and help you understand the process. Timely delivery of your financial assistance requires effective communication and teamwork. We encourage you to read the information provided in this guide as it is designed to help you navigate through the process and better understand your rights and responsibilities as a financial aid recipient. Financial Services Office The purpose of the Financial Services Office is to oversee the timely and accurate recording and reporting of all financial transactions of the University and the collection and custody of all institutional funds. Financial Systems & Reporting Financial Systems & Reporting supports optimum utilization of the University's financial systems and provide timely and relevant financial information and reports. Fine Arts Living Learning Center In the Fall of 2010, Baylor University will officially launch the Fine Arts Living-Learning Center through the collaboration of Campus Living and Learning and faculty members from the Departments of Art, Theatre Arts, the Division of Film and Digital Media in the Department of Communication Studies, and the School of Music. While collaborative artistic projects are integral within each of these academic unit, students in the Fine Arts Living-Learning Center (FA-LLC) will interact with peers and faculty across multiple artistic disciplines. Living-learning centers at Baylor provide resources for community building, faculty interaction, and enhanced learning opportunities for students. First in Line First in Line provides resources to first generation college students to support student success at Baylor and beyond. Will you be the first in your family to earn a college degree? Baylor University is pleased to welcome you as the first, or among the first in your family to attend college. Being a first-generation college student is a proud accomplishment. Baylor recognizes that you will face unique experiences as you begin this exciting journey and we look forward to supporting you! Fitness & Nutrition Fitness and Nutrition within the Wellness Department is dedicated to providing programs and services in support of physically healthy lifestyles through group exercise classes, personal training, nutritional consults and services, and special events. Fling Baylor women gather every spring for two days that allow all alumnae to rekindle friendships and recollect their time at Baylor while attending enriching programs and visiting Baylor campus. Foster Campus Dedication Baylor University dedicates the Paul L. Foster Campus for Business and Innovation with heartfelt thanks for God’s blessings on Baylor and for the strong partnerships with alumni and friends who have invested in our mission. French The home page for the French language department. Faculty/Staff homepages starting with 'F': Fry,Cindy Baylor Faculty and Staff: Update your homepage address or learn more about your homepage and privacy settings. Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678