Skip to main content University of Washington Research Contact Us About Office of Research Announcements UW Home Quick Links MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Plan/Propose Overview Develop Hypothesis/Question Select Funding Source Conduct Literature Search Sponsor Requirements Recruit Team Budget Facilities and Resources Write Proposal Submit Proposal Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Setup Setup Overview Sponsor Requirements Facilities and Resources Financials Subawards Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Records and Documentation Methods Collaborations Data Collection Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Manage Manage Overview Financials Compliance Requirements (Non-Financial) Facilities and Resources Collect Data Analyze Data Subawards Award Changes Reporting Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Closeout Closeout Overview Financials Subawards Equipment and Materials Reporting Dissemination of Results Data Sharing Records Retention Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Resources Support Offices Human Subjects Division Office of Animal Welfare Office of Research Central Office of Research Information Services Office of Sponsored Programs Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory Washington National Primate Research Center Browse Forms and Templates Policies, Procedures and Guidance Announcements Glossary FAQs Popular Resources Funding Opportunities Grants Information Memorandum (GIMs) Institutional Facts and Rates Research Stats & Rankings New to UW Research UWFT for the Research Community Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Collaboration Connect to Expertise Find Research Expertise Research Centers and Institutes Resources for Collaboration Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources Establish a Research Center or Institute Shared Research Facilities and Resources Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools Compliance Compliance Overview Compliance Training Training Overview Research Training Overview Collaborative for Research Education Required Research Training Research Administration Learning HSD Training and Education MyResearch Training Transcript UW Research Menu MyResearch Project Lifecycle Plan/Propose Setup Manage Closeout Resources Collaboration Compliance Training Home UW Research Announcements Update: Partial Federal Government Shutdown February 15, 2019 Update: Partial Federal Government Shutdown Menu Home Annual Performance Evaluation Policy and Process Attendance Policy Bridge Funding Program Policy Budget/Position Control Policy and Procedure Business Attire Policy Emergency Contact Card Policy Exchange Calendar System Policy Gift Policy Instructions for Receiving Items Merit Increase Policy Non-Discrimination and Sexual Harassment Policy Relocation Policy Telework Policy (ORC) Update 2.15.19: Another Shutdown Averted Congress has passed, and the President has signed, a spending bill. All federal agencies are now funded for the remainder of this federal fiscal year – through September 30, 2019. Update 1.31.19: Post Shutdown Guidance National Science Foundation (NSF) NSF published Post Shutdown guidance on Grant and Cooperative Agreement-Related Policy and Systems Issues Following the Resumption of Operations at the National Science Foundation. Highlights: Implementation of the PAPPG 19 has been delayed until 2.25.19. Existing Solicitations or Dear Colleague Letter deadlines that were extended on 1.25.19 and are listed on NSF’s Resumption of Operations at NSF now have revised deadlines on that page. All proposals, reports, and no-cost extension requests submitted during the lapse in funding will be processed as NSF can practically do so. Award funding decisions-NSF will not be able to meet their customer service standard of six months of the deadline or target date, or receipt date – whichever is later. Grants & cooperative agreement issuance will occur as early as practical Processing Continuing Grant Increment funding not processed during the lapse will be prioritized. Award payments and the ability to draw down funds from NSF was reinstated on 1.28.19. National Park Services Performance under NPS financial assistance agreements is to continue/resume in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement. Contact the NPS Financial Assistance Awarding Officer listed in the financial assistance agreement if you have questions. Announcement updated 2.15.19 Partial Shutdown Lifted until Feb. 15, 2019 The White House and Congress have reached a short-term three week deal to reopen affected agencies while continuing to negotiate. Once this short term spending bill is passed, we expect to receive further communications from federal sponsors on next steps related to grant funding, such as proposal review, award issuance and other actions requiring sponsor approval. Please continue to check MRAM for updated information. Shutdown Update 1.18.19: Proposal & Award Impacts As we continue to closely monitor the partial federal government shutdown, OSP continues to review and submit proposals to affected agencies. Included here are a few key process details and information on impacted federal Proposals and Awards. Please continue to share any communication for proposals and awards related to the shutdown with osp@uw.edu. Proposal Submissions Awaiting Agency Review 481 proposals requesting $241,739,864 in proposed research funding are awaiting affected agency review. Proposals Submitted After Shutdown Began 40 of the proposals with a total of $12,934,133 that are awaiting agency review were submitted after the shutdown began. Of those proposals submitted since the shutdown, 6 are to pass through entities (flow through funding from affected agencies) totaling $1,073,408. Proposals Impacted: Missing Letters of Support If a proposal is incomplete because it is missing a Letter of Support (LOS) from a federal employee at an affected agency, address this within the proposal itself. Also please be sure to address this in the Campus Comments section of the eGC1. OSP will not consider the proposal incomplete and will proceed with sponsor submission. Award Impacts Can I continue to work on the project? At this time, UW projects funded by affected agencies can continue work unless: a notice from the agency or sponsor was received to halt the work. agency resources (e.g. personnel, data, facilities) are fundamental to the progress of the project. Federal Contracts & E-Verify Individuals who will be paid on a federal contract subject to E-Verify cannot participate on the project if the E-Verify process is not complete. Affected Awards The UW has over 1500 active awards totaling $453,557,022 (including pass thru/flow through funding) , a portion of which we either cannot draw down or invoice for incurred expenditures, or if we can, we cannot receive reimbursement. Affected Awards by Agency: Bureau of Land Management (BLM) – 15 Bureau of Reclamation – 5 Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) – 4 Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) – 1 Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) – 6 Federal Transit Administration (FTA) – 3 National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) – 283 National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) – 2 National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) – 1 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) – 1 National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) – 2 National Institute of Justice (NIJ) – 3 Nation Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – 10 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) – 156 National Park Service (NPS)– 19 National Science Foundation (NSF) – 858 United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) – 1 US Department of Agriculture (USDA) – 19 US Department of Commerce – 2 US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) – 5 US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) – 1 US Department of Justice (DOJ) – 1 US Department of State – 3 US Department of the Interior – 2 US Department of Transportation (USDOT) – 10 US Forest Service (USFS)– 70 US Geological Survey (USGS) – 20 No-Cost Extension Requests to Affected Agencies No-cost extensions to affected agencies requiring agency approval are on HOLD awaiting agency review. These will be delayed until affected agencies can resume their work and get up to speed on their backlog. Please abide by the current end date. 12.28.18: Guidance from Some Affected Agencies We have received more guidance from some agencies during the partial lapse in federal funding: Bureau of Land Management, Forest Services, NASA, the National Park Services, National Science Foundation, the Office of Justice Programs, and USDA ezFedGrants. General Guidance Research NOT Dependent on Agency Resources Unless directed otherwise by awarding agency: If the research is not accessing agency locations, resources, data, personnel, or additional funding, the work should continue as long as you have available award funding. Performance beyond the time period or amounts covered by the award is not allowed. Exceeding allotted award amounts is not recommended, may not be reimbursed by the sponsor, and will fall to the department to resolve any potential budget deficit. Agency Resource Dependent Research If the research DOES depend on accessing agency locations, resources, data, personnel, or additional funding, the work must cease until appropriations have been reinstated and further notice from the agency sponsor. Specific agency info has been updated in the list of Affected Agencies below. The Office of Research is closely monitoring the Government Shutdown. While parts of the federal government (such as DHHS) are fully funded for the entire Fiscal Year ’19, other agencies are not. Information in this guidance applies only to those agencies affected by the partial shutdown, NIH for example, should not be affected. We will keep you posted via MRAM and this Announcement as we learn more. During a Shutdown Affected federal agency operations cease during a shutdown. These federal agencies may temporarily stop making payments. Expect a lack of federal communications related to affected agency proposals and awards. OSP will continue with business as usual within any constraints created by unavailable sponsor systems and staff. OSP’s goal is to process items received to the extent possible. Affected U.S. Departments & Agencies: The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has published agency contingency plans along with FAQs and Special Instructions for Agencies Affected. Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) US Forest Services (USFS): If funds are already obligated you can continue work until further notice from USFS New awards will not be issued FS oversight, support, input etc. is not available Payment requests can’t be submitted or approved Review the Lapse in Appropriations FAQs posted on the agency contingency plan website USDA ezFEDGrants System ezFED Grants remains available, however, there is no system support until funding is reinstated. If you have an issue with ezFedGrants, email: ezFedGrants@cfo.usda.gov or use the “Contact USDA” feature in the application. ezFedGrants staff will respond when operations resume. Other USDA Agencies Commerce, Justice, and Science National Science Foundation (NSF): Information About the Government Shutdown for NSF Proposers and Grantees Will continue to accept proposals in accordance with published deadlines Proposals will not be processed until normal operations resume No new funding opportunities will be issued No new grants or cooperative agreements will be awarded Awardees may continue performance under their NSF awards to extent funds are available and within the awarded period of performance No payments will be made Grantee-approved no-cost extensions (i.e. notification in Fastlane) can be processed NSF-approved no-cost extension will NOT be processed National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA): Research dependent on NASA resources/facilities etc.: Cease work, preserve agency resources, take all actions necessary to reduce costs during the shutdown. Research that doesn’t require access to NASA resources: Continue work as long as there is available funding Special Condition 1260.53 Incremental Funding (for awards subject to 14 CFR Part 1260) or Term and Condition 1800.921 Incremental Funding (for awards subject to 2 CFR Part 1800) of your grant or cooperative agreement specifies the total amount of funding that has been allotted to your grant or cooperative agreement. for Future Investigators in NASA Earth and Space Science and Technology (FINESST). 1.25.19: The proposal due date for Future Investigators in NASA Earth and Space Science and Technology (FINESST) has been changed from February 1, 2019 to TBD. A new due date will be…announced via amendment after the government returns. Some additional time is expected to be provided. NOTE: the due date shown in NSPIRES is NOT a proposal due date; NSPIRES requires a specific date rather than ‘TBD’. Office of Justice Programs: OJP staff are available to assist grantees, stakeholders, and the public until 5:00 p.m. (EST) on Friday, January 18, 2019. OJP systems and services will be available. The Grants Payment Request System (GPRS) can accept grant payment requests, however, payment requests received after 12.26.18 will not be processed until those Department staff return. Should the lapse in appropriations last beyond 3.01.19, OJP will contact awardees with further guidance. Other Commerce Bureaus & Agencies and DOJ Agencies Homeland Security Homeland Security Operational Components Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Transportation Administrations HUD Offices Interior and Environment Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Bureau of Land Management (BLM) BLM will notify if work on a project should cease during the shutdown. Projects that are continuing may experience delays in processing payments . Fish & Wildlife (FWS) National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) National Park Services If you are uncertain whether performance should continue, cease work until you receive clarification from Andrew Lubner at (303) 888-4412, or until further written communication from a NPS Financial Assistance Agreements Officer is received. DOI Bureaus & Offices State, Foreign Operations State Dept. Bureaus and Offices Affected Sponsor Applications Use the sponsor’s posted sponsor deadlines to calculate your GIM 19 deadline. Grants.gov: We expect Grants.gov will be up and that proposals can be submitted, but they will not be forwarded to affected federal sponsor agencies. These applications will be in a holding pattern in Grants.gov. Other: We will provide details on affected sponsor systems used for proposal submission, as they become known. If a federal sponsor system has been shut down, applications will be submitted once these systems are back online. If the sponsor has not issued new due dates, OSP will require that the RTS=YES application be back in OSP no less than three business days from the sponsor due date the PI indicates on the eGC1. Awards Federal awards from affected agencies will not be issued during the federal shutdown. Awards that have already reached OSP prior to a shutdown will be processed and sent to GCA. Awards from affected agencies that have been issued a UW budget number can begin or continue work unless notification is received from the sponsor. Cooperative agreements could be affected if federal participation is required, but not available. Once affected agency systems are back online, OSP will resume processing affected awards after all outstanding current proposals are submitted Contracts In the unlikely event a sponsor sends a stop-work order, OSP will immediately notify the PI and eGC1 Admin Contact and upload the order in SAGE. If you receive a stop-work order, send to osp@uw.edu. Budget Extensions OSP will review Budget Extension requests and put them on hold until affected sponsor notification/approval processes are available. Other Post Submission/Post Award Requests For other requests not yet in OSP, please wait until those affected federal sponsor systems and staffing are available and use the standard process. Please forward any communications received related to a shutdown and your federal awards to osp@uw.edu. Announcement updated 2.15.19 Featured Research Visit UW Today-Research to see what research news is being featured. Stay Updated Manage Subscriptions University of Washington Office of Research Tools MyResearch SAGE Zipline More Tools OR Support Offices Human Subjects Division (HSD) Office of Animal Welfare (OAW) Office of Research (OR) Office of Research Information Services (ORIS) Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP) OR Research Units Applied Physics Laboratory (APL-UW) WA National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC) Research Partner Offices CoMotion Corporate and Foundation Relations (CFR) Enivronmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Grant and Contract Accounting (GCA) Institute of Translational Health Sciences (ITHS) Management Accounting and Analysis (MAA) Post Award Fiscal Compliance (PAFC) Collaboration Research Expertise Centers and Institutes Interdisciplinary Resources Guidance for NIH Institutional Training Grants Collaborative Proposal Development Resources About Research Fact Sheet Research Annual Report Stats and Rankings Honors and Awards Office of Research Contact Us Manage Subscriptions Gerberding Hall G80 Box 351202 Seattle, WA 98195 Accessibility Jobs Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA