COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Mechanical Engineering In This Section Home Advising Faculty & Staff Contact Us Laboratories Programs Organizations Mechanical Engineering Industrial Advisory Board Vision and Mission Vision Undergraduate degree Graduate degrees Mechanical Engineering Here at Wichita State University, the Mechanical Engineering Department is committed to experience-based instruction and research. Our students have the opportunity to engage in research with our faculty and community even as an undergraduate student. Mechanical engineering is a broad based degree, used for design and analysis in such industries as manufacturing, aircraft and automotive, as well as consumer products and building equipment. In these jobs, mechanical engineers design products, machines and develop processes for manufacturing. Our faculty have been awarded over $3 million dollars in the last 3 years in research grant money, with research in robotics, nano, composites, sustainability, and thermodesign. Our undergraduate program in Mechanical Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org. This means your degree in Mechanical Engineering has met rigorous benchmarks and goals. We also offers two graduate degree programs -- a Master's (M.S.) in Mechanical Engineering, and a Doctorate (Ph.D.) in Mechanical Engineering. As a student at Wichita State University, you can get involved with such organizations as Shocker Racing; both Formula SAE and Mini Baja SAE, as well as the American Society for Mechanical Engineers (ASME). See the link 'In this Section' for a list of all organizations. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©