Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Inside Iowa State for faculty and staff Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Submit News Announcements Archives Inside Update Inside Iowa State Faculty Senate Updates P&S Council Updates Regents Updates Calendar Employee Resources About Us Honors and awards Learning communities program announces annual award recipients May 26, 2022 Congratulations to these recipients of ISU's learning communities program's 2022 awards: Learning Community Advocate: Mack Shelley, statistics and political science Learning Community Champion: Brenna Dixon, English Learning Community Collaborator: Denise Williams-Klotz, multicultural student affairs Early Achievement in Learning Community Coordination: Nicole Prentice and Mackenzie Schwartz, chemical engineering Equity Award: LeQuetia Ancar, multicultural student success and student services, College of Engineering Learning Community Partner (department or office): Office of new student programs Learning Community Scholarship (individual or team that significantly contributed to the scholarship of LCs): Learning Communities Tuition Revenue Research Team (KB Gwebu, residence department; Jonathan Compton, enrollment research and analytics; Kyle Holtman and Jen Leptien, learning communities; Aurelia Kollasch, University of Lynchburg; Matt Pistilli, division of student affairs assessment and research; and Mack Shelley, political science and statistics Olson honored for supporting Guard employee May 25, 2022 Chad Olson, senior associate director in the office of student financial aid, has received the Patriot Award from the Employer Support of Guard and Reserve program, U.S. Department of Defense. The award honors the efforts made to support citizen warriors through a wide range of measures including flexible schedules, time off prior to and after deployment, extending care to family members and granting leaves of absence, if needed. Olson's nominator was financial aid advisor Seth Miller, a 1st Lieutenant in the National Guard. Tylka awarded for awareness campaign among soybean farmers May 25, 2022 Greg Tylka, Morrill Professor of plant pathology and microbiology and director of the Iowa Soybean Research Center, was part of a team awarded a Silver Anvil Award in issues management from the Public Relations Society of America in May. The Silver Anvil Awards celebrate the best strategic public relations campaigns of the year and outstanding organizational excellence. Tylka and other leaders of the SCN Coalition, a public-private partnership across 28 states and Ontario, Canada, were honored for efforts to raise farmer awareness of soybean cyst nematode (SCN), the top yield-reducing pest in U.S. soybean fields. The coalition's public relations campaign resulted in up to 18% more farmers actively managing SCN, at a savings estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars annually. Fox in France this fall as Fulbright-Tocqueville chair May 25, 2022 Rodney Fox, Anson Marston Distinguished Professor in chemical and biological engineering and Hershel B. Whitney Professor, Global Initiatives, will spend the fall 2022 semester as a visiting professor in France after being selected for a Fulbright-Tocqueville Distinguished Chair Award. The program, part of the Fulbright Franco-American Commission for Educational Exchange, provides opportunities for scholars to teach and conduct research abroad, strengthening colloborative ties. Fox's host institution will be CentraleSupélec, a graduate engineering school in Gif-sur-Yvette that's part of Paris-Saclay University. Wellik recognized for leadership in the industry May 09, 2022 Kathy Wellik, director of transportation services, received the first President's Choice Award from Agile Fleet, Iowa State's fleet reservation system vendor. The special recognition is for a fleet professional who has demonstrated a lifelong commitment to the industry. Transportation services nationally ranked among public fleets May 09, 2022 Transportation services is in the #15 spot in NAFA's (National Association of Fleet Administrators) 100 Best Fleets for 2022, up from #53 in 2021. The award recognizes performance improvement and innovation among public vehicle fleet services, and assesses 12 criteria for fleet excellence: accountability, use of technology and information, collaboration, creativity, celebration, evidence of a high trust culture, performance recognition, "doing it right the first time," quick turnaround, competitive pricing, staff development and resources stewardship. Lesley Lackore receives national award May 06, 2022 Lesley Lackore, card services manager in procurement services, received the 2022 Contributor of the Year award from the National Association of Purchasing Card Professionals, an association for the commercial payments industry. The award recognizes stand-out contributions to the association and the industry. Lackore has chaired the association's higher education advisory team for a decade, presented on a range of topics at conferences and moderated roundtable discussions at conferences multiple times. Mike Green receives sports information awards May 03, 2022 Mike Green, who for the last nine years served as head of the athletics communications office, will receive 25-year and lifetime achievement awards in June from the College Sports Information Directors of America. In April, Green moved from the communications team to take over as director of traditions in the department's student-athlete and letterwinner engagement office. Printing services captures four top production awards April 22, 2022 Printing services won four awards in the Association of College and University Printers' (ACUP+) 2022 production awards. They are: Gold: Digital production (Large Shop), Multiple Piece (ISU Cyber Guide) Gold: Digital production (Large Shop), Multiple Page (Octagon Center for the Arts booklet) Gold: Offset production: Multiple Page ("Your Land" magazine for landscape architecture) Platinum: Offset production, Multiple Piece ("Spend Smart, Eat Smart" campaign literature) Duwe selected for NSF CAREER award April 13, 2022 Henry Duwe, assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering, has been selected for a 2022 National Science Foundation (NSF) Faculty Early Career Development Program (CAREER) award for his project "Toward Dependable Intelligent Computing on Batteryless Intermittent Devices." CAREER awards are the NSF’s most prestigious awards given to early-career faculty. The support aims to build a firm foundation for leadership in integrating research and education. Duwe will receive over $500,000 to develop and execute his project over the next five years. Three faculty honored by American Phytopathological Society April 06, 2022 The American Phytopathological Society (APS) recognized three ISU plant pathology and microbiology faculty for their contributions and impacts in research, teaching and extension. Professor Steven Whitham was named an APS fellow, one of 10 to receive the honor this year. APS members are recognized with the fellow distinction for their significant contributions in research, teaching, administration, professional and public service and/or extension and outreach. Professor Leonor Leandro received the APS Excellence in Teaching award, and associate professor Daren Mueller received the APS Excellence in Extension award. 2021 CYtation Award winners honored April 04, 2022 Forty-one employees -- 16 individuals and four teams -- received the Professional & Scientific Council CYtation Award for their outstanding work and contributions in 2021, and were honored at a March 24 ceremony. The CYtation Awards recognize P&S employees, particularly those who might not otherwise receive public recognition, who go above and beyond the call of duty, do something extraordinarily well, and act in such a way as to make a real difference in the institution. Plummer elected National Academies of Practice fellow March 23, 2022 Dr. Paul Plummer, the Anderson Chair in Veterinary Medicine and professor of veterinary diagnostic and production animal medicine, has been elected to the National Academies of Practice (NAP) as a distinguished veterinary science fellow. A faculty member at Iowa State since 2010, Plummer is currently the executive director of the National Institute of Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Education. The Iowa State-based national institute seeks to improve the understanding of antimicrobial resistance to reduce its societal impact. Founded in 1981, NAP is an interprofessional, nonprofit organization whose members represent a range of health care professions and are willing to serve as distinguished advisors to health care policymakers in Congress and elsewhere. Wongpiromsarn receives CAREER award from NSF January 10, 2022 Nok Wongpiromsarn, assistant professor in computer science, earned a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). The $502,000 award will support her research in learning-enabled autonomous systems through 2027. The CAREER award is the NSF's most prestigious award in support of early-career faculty. ← View Archive Inside headlines Summer projects on (or near) your corner 'Roll out the cardinal carpet,' as orientation returns in full Welcome Senior VP Cain will retire this fall Leaders take strategic plans, building proposal to regents next week Support grows for responding to student well-being needs Training available as New Quizzes set to launch in Canvas Changes shared for COVID-19 data and information Announcements EH&S 50th anniversary open house is June 10 COVID-19: By the numbers May 30 is university holiday Ames Lab innovation is focus of ISU's state fair exhibit Flags temporarily removed from central campus pole Roundtable assists employees who supervise volunteers WorkFlex application window opens June 6 COACHE faculty survey data available online Creamery adds ice cream sandwiches Extension, Iowa Public Radio collaborate on gardening podcast College Creek cleanup is June 18 View All › Receptions and open houses Receptions Dennis Peterson, Celebration of Life, May 29 View All › Retirements and farewells Retirements Lynn Laws, May 31 View All › Arts and events Anniversary flavor A new ice cream choice at the ISU Creamery, "Materials Masterpiece," commemorates Ames Laboratory's 75th anniversary. Return to in-person events brings summer visitors Students, faculty and staff again will share campus this summer with visitors attending camps, conferences, competitions and other gatherings. Here's a list of who's coming. Around campus Ames Lab celebrates 75 years of materials and energy solutions Culturally tailored dietary education proves promising Taxes can tip the scale for startups near state lines Inside tools Print this edition RSS | Twitter Strategic Relations and Communications Inside Iowa State 2420 Lincoln Way Suite 201 Ames, Iowa 50014-8340 inside@iastate.edu 515-294-7958 phone @InsideIowaState Social Media Directory Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...