Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Competencies Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Competencies University Honors Program experiences fall within one of five competencies: community engagement, creativity, global studies, leadership, and research. Individuals engaged in the community, exploring cultures domestically and internationally, honing their leadership skills and creating new knowledge are gaining the skills and experiences necessary to become innovators who will change the world. Through engagement in experiences that enhance students' understanding of the competencies, they will reflect upon their growth and learning. As a result, they will refine their passions and determine how they will use their gifts and talents to make a difference in the world. To learn more about each competency, click its name to be taken to its page. Community Engagement During your time at UC, you will engage with specific groups of people and communities —defined by interest, affiliation or geographic location. When you choose communities where you will actively participate, you are embarking on a vital component of the university experience that will continue throughout life. You will develop a stronger sense of self by remaining informed of social issues and contributing to a collective vision for the common good. Creativity Creativity empowers you to view the world with your imagination. By exploring current or historical thoughts or methods, you can develop tools or perspectives to see opportunities to apply new thoughts. You may also embark upon something truly innovative in concept or production. The value of your creative work also depends upon your articulation of its effectiveness and impact in observing the world, identifying problems, or developing solutions. Global Studies As the world becomes more internationally connected, it is important to engage across various cultures with an appreciation for multiple perspectives and identities. You will gain a stronger understanding of your own background and develop a sense of respect and empathy for others. As a result, you will be better prepared to address global issues and contribute to the improvement of international understanding. Leadership As a leader, you will engage in a relational process that involves creating a shared vision, developing goals, and motivating individuals or groups towards achievement. You will increase your awareness of personal strengths and areas for growth while developing the skills necessary to establish collaborative relationships. You will learn to lead with integrity and seek opportunities to improve society. Research Research can take many forms and spans every discipline, but it starts with identifying a question, idea, theory, problem, or hypothesis. You will learn how to design questions, test multiple methods to seek answers, share what you have learned, and articulate possible implications. Your research should expand knowledge, improve understanding, and contribute to a community of scholars. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top