Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller Center for International Business Education and Research CIBER Events Home » Centers & Initiatives » Center for International Business Education and Research » Events » CIBER Events Menu Center for International Business Education and Research CIBER Events Projects Research Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News History of the Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forums Since its founding in 1993, Georgia Tech CIBER has one- to-two day   annual special conference for operational business decision makers designed to provide an update and a forecasting outlook on salient  technological, economic, business, and strategic developments focused on a country, region or family of technologies.    This well-established outreach event is designed to promote U.S. international competitiveness by identifying market opportunities, defining best strategies of market penetration and expansion, overcoming regulatory and cultural obstacles.  Attendance at this annual outreach event has oscillated between 80 and 170 attendees.  The event is usually followed by a reception for participants at end of forum and awards are made to distinguished exports or innovators.  The event benefits from the support of economic development agencies and corporate sponsors. Global Business Forums from 1993 to 2021 The First Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum,  “NAFTA: Its Evolution and Effects—Market Opportunities of U.S. Firms,” November 21, 1994. The Second Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum,  “ The Chinese Economic Area: Emergence of the Market of the Twenty-first Century,” October 30, 1995. The Third Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “The Southern Cone of Latin America: Big Emerging Market Opportunities & Mercosur/Mercosul,” February 20, 1997. The Fourth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Completing in the Japanese Technology Market in the Twenty-First Century,” October 29, 1998. The Fifth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “China at the Turn of the Century: Opportunities for U.S. Firms,” April 23, 1999. The Sixth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Mercosur and the Emerging Markets of the Southern Latin American Cone,” March 14, 2000. The Seventh Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Competing in the Japanese Technology Market in the Twenty First Century,”  March 14, 2001. The Eighth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “China as a WTO Member:  Opportunities and Challenges for U.S. Firms,”  April 10, 2002. The Ninth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “India’s Emerging Markets:  Opportunities and Strategies for U.S. Firms,” April 9, 2003. The Tenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Brazil and Its Markets:  Opportunities for U.S. Firm in the FTAA Era,” April 21, 2004. The Eleventh Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Doing Business in Korean:  Gateway to Northeast Asia,” April 27, 2005. The Twelfth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “The Central American Free Trade Agreement:  Implications for Regional Integration in the Americas and Business Opportunities for U.S.-Based Firms,” April 5, 2006. The Thirteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Opportunities for U.S.-based Firms in China: Sustainable Business Growth Through Innovation—China’s Creative Imperative,” April 13, 2007. The Fourteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Post-Olympic China-Business Opportunities and Challenges for U.S.-Based Firms,” April 23, 2008. The Fifteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Brazil and its Markets:  Opportunities and Strategies for U.S.-based Firms in a Restructuring World,” April 8, 2009. The Sixteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Navigating Global Markets in Times of Uncertainty:  Best Practices for Success,” April 14, 2010. The Seventeenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Understanding the Markets of the Indian Subcontinent: I,” June 21, 2011. The Eighteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum,  “Technology Markets of India for U.S.-Based Firms: II,”   June 21, 2011.  The Nineteenth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Life Sciences, Innovation and R&D, IT and New Media in South Asia,”  September 11-12, 2013. (With Awards for Best Innovators). The Twentieth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Export Markets of India:  III,” in conjunction with the Fifth Annual USA India Business Summit, September 17-18, 20214.  (With Awards for Leading Entrepreneurs). The Twenty First Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Global Disruptions and Megatrends in Innovation and R&D: India, Israel, Japan,” in conjunction with the Sixth Annual USA India Business Summit, October 19-20, 2015.  The Twenty Second Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “New Technology Clusters:  Global Hotbeds for Local Opportunities,” in conjunction with the Seventh Annual USA India Business Summit, October 13-14, 2016.  (Gala with Awards ceremony). The Twenty Third Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Global Advanced Industries:  Creating Local Opportunities, Part I,” September 20, 2017. The Twenty Fourth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Engage, Leverage and Accelerate:  Business-to-Business Global Connections and Innovations,” August 28-29, 2018. The Twenty Fifth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Global Advanced Industries:  Creating Local Opportunities, Part II, “ August 27-28, 2019. The Twenty Sixth Annual Georgia Tech Global Business Forum, “Global Advanced Industries:  Accelerating Local Opportunities, A Virtual Summit,” October 26-27, 2020. Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures