Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Message From the Chairperson Department Values Contact Job Openings Opportunities Giving to EES News & Notes Resource Guide for Students and Staff People Undergraduate Overview Majors Minors Courses Senior Thesis & Departmental Honors Study Abroad Career and Professional Development Career Resources Science Education Conferences and Organizations Fulfilling the Core Requirements Graduate Overview Ph.D. Master of Science Dual Degree Program, M.S./M.B.A. Courses Master of Science in Teaching Research Opportunities Cooperative University Program Weston Observatory Frequently Asked Questions Research Overview Facilities Weston Observatory Seminar Series Overview Past Seminar Series Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Earth and Environmental Sceinces Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Departments Home People Faculty directory Ethan Baxter Earth and Environmental Sciences Faculty Ethan Baxter Professor Department Chair Next Ethan Baxter Ph.D. Contact Devlin Hall 325 Telephone: 617-552-1124 Email: ethan.baxter@bc.edu Education B.S., Yale University Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley Courses Fall 2020: Isotope Geochemistry and Geochronology (EESC 5140) Spring 2021: Building a Habitable Planet (EESC 1701) Research Interests Isotope Geochemistry and Geochronology, Tectonics and Metamorphism, Earth History Personal Website Curriculum Vitae Profile I am a geochemist interested in the broad processes occurring within and between the Earth’s crust, mantle, and surface. An interest in unraveling the history of the Earth, as well as predicting certain aspects of its future, is at the heart of much of the research going on in my group. By studying the vast geological record, we interpret the chemistry of diverse Earth materials (rocks, minerals, sediments, and more) to elucidate the timescales, rates, and mechanisms of broad and interdependent geological processes such as tectonics, metamorphism, subduction, global geochemical cycles, lithosphere-hydrosphere-atmosphere interactions. My research brings together approaches including isotope geochemistry, geochronology, field geology, petrology & mineralogy, thermodynamics, and numerical modeling. My research has taken my students and me to field areas including Austria, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Scotland, the Greek Isles, China, Ontario, California, and throughout New England. CURRENT GRADUATE STUDENTS AND PROJECTS Alex Leich: Geochronology and petrogenesis of REE ore mineralization in Quebec RECENT M.S. ALUMNI AND PROJECTS Thomas Farrell: Dating tectonic evolution of the Iberian Peninsula using microstructures preserved in garnet (2019) Anna Gerrits: Assessing redox change due to subduction zone dehydration using Fe-isotope and chemical zonation in garnet (2018) Jamie Kendall: Sm/Nd garnet geochronology and pressure-temperature paths of eclogites from Syros, Greece: Implications for subduction zone processes and water loss from the subducting slab (2016) RECENT PUBLICATIONS ( * = Baxter student coauthor; † = TIMS Facility user/collaborator) †Sjöqvist, A.S.L., Zack, T., †Honn, D.K., Baxter, E.F., (2020) Modification of a rare-earth element deposit by low-temperature partial melting during metamorphic overprinting: Norra Kärr alkaline complex, southern Sweden. Chemical Geology, 545, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chemgeo.2020.119640 *†Gerrits, A.R., Inglis, E., *†Starr, P.G., Dragovic, B., Baxter, E.F., Burton, K. (2019) Release of oxidizing fluids in subduction zones recorded by iron isotope zonation in garnet. Nature Geoscience. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-019-0471-y *Maneiro, K.E., Baxter, E.F., Samson, S.D., Marschall, H.R., Heitpas, J., (2019) Detrital garnet geochronology: Application in tributaries of the French Broad River, Southern Appalachian Mountains, USA. Geology, 47, https://doi.org/10.1130/G46840.1 Baxter, E.F., Caddick, M.J., Dragovic, B. (2017). Garnet: A Rock Forming Mineral Petrochronometer. Reviews in Mineralogy & Geochemistry, 83, p. 469-533. *†Dragovic, B., Baxter E.F., Caddick,M.J. (2015) Pulsed garnet growth and dehydration at blueschist facies conditions, Sifnos, Greece. Earth & Planetary Science Letters, 413, p.111-122. Next Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the EES Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College