<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Academic Experience Academic Experience Curriculum Faculty & Research The Field Method A Global Experience The HBS Case Method Joint Degree Programs The Section Experience → Academic Experience Academic Experience Curriculum Faculty & Research The Field Method A Global Experience The HBS Case Method Joint Degree Programs The Section Experience We challenge you to think differently. Curriculum Through the rich case- and experience-based curriculum at Harvard Business School, students build deep general management and leadership skills, setting the foundation for lifelong impact on how they lead. The case method brings leadership to life. Students step into the shoes of case protagonists, real business leaders, and learn to make tough decisions as they are challenged by the diverse perspectives of classmates. Students then apply this learning in experiential field programs and independent studies to practice what it means to become a leader who makes a difference in the world. Each of these learning platforms contribute to a truly global experience, from global cases and protagonists, to a international classrooms and project-based experiences. Students graduate from HBS not only with increased knowledge but more importantly, with grounding and practice in how to make difficult decisions and what it means to assume leadership in a global environment. Curriculum Through case method classes, FIELD projects, multimedia simulations, and more, you’ll exercise the leadership skills you will practice in business and beyond. The Case Method Perspectives on the Case Method Perspectives on the Case Method Perspectives on the Case Method Perspectives on the Case Method FIELD Into the Field Into the Field Into the Field Into the Field Joint Degree Programs JD/MBA Harvard Law School MBA/DMD Harvard School of Dental Medicine MBA/MPP Harvard Kennedy School MD/MBA Harvard Medical School MS/MBA Engineering Sciences | Harvard School of Engineering & Applied Sciences MS/MBA Biotechnology: Life Sciences | Harvard Graduate School of Arts & Sciences A Global Experience From your peers and case discussions, to our alumni network, Global Research Center footprint, and field-based course offerings, the HBS experience is inherently international. The Section ExperienceThe Section Experience    Sections of 90 students take their first-year classes together, sharing case discussions, experiences, and a classroom. Faculty & Research Celebrating the Harvard Business School Class of 2022 27 May 2022 →More Videos Delivering a Personalized Shopping Experience with AI Re: Jill Avery 17 May 2022 | Cold Call →More Cold Call Podcasts Are Banks the ‘Bad Guys’? Overdraft Fees Are Crushing Low-Income Customers Re: Marco Di Maggio & Emily Williams 18 May 2022 | HBS Working Knowledge →More HBS Working Knowledge Initiatives Initiatives are research-fueled “communities of engagement” where faculty, students, and alumni connect with practitioners in the field to develop insights that drive impact. They provide powerful platforms to address complex, multi-dimensional topics that demand a new managerial mindset. HBS Initiatives cover a range of topics, from sectors of the economy to societal issues that businesses must address in an ever-changing global marketplace. Business & EnvironmentBusiness & Environment Business HistoryBusiness History DigitalDigital EntrepreneurshipEntrepreneurship (Rock Center)(Rock Center) GenderGender Health CareHealth Care LeadershipLeadership Social EnterpriseSocial Enterprise Connect With Us Join our mailing list to learn about admissions events in your area, information about the MBA program, and application updates. Introduce Yourself ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College