Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics People Research & Innovation News Contact Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus MISSION To educate Thinkers, Leaders, and Entrepreneurs by integrating education, research, and innovation in medical technology aligned with Clemson’s land-grant mission. VISION To become a global competitor and national leader in biomedical technology research and innovation by developing a highly-skilled workforce and diversifying our research portfolio for a societal impact to address health disparity. In December 2011, Clemson University inaugurated CUBEInC (Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Center), a new state-of-the-art facility primarily dedicated to biomedical research and accelerated innovation. This strategic upfit and expansion of $16M was funded by the State of South Carolina and private partners. CUBEInC occupies the 4th floor of Building C of the Patewood Medical Campus of the Greenville Health System (GHS). It is strategically located above two floors dedicated to clinical orthopaedics and rehabilitation (sports and total-joint replacements) and one floor dedicated to vascular surgery and clinical imaging. CUBEInC consists of 30,000 sq. ft. of research and education facilities, translational/incubator space, bioimaging research facilities, state-of-the-art surgical-skills facilities, as well as meeting and networking accommodations shared by Clemson scientists and GHS clinicians. CUBEInC, the translational research arm of the Clemson University School of Health Research (CUSHR), provides the essential environment to develop clinically driven technology and address pertinent research questions by facilitating collaboration with healthcare practitioners. The Frank H. Stelling and C. Dayton Riddle Orthopaedic Research and Education Laboratory was endowed for the purpose of conducting clinically relevant research through collaboration. The 2,000 sq. ft. Stelling and Riddle Ortho Lab is the CUBEInC flagship, with fume hoods, benches, state-of-the-art mechanical testing capabilities (Bose and Instron), knee simulator, conference room with video-conference capability, adjacent dedicated workrooms, machine shop, environmental chamber, and offices. The monthly C. Dayton Riddle Seminar Series held at CUBEInC to highlight musculoskeletal translational health research is attended by CUSHR and GHS researchers, postdoctoral fellows, and students. Contacts: Leigh Humphries Administrative Coordinator, CUBEInC lcartee@clemson.edu CUBEInC Home Participants and Collaborators Research Programs Connect with CUBEInC Instagram Facebook Copyright © Clemson University Department of Bioengineering | 301 Rhodes Research Center, Clemson, SC 29634-0905 (864) 656-3051 | Email Us