Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Diversity at the UW Diversity at the UW Menu Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Home Diversity at the UW Explore diversity At the University of Washington, diversity is integral to excellence. We value and honor diverse experiences and perspectives, strive to create welcoming and respectful learning environments, and promote access, opportunity and justice for all. Learning about difference The study of diversity fosters an understanding of cultural traditions, histories and influences. Making change, transforming lives Students, faculty and staff strive to improve the well-being of our communities. World changing research UW faculty conduct research on the benefits of cultural diversity, as well as its challenges. Rickey Hall Leadership Vice President for Minority Affairs & Diversity Rickey Hall is the university diversity officer at the University of Washington. Hall has oversight of the UW’s progress in diversity, as well as programs administered by the Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity. Diversity leadership Resources Future students Learn about programs that prepare K-14 students for college admission. Current students Explore services that support students throughout their Husky Experience. Faculty & staff Discover diversity-related resources for faculty and staff. Alumni & community Find out about community partnerships, engagement opportunities and alumni news. Administrators Access policies and procedures that enhance diversity across campus. UW schools & colleges Explore resources specific to colleges and schools on the Seattle campus. Diversity at UW Bothell Explore diversity resources specific to the UW Bothell campus. Diversity at UW Tacoma Explore diversity resources specific to the UW Tacoma campus. VISIT OUR STORY HUB! Students, faculty and staff across our three campuses are working hard to advance the values of diversity, equity and inclusion at the UW. This site features some of the stories about our community members who are making a difference. EQUITY FOCUS Diversity Blueprint The Blueprint is available for academic and administrative units to use as a framework for guiding the UW toward achieving its stated goals for diversity and inclusion. Diversity Blueprint DACA FAQ Members of the campus community can access information on the rescission of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in a document that outlines Frequently Asked Questions. Read FAQ University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA