Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Student Outcomes Menu Xavier graduates: Changing the world since 1831 98 percent of our students are employed, attending grad school or working in service positions within six months of graduation. See below for outcomes specific to your major. View how this data was collected through our Office of Institutional Research. Class of 2018 Outcomes Available programs All Art Athletics Business Communication Education Health & Medicine Honors Humanities Language & International Affairs Politics Social Impact STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) Sustainability & the Environment Success Rate Top Employers Top Jobs Success Rate Components View Additional Information from our Office of Institutional Research. Employed Continuing Education Serving in the Military or a Volunteer Program Majors in this category Xavier students become graduates, and they use their experiences to be successful in the world. Xavier helped to instill and foster hard work, love of learning, love of others and compassion, all of which are the tools I use on a daily basis to care for my patients. Xavier also taught me that life is more than a sum of its parts and being well-rounded is the foundation for living a balanced and fulfilling life. Laura T. Broxterman Obstetrician Gynecologist, The Christ Hospital Health Network Biology Major I felt very well prepared and ahead of the others in the workplace. The things I learned at Xavier covered a broad base of computer science, including the ability to learn new things on my own. This is a field that changes. Mike Helmick Senior Software Lead and Technical Engineer, Google Computer Science Major My Xavier experience gave me many opportunities to understand and get to know myself. I probably learned as much about my own though processes and motivations as I did about academic content. And the community at Xavier is truly special—its members are supportive, compassionate and committed to growth. Paul Moeller Lead Teacher at Ethel M. Taylor Academy Middle Childhood Education Major Success After Graduation Xavier students land jobs as analysts, accountants, teachers, nurses, doctors, researchers, software developers, social workers, lawyers, and so much more. Our outcomes rates for the class of 2019 indicate how many students are employed, volunteering or in graduate school within six months of graduation. 97% College ofArts and Sciences 98% College ofProfessional Sciences 99% WilliamsCollege of Business Teachers Honored by Xavier Alumni Recently, members of Xavier’s alumni relations department (and the Blob) traveled to St. Xavier High School to honor Kris Holmes, a 2012 graduate with a degree in History, as part of their Teacher Appreciation Campaign. Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram