Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Veterans & Military Student Services About Us Paying for College Resources News & Events Career Programs Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Military Student Enrollment Checklist Prior Learning Credit Get Involved Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Veterans & Military Student Services News & Events Veterans News & Events VA Offers Debt Relief to Veterans through Year's End UofM Named Among Top 10 Military Friendly Schools; Makes List for Sixth Consecutive Year Congratulations Student Veteran Graduates of Fall 2019! In the Spotlight UofM's online bachelor's programs rank 1st for veterans in Tennessee & 28th nationally! UofM is rated "Best Online MBA" for veterans in Tennessee & 29th nationally! Our News & Events UofM Named Among Top 10 Military Friendly Schools; Makes List for Sixth Consecutive Year The University of Memphis has been named to the Military Friendly Schools List for the sixth consecutive year by Victory Media, originator of the Military Friendly group of education and career resources for veterans and their families. The UofM was ranked No. 9 nationally. The list honors the top colleges, universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace military service members and veterans as students and ensure their success on campus. Learn more about our recognition! VMSS Launches the Textbooks for Tiger Veterans Lending Library Starting in the Fall 2019 semester, UofM veterans and military-connected students will be able to borrow textbooks housed at the University Libraries in the reserves section. The Veterans & Military Student Services Department (VMSS) and University Libraries have collaborated to offer students a resource that helps defray the cost of textbooks. Recognizing an increase in the number of student veterans seeking textbook resources last year, VMSS Coordinator, Marcallina James (MJ) and Graduate Assistant, Sydnie Roberts revived the book lending program started by the UofM Student Veteran Organization in 2016. Read more about this exciting launch! UofM Awarded Gold Status on Top Military-Friendly Schools for 2019 - 2020 Read more about our GOLD status award! Financial Aid Notice The Financial Aid Office administers federal, state and institutional aid programs to qualified students. Have you applied for FAFSA yet? Did you know that you may be eligible for Federal Student Aid, VA educational benefits AND additional scholarships? Learn more about financial aid, scholarships and VA educational benefits! VMSS Recognition Events Veterans Day Veterans Graduation UofM Named a Top 10 Military Friendly School for Fifth Straight Year The University of Memphis has been named to the Military Friendly Schools List for the fifth consecutive year by Victory Media, originator of the Military Friendly group of education and career resources for veterans and their families. The UofM was ranked gold status among Tier 2 research institutions. The list honors the top colleges, universities and trade schools that are doing the most to embrace military service members and veterans as students and ensure their success on campus. Learn more about our recognition! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/10/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.