Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Financial Aid North Dallas High School North Dallas High School Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance The Robert H. Dedman SMU scholarship program was established to award the top scholars at North Dallas High School. The endowment fund, created by Mr. Dedman due to his generosity and appreciation of the education afforded him by his high school, provides a full tuition & fees, room and board scholarship for two students that matriculate from North Dallas High School to Southern Methodist University. Mr. Dedman was an outstanding student at North Dallas High School and represented the school as a top debater and baseball letterman. He worked his way through college, law school, and a Masters in law at SMU. He followed up a successful law career with the founding of Club Corp. His company became the owner and manager of the largest number of golf courses and resorts in the world. In his voluntary roles, Mr. Dedman has served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees and has made numerous gifts to SMU. He has been honored as a North Dallas Distinguished Alumnus, and his picture and biographical information is displayed in the school’s main hall. This scholarship provides full tuition & fees, room and board for its recipients totaling over $288,000 over a four year period. Over seventy-five percent of SMU students receive some form of financial assistance, and the needs of Dedman Scholarship recipients are foreseen and planned for by SMU. Eligibility for the Robert H. Dedman SMU Scholarship Program • Class Rank – the student is expected to be in the top 10% of the graduating class • Grade Average – the student is expected to have a grade average of 90 or better (on a 100 point scale) • Curriculum – the student is expected to have two or more Advanced Placement (AP) courses completed or in progress • Extracurricular Activities – the student is expected to have some involvement outside of the classroom-within the school and/or community. The selection committee may relax the criteria in meritorious circumstances by its sole discretion. The Selection Process Applicants must complete the admission process and be accepted to SMU before being considered for the scholarship. A student must be admitted into the fall term directly following their high school graduation. Dedman scholarship information is available in the North Dallas High School counseling office. Finalists will be contacted for an interview by the selection committee in March. Please contact the undergraduate admission office at rodrickj@smu.edu or 214-768-2087 with any questions regarding this program. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search