Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Department of Music Department of Music Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Undergraduate Performance Graduate Colloquium Courses Events News Search Home Welcome We offer undergraduates the opportunity to major or minor in music, affording students across the university access to first-rate faculty and providing performance opportunities in a wide range of ensembles. Our graduate programs in composition, musicology, ethnomusicology, and music theory have produced leading scholars and award-winning artists. Read more News The BBC sits down with Tyshawn Sorey to discuss his latest composition, "Monochromatic Light (Afterlife)" May 12, 2022 The BBC recently sat down with Sorey at the University of Pennsylvania to discuss his latest composition, "Monochromatic Light (Afterlife)". Read More Music Department Faculty and Staff Receive 2022 Grant Awards from The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation May 11, 2022 In its fifth year, The Sachs Program for Arts Innovation awarded 49 grants over the course of the year, for a total of $288,000 in funding. Read More 2022 Annual Composition Competition Winners Announced April 18, 2022 The UPenn Composition faculty has awarded the following prizes this year in the annual composition competition: Erin Busch - Hilda K. Nitzsche Music Prize for 'Ensure Proper Drainage’. Read More Professor Mary Caldwell's First Book Released by Cambridge University Press April 11, 2022 Professor Mary Caldwell's first book, Devotional Refrains in Medieval Latin Song has been released by Cambridge University Press. Read More Professor Mary Caldwell awarded Franklin Research Grant from the American Philosophical Society April 11, 2022 Professor Mary Caldwell has been awarded a Franklin Research Grant from the American Philosophical Society to work on her second book, Saintly Song: Musical Hagiography and Read More Kristopher Bendrick Receives 1st Prize at 2022 ASCAP/SEAMUS National Conference April 7, 2022 Kristopher Bendrick, Ph.D. Read More Erin Busch Receives Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching by Graduate Students April 7, 2022 Erin Busch, Ph.D. candidate in Composition, received a Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching by Graduate Students. Busch is one of ten recipients, chosen for the year 2022. Read More Flannery Cunningham Premiers Composition dowsing//divining as Part of MATA Presents April 6, 2022 Flannery Cunningham, (Ph.D. Read More Shelley Zhang Organizes Event Exploring Historic Collaborations Between Chinese and American Musicians March 28, 2022 Often hailed as the father of Western classical music in China, Li Delun 李德伦 was a conductor, multi-instrumentalist, and advocate for the arts in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). Read More Shelley Zhang featured on Penn Today's 'Understand This...' Podcast April 5, 2022 In the latest episode of Penn Today’s ‘Understand This …’ podcast series, Obed Arango of the School of Social Policy & Practice, alongside Shelley Zhang, (Ph.D. Read More Donate Contact Us Department of Music University of Pennsylvania 201 South 34th Street, Room 129 Philadelphia, PA 19104-6313 t: 215-898-7544 f: 215-573-2106 Map Timothy Rommen Department Chair James Sykes Graduate Chair Anna Weesner Undergraduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn WebLogin