Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Documents » Microsoft PowerPoint » Checklist Set Navigation title in component Microsoft Excel Accessibility Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents Guides Checklist Tutorials PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials File Setup Does the document file name not contain spaces and/or special characters? Is the document file name concise, generally limited to 20-30 characters, and does it make the contents of the file clear? Have the document properties for Title, Author, Subject (AKA Description), Keywords, Language, and Copyright Status been completed? Have you set your document language to English? Have track changes been accepted or rejected and turned off? Have comments been removed and formatting marks been turned off? Text Does the document utilize recommended fonts (i.e., Open Sans, Gentium Book, Times New Roman, Verdana, Arial, Tahoma, Helvetica, or Calibri)? Are heading styles organized in a hierarchal and logical fashion, with consecutive headings (i.e., no missing heading levels)? Is the list style being used, as opposed to manually typed characters (e.g. Hyphens, numbers, or graphics)? Is content clear and concise? Is all text logical in the Outline View? Do all URLs contain descriptive hyperlinks (i.e., avoid generic phrases like "click here"; instead, use phrases that let users know about the content of the linked page prior to selecting it)? Is the color contrast ratio between foreground text and background color sufficient? Images Do all images, grouped images, and non-text elements that convey information have meaningful alternative-text descriptions? Do complex images (i.e., charts and graphs) have descriptive text near the image (perhaps as a caption or long description)? Is the document free of scanned text-heavy images (i.e., avoid text content contained in images that disappear when images are not available)? If color is used to emphasize important text, is there is an alternate, compliant method used as well? Have you provided alternatives for or avoided use of sensory information (e.g., shape, size, color, visual location, orientation, sound, etc.)? File Setup Does the document file name not contain spaces and/or special characters? Is the document file name concise, generally limited to 20-30 characters, and does it make the contents of the file clear? Have the document properties for Title, Author, Subject (AKA Description), Keywords, Language, and Copyright Status been completed? Have you set your document language to English? Have track changes been accepted or rejected and turned off? Have comments been removed and formatting marks been turned off? Text Does the document utilize recommended fonts (i.e., Open Sans, Gentium Book, Times New Roman, Verdana, Arial, Tahoma, Helvetica, or Calibri)? Are heading styles organized in a hierarchal and logical fashion, with consecutive headings (i.e., no missing heading levels)? Is the list style being used, as opposed to manually typed characters (e.g. Hyphens, numbers, or graphics)? Is content clear and concise? Is all text logical in the Outline View? Do all URLs contain descriptive hyperlinks (i.e., avoid generic phrases like "click here"; instead, use phrases that let users know about the content of the linked page prior to selecting it)? Is the color contrast ratio between foreground text and background color sufficient? Images Do all images, grouped images, and non-text elements that convey information have meaningful alternative-text descriptions? Do complex images (i.e., charts and graphs) have descriptive text near the image (perhaps as a caption or long description)? Is the document free of scanned text-heavy images (i.e., avoid text content contained in images that disappear when images are not available)? If color is used to emphasize important text, is there is an alternate, compliant method used as well? Have you provided alternatives for or avoided use of sensory information (e.g., shape, size, color, visual location, orientation, sound, etc.)? Tables Do all data tables in the document have designated row and/or column headers in table properties? Does the table header repeat at the top of the table as it goes from one page to another? Are data cells set so they do not split across pages? Multimedia If a video–Does the video or animation contain synchronized captioning? If an animation–Does the animation have a text equivalent? Accessibility Check Has a separate accessible version of the document been provided when there is no other way to make the content accessible? Did you use the built-in MS Office Accessibility Checker, has that been run and does it pass? Did you visit the Accessible PowerPoint Microsoft Help article for more information? Did you contact the Accessibility Network if you are having trouble? University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top