Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Business Administration MBA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Business Administration MBA Apply Events Request More Info Business Administration MBA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Full-time MBA Online MBA Part-time MBA Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Business Administration The Master of Business Administration (MBA) in Temple University’s Fox School of Business is designed for students looking to drive change—in their careers, their companies and their areas of expertise. The MBA program focuses on key management principles that are relevant across industries and positions. These principles include communication, leadership, resource management, strategic planning, finance management and business ethics. Depending on work experience, professional interest and schedule, you can choose from four flexible Business Administration MBA options—all of which provide the credentials necessary to launch or advance your career in business. Learn more about the Fox MBA, and determine which program option is right for you. You can also request more information or, if you are ready to apply, you can submit your graduate application. Fox MBA Programs Request Information Apply What sets the Fox MBA apart? The Fox School of Business knows that no two students—or professional trajectories—are alike. With a newly integrated curriculum designed for full-time students and busy working professionals, Fox provides real-world learning opportunities; personalized service and mentorship; and translatable value. Whether online or at one of Temple’s regional campuses, Fox MBA students are immersed in a collaborative learning and professional environment. Small class sizes offer the opportunity to work closely with fellow students and experienced, internationally recognized faculty. Unique programming also allows interaction with industry experts. The MBA programs allow students to build directly translatable skills and develop valuable networks they can take with them into their professional lives. The programs offer schedule-friendly class times and online components. Students also enjoy the convenience that comes with attending an urban university, with ample public transportation and proximity to industry-leading corporations based or with offices in Philadelphia. Following graduation, students have access to an extensive and connected alumni network of more than 320,000, located in Philadelphia, across the country and around the world. Program Formats There are four options available for the Business Administration MBA, so you can select the program that best suits your professional and personal needs. You can choose the Full-time MBA, Part-time MBA, Online MBA or the Executive MBA. Concentrations You can focus on Business Administration or you can take one of the following concentrations. Business Analytics Propel your career as a data scientist by learning to analyze raw data, transform it into valuable insights, and use those insights to better inform business decisions. A market-driven and customizable curriculum allows you to pursue the path that’s right for your professional development plan. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus only. View Concentration Details Business Management Build upon your education and professional experience by developing a deeper understanding of business and attaining the skills necessary for advanced professional, entrepreneurial and leadership positions. View Concentration Details Corporate Compliance, Governance and Regulatory Policy Gain an understanding of how national, state and local laws apply to business and how public policy impacts some of the business world’s most common challenges, including legal liability, corruption, discrimination, data privacy and more. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Enterprise Risk Management Develop the skills to foresee and assess the unique risks today’s businesses face, in areas such as cybersecurity, climate change, human capital and data analytics, and learn from real-world examples how to avoid common pitfalls and resolve issues before they arise. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus only. View Concentration Details Entrepreneurship Combining theory and practice, studying Entrepreneurship allows you to develop a deeper understanding of key business principles, and fine-tune the unique skill sets you need to transform your creative ideas into reality. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Financial Management Learn to combine analytical skills with face-to-face business and collaboration skills, and develop the skills and experience necessary to help companies and individuals with their general finances, taxes, real estate ventures, retirement planning and more. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Health Sector Management Take your career in the healthcare industry to the next level by further developing your knowledge of the industry and its trends and challenges, and fine-tuning critical leadership skills including management, financial decision making, business reasoning and more. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus only. View Concentration Details Human Resource Management Gain the skills and experience necessary to become a successful Human Resources professional, capable of recruiting, maintaining and training talent for businesses across different industries, and enhancing companies’ reputation, productivity and profits. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Innovation Management Learn to transform your unique ideas into tangible innovations through specialized academic programming focused on creative thinking, strategy, problem-solving, design and critical analysis and evaluation. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details International Management Gain a deeper understanding of how traditional business theories and principles can be applied on a global scale, and fine-tune communication, analytical, and other critical skills necessary to navigate international business. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Management Consulting With a strong focus on effective communication and critical thinking, and an interdisciplinary approach to academic programming, the Management Consulting concentration prepares students for careers in virtually any industry. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Marketing Management Become an expert in marketing research, strategy and management, through holistic academic programming that covers everything from brand development and budgeting to market analysis and strategic communications. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Real Estate Explore the world of real estate while earning your MBA. Gain an in-depth understanding of the role commercial real estate plays in addressing today’s societal and business challenges while studying its many facets, including built environments, capital markets, development, finance, law and valuation. Sport Business Analyze the history, current trends, problems and policies of the sports business, and develop the knowledge and skills necessary to build toward a successful career in an exciting, ever-evolving industry. Courses to complete this concentration are available online only. View Concentration Details Strategic Management With interdisciplinary coursework combining principles of entrepreneurship, innovation, international business and consulting, students learn to think critically and creatively, and to develop effective business strategies. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus and online. View Concentration Details Supply Chain Management Focus your business management studies on critical areas such as planning, forecasting, product assembly, storage, distribution and customer service—all of the elements that are essential to helping a business operate smoothly, effectively and successfully. View Concentration Details Travel and Tourism Further your career in one of the world’s most exciting industries, and prepare for positions in tourism, hospitality, and entertainment by deepening your knowledge of areas such as destination marketing, hospitality management, tourism economics and more. Courses to complete this concentration are available on campus only. View Concentration Details Classes & Curriculum In addition to core and elective courses, students may be required to complete a capstone course or project. The requirements will vary depending on which of the four MBA options is chosen, but listed below are a selection of courses available to students. Business Strategy in a Global Environment Enterprise Risk Management Entrepreneurial Thinking and Innovation Financial Analysis and Strategy Globalization Leadership in Organizations Managing Risk Socioeconomic Context of Business Explore more information about Business Administration MBA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration DBA Financial Analysis and Risk Management MS Marketing MS Statistics MS Related Graduate Certificates Business Analytics Human Resource Management IT Auditing and Cyber Security Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,218.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contacts Executive MBA Coni Zingarelli is the director of graduate admissions. Phone: 215-204-3103 Email: czing@temple.edu Full-time MBA Coni Zingarelli is the director of graduate admissions. Phone: 215-204-3103 Email: czing@temple.edu Online MBA Rachel Brown is the associate director of graduate admissions. Phone: 215-204-5766 Email: rachelbrown@temple.edu Part-Time MBA Barry Griffiths is the senior associate director of graduate admissions. Phone: 215-204-3960 Email: griffiths@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. Learn more about the Fox MBA, and determine which program option is right for you. You can also request more information or, if you are ready to apply, you can submit your graduate application. Fox MBA Programs Request Information Apply BU-BA-MBA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Business Administration MBA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Full-time MBA Online MBA Part-time MBA Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info