Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu The Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation SHIFT at Columbia examines the factors that shape sexual health and sexual violence for undergraduates. Facebook About SHIFT Team Contact Us News Ethnography Research Methods Ethnography Team Quantitative Daily Diary Survey Quantitative Team Policy Advisory Undergraduate FAQ Facebook Search You are here Home The Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. About SHIFT is a comprehensive research project that examines the many factors that shape sexual health and sexual violence for undergrads at Columbia. Ethnography Our ethnographic work examines and analyzes students’ experiences of socializing, sex, sexual assault and sexual health. Policy A major priority of SHIFT is to make sure that the knowledge we generate is actually useful in enhancing the campus climate. Quantitative SHIFT’s quantitative components seek to identify the individual, social, and structural risk and protective factors. FAQ Do students have any leadership role? What methods were used? Learn more about SHIFT. News Stay up to date with SHIFT's latest news. Close Email Us Questions? Comments? We want to hear from you. Contact Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers