Open search area Quick Links Home Home Student Guide Time Schedule Registration Academic Calendar Course Catalog DARS - Degree Audit Reporting System What is DARS? Requesting a Degree Audit Reading the Audit Questions? What is DARS? The Degree Audit Reporting System (DARS) produces a report reflecting academic progress toward completion of an undergraduate degree in your declared or proposed major. The DARS report, or degree audit, shows how your University of Washington courses, transfer courses, and courses in progress apply toward degree requirements. The Degree Audit Report is an internal document. It should be used as a tool to assist you and your adviser in planning your future coursework. It is not an official certification of your academic record. Requesting a Degree Audit Go to the degree audit page in MyPlan to request, view, and print degree audits for any available degree program. Audits are now available for all Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma undergraduate majors and minors, as well as some professional programs. Reading the Audit The following is general information about the structure and makeup of the audit. See the hover text on your audit for a more detailed explanation of its text. Requirements The requirement areas--university, college, and major--are further broken down into specific pieces known as sub-requirements. Each sub-requirement is independent and must be satisfactorily completed. The requirement is not satisfied if any individual sub-requirement is deficient. Total University Credit There may be a difference in total credits and cumulative GPA between the transcript and the audit. DARS may catch duplication of courses or courses exceeding the maximum allowed toward degree requirements before it is recorded on your transcript. Exceptions An exception reflects any changes, such as waivers or subsitutions, applied to your academic program by your adviser. This allows DARS to individualize your specific degree program. In-Progress Courses An "in progress" course is one for which you have not yet received a final grade. This includes courses in which you are currently enrolled (which are reported on the audit with a grade of IP) and any course with a grade of X, I, or N. This report assumes you will satisfactorily complete the courses for which you are currently registered and that none of these is a duplicate or exceeds the maximum allowed toward degree requirements. Questions? If you have questions about requirements in the audit, please contact the program's adviser. However, note that if you have exceptions or transfer credit pending, it may be a days before they are added to your audit. If you have a technical question, please contact the DARS Office. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms