Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation Events & Programs No events found If not shown here, all Spring events can be found in the Clemson Events Calendar. Global Challenges and other Gen Ed courses: Not able to attend the GC Institute? Consults are available all summer. Just message OTEI@clemson.edu for individual consultation on syllabi and assignments. For other questions and more information, see the Crossings site. Programs 2022-23 All OTEI programs and courses provide faculty with extended educational development, based on research. Completion of programs provides faculty with educational professional development certification, which we provide directly to Digital Measures. Inclusive Teaching Workshop Series OTEI will be offering this series again this year, on these topics: inclusivity and active learning; culturally responsive assessment; difficult dialogues (with the Office of Diversity, Inclusivity and Equity): and teaching inclusive content (this is recommended as a two part session). Colleges and departments can schedule any of these topics. Call for Faculty Learning Community participants: All instructors may apply This FLC program provides faculty learning communities across the university, led by Clemson faculty, to assist peers in learning about and incorporating new, evidence-based ideas into practice. You have already been doing lots of new things this past year—find your community for support! Do you have an idea for an FLC? Apply to be a leader! See the 2022 call for leaders, open now. Teaching with Transparency The Office of Teaching Effectiveness and Innovation offers training in a national program called TILT: Transparency in Learning and Teaching Project to Clemson; the TILT Higher Education initiative is directed by Dr. Maryanne Winkelhmes and supported by the American Association of Colleges and Universities (AAC&U).This program assists instructors of all ranks in learning about and incorporating new, evidenced-based ideas into their teaching practice. Clemson TILT supports ClemsonForward through assisting instructors in offering clear paths to student learning. Participants will commit to making small instructional changes in a course during the academic year. Assignment Design A current focus for Clemson TILT is Assignment Design, especially Signature Assignments in General Education. In collaboration with Dr. Bridget Trogden, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, we offer a Learning-Focused Assignment Design course. You can self-enroll at any time or join a cohort offered during the year. Engaging all Learners through Universal Design for Learning and Teaching Engaging all Learners through Universal Design for Learning and Teaching Facilitated, asynchronous Canvas course. This course distills the UDL approach into manageable chunks and provides practical teaching advice to implement. Email otei@clemson.edu to join a fall cohort. You can also self-enroll to access this resource. Gen Z Learning at Clemson: A Student Learning Project The goal of this multi-year project was to capture the current state of academic learning at Clemson, highlight the teaching and learning practices most beneficial to today’s student, and project future directions for course-based learning. The SLP empowers students to take part in the discussions about their formal education at Clemson. You can locate the Gen Z results and resources from students this page on our current "Gen Z" students, with resources from a student research project covering three semesters of information gathering. Find information on active learning, learning preferences and other topics from Clemson students. Email otei@clemson.edu to schedule an offering for your college or department. Home ClemsonTeaching Events & Programs Services Resources Contact Us About Us Follow Us! Your Department or Program Name on Facebook Your Department or Program Name on Twitter Your Department or Program Name on Instagram Related Links Clemson Online Creative Inquiry program General Education Global Engagement Grad 360 Multi-Cultural Center Open Educational Resources Service-Learning The Watt Family Innovation Center Thinks2 Undergraduate Studies Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram