Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Sites Faculty Information For Faculty Information For Faculty Chairpersons Chairpersons Faculty Handbook Faculty Search Forms and Procedures (Office for Institutional Diversity) Faculty Recruitment Expenses Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) What Faculty and Staff Need to Know About FERPA Provost and Dean of Faculties Sabbaticals Self-Study for Reaccreditation University Statutes Promotion Cases: Preparation and Presentation Preparing and Presenting Promotion Cases Promotion of Full-time Non-tenure-track Faculty Guidelines Student Resources Academic Integrity (Office of Student Services) Student Conference Travel Request Form Human Resources Department Payroll Deadlines Performance Management Program PeopleSoft HR Student Hiring Faculty Faculty Academic Calendar Academic Integrity Procedures BC GrantScape: Corporate & Foundation Funding Opportunities Connors Family Learning Center Data Security Policy Faculty Compensation Committee Reports to the Faculty Faculty Elections Faculty Handbook Faculty Microcomputer Resource Center (FMRC) FERPA: Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Information Technology Services Libraries Scientific Instrumentation and Machining Services (SIMS) Travel Reimbursement Guidelines Travel Request Form Travel Expense Report (PeopleSoft Financials) Part-time Faculty Part-time Faculty Getting Started Agora Portal - A central place where a wide variety of information or services from multiple sources are accessible. Eagle-One card (BC ID) - A multipurpose identification and debit account card which serves as the official ID card of Boston College. New Hire Parking - A temporary pass (valid for one week to allow you to obtain your regular permit) is available for newly hired employees to park for free in designated areas. Parking Permits and Regulations - BC employees who drive vehicles to the University are required to register their vehicles with the Office of Student Services and affix a valid parking permit to their vehicle. Personal Identification Number (PIN) - Your PIN is primarily used to access voice services such as voicemail. Username and Password - Most electronic services and resources restricted to the BC community, including email and Agora Portal, require authentication by entering your username and password. Committees Committees Arts and Sciences Faculty Elections - memberships University-wide Faculty Committees - descriptions Approved minutes of A&S Educational Policy Committee (EPC) 2016 November 17 September 15 May 9 February 25 January 28 2015 November 19 September 17 May 4 April 16 March 12 2014 November 20 October 23 September 18 May 5 March 20 February 6 2013 November 21 October 31 September 18 March 20 February 7 2012 November 29 October 25 September 20 May 7 April 12 February 2 2011 October 20 September 22 April 7 March 17 February 3 2010 November 18 October 21 September 23 May 10 April 8 March 11 February 4 2009 November 18 October 22 September 24 May 1 March 12 February 5 2008 November 20 October 23 September 25 March 27 February 8 2007 November 1 May 10 April 4 March 15 Forms Forms Faculty Fellowships and Sabbaticals Faculty Travel Reimbursement Part-Time Faculty Research Expense Grants Research Incentive Grants Syllabus / Contract for Individually Arranged and Non-scheduled Courses Independent Study, Reading and Research, Undergraduate Research, Thesis Teaching, Advising, and Mentoring Grants (TAM) Teaching, Advising, and Mentoring Expense Grants (TAME) Undergraduate Research Fellowships Undergraduate Research Fellowships Boston College established the Undergraduate Research Fellowship Program for the purpose of enhancing the academic experience of undergraduates by cultivating their research skills and fostering mentor relationships between undergraduates and faculty. The Program provides funds to faculty to pay for a student’s research assistance with a faculty member’s research project. Students ordinarily do not receive academic credit for work done under an Undergraduate Research Fellowship. Requests for funding must come from the faculty member whose research project the student will assist. Faculty interested in guiding an Undergraduate Research Fellow are urged to discuss their project and prospective student assistants with the department sponsor and/or undergraduate program director. Applications are reviewed and funded three times a year--fall, spring, and summer terms. Guidelines Governing the Project Undergraduate research fellowships are intended to provide support for the research activities of full-time faculty. The work performed by the student should be viewed as part of the student's long-term academic development. Full-time BC undergraduates from any school or department may be included in the faculty proposal and project. The expectation is that students will work directly with faculty and not independently nor remotely without close supervision. Note, students who are receiving academic credit for a project are not normally eligible to also receive a research fellowship for that project. Student Requirements Full-time Boston College undergraduate, typically in the Morrissey College. Normally at least sophomore status. Academically strong The hours worked can vary from a total of 20 to 200 hours per semester, and up to 400 hours for the summer. Student eligibility does not depend on student financial need. Please remember that no student is allowed to work more than a total of 20 hours per week during the academic year or 40 hours per week during the summer. This includes all their URF and non-URF BC jobs. Students who work more than 20 hours per week during the summer are limited to working 12 weeks (out of the 14 week summer period). Students should be made aware that work-study grant funds are taken from the work-study allotment until that is depleted. Note: Sudents must file an I-9 and have a social security number BEFORE they begin work. Faculty are expected to provide appropriate instruction and supervision for the research assistants. These positions are not to serve as substitute support for students who would ordinarily be supported by grants. Through this program our students can work closely with faculty, develop their research skills, and enhance their undergraduate experience. Although this program does assist faculty, its primary purpose is to engage talented students in meaningful research activity. To Request Funding Faculty seeking funding for an Undergraduate Research Fellow should complete the Google form through the link below. Funding Request Form BC login required. We will begin accepting requests for the summer in March. Requests received by the second Friday in April will be reviewed as a group and faculty can expect to be notified of funding decisions before the end of the month. We will begin accepting requests for the academic year in July. Requests received before the second Friday in August will be reviewed in bulk and faculty can expect to be notified of funding decisions before the end of the month. Requests received after the cut-off for the bulk reviews will be reviewed on a rolling basis. If you have any questions please contact Gene McMahon, Associate Dean Finance and Administration, at gene.mcmahon@bc.edu. BC Events All Academic Calendar BC News BC Forward | COVID-19 updates A resource on protocols, vaccination, and FAQs related to the 2021-22 academic year. Boston College recognizes retirees, long-service employees Retiring faculty members Mary Walsh and Patrick Byrne offer parting thoughts. Character sketch: Blake Tomnitz '12 An investment banking analyst turned award-winning brewer reflects on his journey. Back To Top Back To Top Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College