Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index University Recreation Menu Search TTU University Recreation Membership Member Services We offer a variety of membership options for members of the Texas Tech community and their families. We also have opportunities for the greater Lubbock community to join the University Recreation family. Check out our different membership options and all that we offer below! Facility Offerings: 242,000+ square feet of indoor fitness space 30+ included group fitness classes each week Access to 50+ foot indoor climbing wall Access to indoor and outdoor acquatics centers, featuring a 645-foot lazy river, lap swimming, and water slide Activities for the whole family like kids summer camp and swim lessons CrossFit Texas Tech with 20+ classes each week Member-priced massages from a licensed Massage Therapist Personal training opportunites for as low as $20/session *Some services require additional payment Membership Information StudentCampus AffiliateOff-Campus AffiliateLocker Rentals Undergraduate on campus If you are currently taking at least one hour of in-person classes, you have paid the University Recreation fee through your tuition and fees. You will have access to University Recreation facilities for the semester that you are currently enrolled in. Distance Learning If all of the classes you are currently enrolled in are online, you have not been charged a University Recreation fee through your tuition and fees. To access University Recreation facilities, you will need to pay the fee. Pay the fee at University Recreation Monday through Friday from 8:00am-6:00pm. Use the Elect-to-Pay online option that adds the charge back to your tuition and fees. Teaching/Research Assistants If you are a graduate student with a Teaching Assistantship or Research Assistantship, your University Recreation fee will not be applied. To access University Recreation facilities, you will need to pay the fee one of the two following ways. Pay the fee at University Recreation Monday through Friday from 8:00am-6:00pm. Use the Elect-to-Pay online option that adds the charge back to your tuition and fees. Semester Student Fees Rate Student Semester Fee (Summer 2022) $100 Prorated daily throughout the summer Student Spouse Fee $50 Student Child (ages 4-16) $35 Who qualifies as a campus affiliate? TTU Faculty/Staff TTU Retirees HSC Employees (Including clinical faculty) TTU Student Organization Advisors (Including Campus Ministries) OLLI (Osher Lifelong Learning Institute) All patrons need to bring their driver's license and proof of affiliation with one of these categories in order to purchase a membership. Annual Memberships (Available 5/31/22) All annual memberships are now valid for an entire calendar year! Your membership is now valid for 365 days after purchase. Purchasing an annual membership saves you $60 over the monthly price as a Campus Affiliate. Summer Memberships Interested in a membership only for the summer months? You can purchase multiple months of the monthly membership at one time. Perfect for cooling off at the Leisure Pool! Can I get a membership for my spouse or depandants? Yes, Campus members can purchase memberships for their spouse and dependents (17+ years old) at the Campus membership rate. To purchase a spouse membership, the spouse will need to bring their driver's license and proof of marriage (marriage license, shared bank statement, etc.). Dependants 4 - 16 years old are eligible for a dependant membership. Dependants 3 and under do not require a membership to enter University Recreation facilities. Campus Memberships Annual Rate (365 day membership) Available starting 5/31/2022 Monthly Rate Campus Member $300 $30 Campus Spouse or Dependant (17+) $300 $30 Campus Dependant (4-16 years old) $150 $25 Who qualifies as an off-campus affiliate? Texas Tech Alumni Alumni Association Members (Anyone can be a member of the Texas Tech Alumni Association! Click here for more information!) Government Employees School District Employees University Medical Center Employees Military All patrons need to bring their driver's license and proof of affiliation with one of these categories in order to purchase a membership. Annual Memberships (Available 5/31/22) All annual memberships are now valid for an entire calendar year! Your membership is now valid for 365 days after purchase. Purchasing an annual membership saves you $100 over the monthly price as an Off-Campus Affiliate. Summer Memberships Interested in a membership only for the summer months? You can purchase multiple months of the monthly membership at one time. Perfect for cooling off at the Leisure Pool! Can I get a membership for my spouse or dependants? Yes, Off-Campus members can purchase memberships for their spouse and dependents (17+ years old) at the Off-Campus membership rate. To purchase a spouse membership, the spouse will need to bring their driver's license and proof of marriage (marriage license, shared bank statement, etc.). Dependants 4 - 16 years old are eligible for a dependant membership. Dependants 3 and under do not require a membership to enter University Recreation facilities. Off-Campus Memberships Annual Rate (365 day membership) Available starting 5/31/2022 Monthly Rate Off-Campus Member $380 $40 Off-Campus Spouse or Dependants (17+) $380 $40 Off-Campus Dependants (4-16 years old) $150 $25 University Recreation members are eligible to rent a locker. Locker rentals can be done in the Membership Office Monday-Friday from 8:00am-6:00pm or at the Equipment Issue desk during open facility hours. Pricing is as follows. Locker Size Semester Rate New Full Locker $35 New Half Locker $30 Full Locker $25 Half Locker $20 Membership Policies Please note that University Recreation has gone entirely cashless. We accept most major credit cards and Apple Pay. For more information on our policies, please call us at 806-742-3351 or click here. Online Membership Renewal To register for or renew your existing University Recreation membership online, please click here. Alternatively you can visit our membership office located in Room 202 of the Rec Center. Member Services Hours Check for daily Member Services Hours on our hours page. Please feel free to call us at 806-742-3351 Monday - Friday from 8:00am - 5:00pm. University Recreation Address Texas Tech University, Box 42151, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3351 Email urec@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 9, 2022 12:04 PM University Recreation Hours Programs University Recreation Back Aquatics Fitness and Wellness Sport Programs Outdoor Pursuits Summer Youth Programs Memberships Facility Information University Recreation Back Aquatic Facilities Facility Rental Information Student Rec Center West Rec Turf Field Complex Parking Parking During Basketball Games Rentals/Reservations Employment About Us University Recreation About Us Back Professional Staff University Recreation Mission and Vision Policies Giving and Scholarships Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index