Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Discover Columbia Law. Learn More Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent Alumni News Classes of 2020 and 2021 Cross the Stage and Celebrate Together Alumni News Bobbie J. Wilson ’90: Pursuing Passions With Practicality in Mind Featured News Events News Graduation 2022: An Evening to Remember J.D., LL.M., J.SD., and E.LL.M. students celebrate graduation, with Andrew Yang ’99 delivering the keynote. Alumni News In Memoriam: Morton L. Janklow ’53, Preeminent Literary Agent Law School News News Columbia Law School to Advise Ukraine on International Claims and Reparations Faculty News Full-Time Faculty Members Join Columbia Law School Read All Stories More in The Press Meet Our Faculty Degree Programs J.D. Program Join a remarkable community of aspiring lawyers preparing to lead the world. LL.M. Program Elevate your career to new heights in just one year with this fully customizable program. Executive LL.M. Program Become the global business lawyer of the future in this ambitious, six-month program. J.S.D. Program Leverage the Law School’s extensive support and resources to jump-start your career in legal academia. Areas of Study View All Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights View All Areas of Study Your Campus, Your City Columbia Law School’s remarkable community is driven by teamwork and camaraderie. Explore life on campus and in New York City, get an inside look at the student experience, and find out how to visit our campus. Related Events View All Events May 31 2022 Deadline - June 6th - Moot Court Student Editor/LPW Teaching Fellow Tue, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. William and June Warren Hall, 1125 Amsterdam Ave., New York, NY 10027 Jun 1 2022 Revolution 12/13 | Abolition Feminism with Sarah Haley Wed, 6:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. The People's Forum, 320 W. 37th St., New York, NY 10018 Jun 2 2022 Annual Staff Appreciation & Recognition Luncheon Thu, 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Faculty House, 64 Morningside Dr., New York, NY 10027 Presidential Ballroom View All Events Join the Conversation Columbia Law on Facebook @columbialawschool on Instagram Columbia Law School @ColumbiaLaw on Twitter Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.