By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Academic Administration More from this Section Commencement Online Programs Libraries, Collections & Galleries Schools & Colleges Graduate Degrees Undergraduate Majors & Minors Centers & Institutes Research Syracuse Abroad Calendars Opportunities & Support Departments Syracuse University Global Academic Administration Syracuse has a long legacy of academic excellence, and we continue to build on that legacy in ways that prepare students to succeed in a constantly changing world. The administration provides leadership and counsel on academic programs, policies, faculty recruitment and support, research, and support for academic affairs. Office of Academic Affairs Gretchen Ritter was appointed Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer in June 2021 and began her new role on Oct. 1, 2021. She previously served as the Executive Dean of the College and Arts and Sciences at the Ohio State University. As the chief academic officer for the largest college of arts and sciences in the United States, she was responsible for the academic success and research excellence of more than 17,000 undergraduate students, 2,300 graduate students and 1,300 faculty. Read more about Gretchen Ritter Academic Affairs Chris Johnson was appointed Associate Provost for Academic Affairs in September 2018. In this capacity, Johnson partners with Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter and other Academic Affairs leaders to support key academic initiatives and advance the University’s vision and mission as outlined in the Academic Strategic Plan. Read more about Chris Johnson Academic Operations Steven Bennett is Senior Vice President for International Programs and Academic Operations and Chief of Staff, Academic Affairs. In this capacity, he plays a critical role in overseeing academic operations for administrative units that report to the Office of the Provost, including Information Technology, budget, Syracuse Abroad, and satellite facilities around the U.S. and the globe. He also works closely with the Provost as chief of staff in the Office of Academic Affairs. Read more about Steven Bennett Enrollment Services Ryan Williams is the University's vice president for Enrollment Services. In this role, he oversees the Office of Admissions, the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs, the Enrollment Processing Center, the Office of Institutional Research and the Student Employment Office. Prior to being named vice president in 2018, Williams held several positions at the University, including Senior Associate Vice President, Interim Senior Associate Vice President and Associate Vice President. Read more about Ryan Williams Faculty Affairs Jamie Winders serves as Associate Provost for Faculty Affairs. In this capacity, Winders partners with Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter and other academic affairs leaders to support key faculty initiatives and advance the University’s vision and mission as outlined in the Academic Strategic Plan. A professor in the Department of Geography and the Environment, Winders was also the founding director of the Autonomous Systems Policy Institute. Read more about Jamie Winders Graduate School Peter Vanable was appointed Associate Provost for Graduate Studies and Dean of the Graduate School on January 6, 2017. He assumed the role of Interim Vice President of Research on January 1, 2016. Vanable is a professor of psychology and adjunct professor of medicine at SUNY Upstate Medical University. Vanable served as chair of psychology for six years, an appointment that began in August of 2009. Read more about Peter Vanable Information Technology Services Samuel Scozzafava is Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer. Sam provides day-to-day leadership and administration of the Information Technology Services (ITS) department, and develops and implements strategies to ensure that ITS is providing central technology support across both the academic and administrative operations of the University. Sam can be reached at 315.443.3814. Read more about Samuel Scozzafava Research Ramesh Raina was appointed Interim Vice President for Research, effective Jan. 7, 2020. He is a professor of biology. Before his appointment, Raina served as Chair of Biology for more than eight years, starting July 1, 2011. He has also been a core faculty member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program since 2009. Read more about Ramesh Raina Strategic Initiatives Marcelle Haddix serves as Associate Provost for Strategic Initiatives. In this capacity, she partners with Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter and others to connect Academic Affairs with the campus and surrounding community. She is the primary liaison to the University Senate and oversees the First Year Seminar and University-wide arts and humanities affiliates and programs. Read more about Marcelle Haddix. Strategic Planning and Budget Roberta “Bobbi” Jones is Assistant Provost for Strategic Planning and Budget. Her primary responsibility is to serve as chief budget officer for Academic Affairs and to serve as advisor to the Vice Chancellor and Provost on strategic planning and initiatives. She can be reached at 315.443.2055 or by mail at 323 Crouse-Hinds Hall, Syracuse, NY 13244. Read more about Roberta Jones Syracuse Abroad Erika Wilkens brings deep international experience to her new role as assistant provost and executive director of the University’s Syracuse Abroad program. In 2010 she was appointed the founding director of the University’s new study abroad center in Istanbul. She led operations at that center until 2017, when the center closed its doors due to political unrest in that region. Read more about Erika Wilkens University Libraries David Seaman is Dean of Libraries and University Librarian at Syracuse University. He leads a talented library staff to deliver the services and collections necessary to drive 21st-century research, teaching, and learning, and to provide innovative spaces for study, collaboration, and innovation. He can be reached at 315.443.5533. Read more about David Seaman Related Pages Academic Strategic Plan The Academic Strategic Plan sets an ambitious vision for the University that builds on its strengths and leverages external opportunity. Chancellor Syverud Kent Syverud is Chancellor and President of Syracuse University. Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees is the governing body of Syracuse University, responsible for the institution’s educational mission and fiscal policies. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy