COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Forensic Sciences, Major MajorForensic Sciences All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Criminal Justice Wichita State's Bachelor of Science in forensic sciences is the only degree of its kind in Kansas. Its combination of classroom and applied learning will prepare you for a high-demand career as a forensic science technician, where you'll assist in criminal investigations by collecting and analyzing evidence. Learn how forensic sciences is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted into the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU's admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The program will help you build a strong foundation in the physical, biological and chemical sciences. You'll also study criminal motivation, criminological theory, basic investigation techniques, adherence to evidentiary rules and procedures, and effective communication. View the curriculum Careers A forensic sciences degree from Wichita State will prepare you to work in virtually any aspect of a forensic investigation—with less pre-service training. Graduates find employment with local, state and federal agencies, and medical, diagnostic and testing labs. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Medical Laboratory Sciences Biochemistry Criminal Justice Criminal Justice (Minor) Homeland Security Anthropology 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©