Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Student Registration Add and Drop Classes in iROAR Add and Drop Classes in iROAR Add and Drop Classes in iROAR 〉 Registration Checklist 〉 Time Tickets 〉 Instructional Methods 〉 Closed Courses 〉 Audit a Class 〉 Withdrawing iROAR Student System iROAR is where students add and drop classes, plan schedules, check grades, view registration holds and apply for graduation. If you experience technical issues, please try another browser. If the error persists, send a screen shot of the error to ithelp@clemson.edu. What classes does Clemson offer? See the Clemson Class Schedule. Use the Advanced Search to return specific class information. You can also view syllabi and instructor files for classes—current and past offerings—in the Syllabus Repository. When can I register? Early registration for Fall 2022 begins April 11. Your specific registration Time Ticket is based on earned hours plus the hours you are currently enrolled in. Undergraduates must enter their PIN to access registration. See detailed information for Course Registration and Registration Plans in the FAQ. Why do I get registration errors in iROAR? Errors pop up in iROAR if you do not meet the requirements or restrictions set for a particular course. See iROAR errors and overrides in the Registration Checklist. Most errors require an override. Override requests should be made to the Instructor or the Registration Coordinator for the course. When and how do I pay my tuition charges? Tuition payments are made in iROAR and due by the posted deadlines or you may incur a $150 late fee and schedule cancellation—you are responsible for rebuilding your schedule in iROAR. You are not guaranteed re-enrollment in any of your dropped classes. Billing and payment information is published by Student Financial Services. They can assist you with any questions or concerns. What if I need help? Refer to Course Registration and Registration Plans in the FAQ. More detailed instruction is available in Student Training Materials. Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation U.S. Veterans Students Registration Registration Checklist Time Tickets Closed Courses Audit a Class Withdrawing Student Records Transferring Credits Admittance Examinations Degree Works Training Materials Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram