Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Nutrition MPH You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Nutrition MPH Apply Request More Info Nutrition MPH Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork and Experiential Learning Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Public Health in Nutrition Acquire in-depth training in the areas of nutrition, dietetics and public health with the Master of Public Health (MPH) in Nutrition in Temple’s College of Public Health. Through this 48-credit, 21-month graduate program, students will become eligible to sit for the Commission on Dietetic Registration’s Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) exam. The curriculum includes a combination of coursework focused primarily in clinical, food service and community nutrition, and hands-on, professional learning in the field. The Nutrition MPH program provides a unique public health lens for improving the nutrition of individuals and communities, particularly in urban settings and populations affected by health disparities. Nutrition is a major component of public health and an important field of study for chronic disease prevention efforts. The Nutrition MPH’s unique curriculum also allows students to develop knowledge and understanding of food science as it pertains to food and nutrition product development and when making modifications to food; food in the development and management of disease; microbiology and food safety; nutrient metabolism and the environmental, social and psychological aspects of eating and food; pathophysiology and nutritional biochemistry in relation to physiology, health and disease; the impact of complementary and integrative nutrition on drugs, disease, health and wellness; and the principles of cultural competence within a professional’s own practice and when directing services. You’ll form a deep understanding of the factors that shape and impact population health through courses that explore topics such as cultural and community nutrition, issues in public health, and the political and economic aspects of health, as well as biostatistics and epidemiology. Graduates will be prepared for positions working in community organizations, hospitals and international nutrition programs, as well as local, state and federal government health departments. What sets apart the Nutrition MPH? A unique curriculum. The program’s innovative curriculum focuses on public health training through experiential learning in the classroom and at sites such as community-based organizations, schools, government organizations and nonprofits. Emphasis on outcomes. The curriculum is specifically tailored so that students who earn the MPH are eligible to sit for the RD exam. Graduates will meet a pressing need for trained public health professionals who can deliver comprehensive nutrition care. Graduates are also prepared to design and evaluate programs that address public health disparities. Distinguished faculty. All courses are led by faculty with expertise in public health and nutrition. Fieldwork placements are coordinated through the College of Public Health’s Office of Clinical Practice and Field Education, which has existing relationships with clinical and community organizations and expertise in developing and cultivating these relationships. Program Outcomes Registered dietitians are uniquely qualified to work in clinical, food service and public health settings. Within the context of disease prevention and treatment, registered dietitians are the only healthcare professionals who receive standardized training in evidence-informed nutrition. Graduates will be prepared for positions that assess the nutritional needs of various community populations; oversee government-funded food and nutrition programs in places such as the American Psychological Association Office on Aging or School Food Service; oversee retail nutrition programs; provide nutritional support for hospital patients; provide nutrition education in health professional programs, such as nursing; provide nutrition information for government-funded programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Education; and provide outpatient nutrition counseling. Program Format & Curriculum The Nutrition MPH program is available in person on Temple’s Main Campus. Students may take up to three academic years to complete the program. The curriculum comprises 18 courses and 1,010 hours of supervised experiential learning in the field. It includes core MPH courses that are required for all MPH students, as well as eight nutrition courses. Students must have completed two semesters of chemistry, two semesters of biology, one semester of organic chemistry, one semester of biochemistry, one semester of anatomy and physiology, and one nutrition course before the start of the program. To provide greater flexibility for students, the program offers a select number of online courses during the summer semester. As students complete their supervised experiential learning in off-campus sites throughout the greater Philadelphia area, summer courses may be offered in an online format to reduce the burden of travel. Students are expected to attend all synchronous, online class sessions and participate in class discussions and activities. Sample core courses you are likely to take as part of the Nutrition MPH curriculum include the following. Cultural and Community Nutrition Medical Nutrition Therapy Nutrition Through the Lifecycle Learn more about required courses within the Nutrition MPH curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Biostatistics MPH Environmental Health MPH Epidemiology MPH Health Policy and Management MPH Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Social and Behavioral Sciences PhD Related Graduate Certificates Clinical Health Services Research Global Health Health Informatics Health Outcomes and Measurement Science Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Public Health offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. For questions regarding the program or admissions requirements, contact the program advisor. Theresa White Senior Graduate Advisor Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Brittany Johnson Nutrition Program Director Email: britt.johnson@temple.edu Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. HP-NUTR-MPH Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Nutrition MPH Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork and Experiential Learning Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info