Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Nutrition Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Nutrition Certificate (Graduate) Request More Info Nutrition Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Nutrition Graduate Certificate Prepare for a career as a nutrition professional with the Graduate Certificate in Nutrition in Temple’s College of Public Health. This 12-credit certificate program provides students with competency-based public health nutrition training, with the goal of becoming informed and advanced nutrition professionals. It is tailored to current registered dietitians who want to develop or expand their skills in public health nutrition, as well as students who wish to pursue a master’s degree in nutrition or other public health graduate degrees. With growing emphasis on individualized medicine and the established link between behavior and health, there is a critical need for dietitians who can address current gaps in care, especially in underserved populations. You’ll receive training on how to address systematic nutrition-related health disparities and how to reach underserved populations, while applying perspectives and information grounded in the fundamentals of nutrition, such as disease prevention, food intake, nutrient absorption and proper food preparation. Additional skills developed through this program include expertise in the management of various diet-based diseases and how to curb the malnutrition and obesity epidemics. What sets apart our Nutrition Graduate Certificate? A unique opportunity for healthcare professionals. Many nutrition graduate certificates are not affiliated with an accredited institution. Temple’s program gives students the opportunity to receive a competency-based nutrition education from an accredited university. A flexible program format. The certificate allows professionals in the healthcare field to take courses as non-matriculated students without committing to a master’s program. With the option to complete courses in the evening or online, this is an ideal program for working professionals. An experienced faculty. As part of the College of Public Health, this certificate program is taught by five faculty members from the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences who have nutrition expertise and backgrounds in nutrition education. Program Format & Curriculum The admissions process you’ll follow depends on if you are applying as a matriculated or non-matriculated graduate student. Please be sure to carefully review the admissions information for this certificate program. The 12-credit certificate can be completed in two to four semesters. There are no prerequisites required for enrollment in the nutrition certificate program. Students can take these courses concurrently with other public health courses or as non-matriculated students. For current graduate students, these 12 credits will count towards the 42 credits required for the degree. Some of the courses in the certificate program include Healthy Psychology; Program Planning, Theory and Practice; and Public Health Nutrition. See the full list of program courses. Careers in Nutrition Graduates of the College of Public Health’s Nutrition Graduate Certificate will be competitive candidates for careers in public health nutrition. With additional research and program implementation training, graduates of this program are qualified for employment opportunities that involve overseeing food, nutrition and health programs; providing nutrition education in community and public health settings; and serving as a public health nutrition researcher. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising to students in each department. All students will receive basic advising regarding course sequencing and schedules of courses in the certificate from the CPH advising infrastructure. Students in the Graduate Certificate in Nutrition can seek program support from Theresa White, senior graduate advisor. Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Pamela Weisberg-Shapiro, program director Phone: 215-204-6086 Email: pamela.weisberg-shapiro@temple.edu HP-NUTR-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Nutrition Certificate (Graduate) Accreditation Admissions Required Courses Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Request More Info