Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Search About Us About Us Diversity and Inclusion Facts and Information History People Virtual Tour Administration Employment Give to Rosenstiel School Mission Rosenstiel Award Contact Us Academic Departments Atmospheric Sciences Environmental Science and Policy Marine Biology and Ecology Marine Geosciences Ocean Sciences Research Centers Projects Publications Research Resources Seminars Students Undergraduate Studies Master of Professional Science Graduate Programs Student Directory Student Resources Apply News & Events Community & Giving Alumni Give to Rosenstiel Events Calendar Frontiers Newsletter Internships and Jobs Outreach Sea Secrets Job and Internship Openings Frontiers Newsletter About Us Academic Departments Research Students News & Events Community & Giving Home Community and Giving Job and Internship Openings AAA Job and Internship Openings GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Visit 3 Apply Here you'll find some currently open job and internship listings for UM students and alumni. For thousands more opportunities, log in to Handshake. For additional career help, check out some of the resources described below. It's never too early to focus on your professional development. Gaining work experience during college is crucial for your future career success! Take a look at the open internship & job opportunities listed below. These employers are looking to hire current students, students who are about to graduate, and/or recent alumni. For even more opportunities, log in to Handshake! Internships Open All Tabs Animals and Wildlife Atmospheric Science Biology Climate Change Data Science Ecology Energy & Renewable Resources Environmental Conservation Environmental Science and Policy Environmental Sustainability Fisheries Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Geological Science Lab Research Marine Science & Affairs Science Communication Science Education Jobs Open All Tabs Animals and Wildlife Atmospheric Science Biology Climate Change Data Science Ecology Energy & Renewable Resources Environmental Conservation Environmental Science and Policy Environmental Sustainability Fisheries Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Geological Science Lab Research Marine Science & Affairs Meteorology Remote Sensing Remote Sensing Jobs on LinkedIn Science Communication Science Education Not seeing what you're looking for? For thousands more openings, log in to Handshake today! What is Handshake? Handshake is a career services platform created for students and alumni to use in their career development. It's used by over 200,000 employers, including all Fortune 500 companies! Thousands of internship and job opportunities are posted on Handshake by employers specifically looking to hire students. All UM students have a Handshake account that is automatically created for them when they enroll at the U. All you have to do is log in to Handshake to activate your account. Handshake will then recommend certain positions to you based on your profile, allowing for easy searching. Completing and updating your profile will provide Handshake with a better idea of which job and internship listings you may be interested in. Here are some of the awesome things you can do with Handshake: Network with recruiters and other students for career insights Need help with career planning? Careers are jungle gyms, not ladders. In other words, there’s no such thing as a perfect, direct career path that’s free of challenges. And no single major leads to one and only one career. But all careers have to start somewhere, and the Toppel Career Center is here to help you navigate your professional development and career-related decisions. There’s no appointment necessary to speak with a Toppel career advisor. Use this link to enter our virtual Drop-In advising Zoom room and get the advice you need anytime Monday – Friday, 8:30am-5pm. Check out Toppel’s website for tons of career resources, events, mentors, and more! University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149-1031 305-421-4000 305-421-4000 Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Rosenstiel School Campus Map UM Campus Map Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices