Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Physics Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Physics Major Apply Visit Request More Info Physics Major Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Physics Major Study the natural world and its phenomena at the most fundamental level with the Bachelor of Science in Physics or Bachelor of Arts in Physics in the College of Science and Technology at Temple University. You will first gain a solid foundation in physics and then focus on more specialized topics. The field includes a broad range of subspecialties, including studies of atoms, macroscopic systems, properties of nuclei, the structure and origin of the universe, and subatomic particles. As part of the curriculum, you’ll also learn elementary principles of other natural sciences, such as astronomy, biology and geology. By the end of your program, you will have gained the ability to analyze physical systems, including data and error analysis, dimensional analysis and radiation detection; effectively communicate your work to others; study physical models using mathematical methods, including coordinate systems, single and multivariate calculus, and vector algebra; and understand fundamental principles of physics and how to apply them outside of the classroom. As a Physics Major, you will have the opportunity to undertake independent studies and research projects with your coursework. Learn more about research opportunities. After graduation, you may pursue a career in industry, research or teaching, depending on whether you have chosen the BA or the BS path. Choosing between the BA and the BS The Physics BS is geared toward students who want to attend graduate school in physics or related disciplines. Those who plan to enter a career in science after graduation are also best suited for the BS. The Physics BA is designed for those who plan to enter a nonresearch career in a field with an important science component. These fields could include environmental law enforcement, management in a high-technology industry, medicine, patent law or sales. The Physics degree program includes a two-semester introductory sequence in classical physics and three semesters of calculus. From that point, students will take intermediate-level courses in a range of topics such as computational physics, mathematical physics and introductory modern physics. Learn more about courses and curriculum for the Physics BA and BS. Related Graduate Degrees Physics MS Physics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Scientific Writing Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,568.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,792.00 per year Our Academic Advisors Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development The Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development in the College of Science and Technology helps you navigate New Student Orientation, advises on specific degree programs and courses, provides post-graduation guidance, and offers peer support. You can also be matched with a qualified student ambassador/ombudsperson who will further assist with degree and academic questions or concerns. Learn more about the Center for Academic Advising and Professional Development's academic advisors and student ambassadors/ombudspersons. Program Contact Contact the following faculty for more information about the Physics BA or BS. Zbigniew Dziembowski, associate professor of Physics, is the program contact for the Physics program. Phone: 215-204-7639 Email: zbig.dziembowski@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Student clubs and organizations in the College of Science and Technology provide opportunities to meet with peers, network with professionals or scientists in your field of study, and learn about internship opportunities. The College of Science and Technology offers 15 major clubs and 12 pre-health clubs for undergraduate students. Enhance your academic study and social life by participating in a club related to your major or interests. Students pursuing a degree housed within the Physics Department may be interested in the following clubs and organizations. The Alliance for Minority Participation in STEM works to increase opportunities for students and help them complete their undergraduate and graduate degrees in STEM fields. Leadership, Education and Development in Science empowers Philadelphia middle school students to take an interest in STEM through mentor-led science experiments. The Physics Club builds a community of students interested in physics through conversations with faculty and volunteer opportunities. Explore the full list of College of Science and Technology student clubs and organizations. Study Away Opportunities Deepen your understanding of your math, natural science or computer science coursework by experiencing firsthand how such disciplines are studied overseas. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Learn more about your options for studying away. College of Science and Technology undergraduate students can also take part in international research. These opportunities include the following external scholarship programs. The Benjamin Gilman International Scholarship provides funding for underrepresented students to study in nontraditional destinations such as Australia and Eastern Europe. The Boren Scholarship Summer STEM Initiative offers undergraduate STEM majors opportunities to participate in a language-intensive program. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research and Temple offer opportunities for students in biology, chemistry and physics programs to work in research groups in Pune, India, over the summer. The Siena Biomedical Research Program provides the opportunity for students to spend their summer working full time in a biotechnology and pathology lab based in Tuscany, Italy. The Sicily Applied Biotechnology Program allows students to learn the biological basis behind the technology used for art conservation and then apply that knowledge in the laboratory and in the field. Learn more about study abroad programs for College of Science and Technology students. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-PHYS-BS Additional Program Information Available as a minor. Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Physics Major Admissions Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info