Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Academics / Interdisciplinary Interdisciplinary Interdisciplinary opportunities at Penn allow students to express their academic creativity and discover new ways of synthesizing information. Dual Degree Students thrive while pursuing more than one Penn degree, finding leadership opportunities and connections as they develop their unique academic journeys. A student pursuing a dual degree will receive two bachelor’s degrees simultaneously, from two separate schools of the University. A student does not have to choose to participate prior to matriculation. Coordinated Dual-Degree, Accelerated, and Specialized Programs Penn also offers distinctive, coordinated dual-degree programs, as well as accelerated and specialized programs. Huntsman Program in International Studies and Business Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. The Roy and Diana Vagelos Program in Life Sciences and Management Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. The Jerome Fisher Program in Management and Technology Students earn a BS in Economics from the Wharton School and a BS in Engineering or a BAS from the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Nursing and Health Care Management Students earn a BS in Nursing from the School of Nursing and a BS in Economics from the Wharton School. The Roy and Diana Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research Students earn a BA from the College of Arts and Sciences and a BS in Engineering from the School of Engineering and Applied Science. Seven Year Bio-Dental Program Students earn a BA and a DDM from Penn Dental Medicine. Digital Media Design Program Students earn a BS in Engineering from the School of Engineering and Applied Science. The Rajendra and Neera Singh Program in Networked & Social Systems Engineering Students earn a BS in Engineering from the School of Engineering and Applied Science. University Minors In addition to minors completed within one school, several interdisciplinary minors combine coursework from Penn’s four undergraduate schools. From urban education to nutrition to American public policy, the options vary. 90 Total Undergraduate Majors Being Pursued Penn Integrates Knowledge The Penn Integrates Knowledge (PIK) initiative attracts professors whose world-renown work bridges multiple academic disciplines. By providing each PIK professor with appointments in two Penn schools, this initiative supports the full breadth and depth of their pioneering work while also building on Penn’s foundational commitment to interdisciplinary research. Penn Integrates Knowledge SNF Paideia Program Created with the generous support of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Paideia Program at Penn is designed to provide undergraduates with the knowledge, skills, and ethical frameworks necessary to be informed, engaged, and effective community members, and to lead fulfilling and integrated personal, professional, and civic lives. It does so through a combination of curricular and co-curricular programming, a University-wide network of dedicated students, faculty, and staff, and collaborations with other Penn programs and organizations. SNF Paideia Program Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top