Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date April 8, 2022 2022-04-08 Media Contact Jill Kimball [email protected] 401-863-5450 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email 42nd U.S. President Bill Clinton to visit Brown for public event on April 26 The former president will join Derek Shearer, former U.S. ambassador to Finland, for a conversation on leadership, global politics in the 21st century, creative writing and more. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Former U.S. President Bill Clinton will visit Brown University for a conversation on Tuesday, April 26, at 5 p.m., as part of an annual lecture series held in memory of the late Brown student Casey Shearer, a Class of 2000 graduate. After an introduction by Brown President Christina H. Paxson, the nation’s 42nd president will join Derek Shearer, Casey Shearer’s father and the U.S. ambassador to Finland during the Clinton administration, for a Q&A session on leadership, politics in the 21st century, creative writing and other topics. Photo courtesy of the Clinton Foundation First elected to the presidency in 1992, Clinton was the first Democratic president in six decades to be elected twice. He led the country to the longest economic expansion in American history, including the creation of more than 22 million jobs. After leaving the White House, he established the Clinton Foundation to continue working on the causes he cared about. Since its founding, the foundation has endeavored to help build more resilient communities by developing and implementing programs that improve people’s health, strengthen local economies and protect the environment. President Clinton, having known Casey Shearer from infancy, was the featured speaker at the memorial service held at Brown in 2000 celebrating Shearer’s life. The annual Casey Shearer Memorial Lecture, hosted by Brown in collaboration with the Goldway/Shearer family, was established in memory of Casey Shearer, a promising young writer and aspiring sportscaster who died in May 2000, days before he was set to graduate from Brown. Previous speakers have included filmmakers Ezra Edelman and Rory Kennedy; Pulitzer Prize-winning film critic Joe Morgenstern; New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman; ABC analyst Cokie Roberts; NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson; food activist Curt Ellis; and writer Pico Iyer, among others. The conversation will be preceded by a presentation of the annual Casey Shearer Memorial Awards for Excellence in Creative Nonfiction. The April 26 event will take place at 5 p.m., both in-person on the Brown campus and on the web via a livestream. The in-person event is free and open to the public, but advance registration is required, and in-person attendees must present a ticket and Brown or government-issued photo ID at the door. Exact location information will be provided upon registration. Doors will open at 4:30 p.m. Attendees must comply with all University COVID-19 policies and protocols in place at the time of the event. For more information, please visit https://policy.brown.edu/policy/covid-19. For tickets and more information, visit www.brown.edu/caseyshearer. News Media Access Media credentials will be reserved exclusively for journalists working on assignment for credentialed professional news organizations. Space is limited, and the University will limit the total number of credentials awarded. Members of the news media who wish to cover Bill Clinton’s visit to Brown in-person must request credentials from Brown’s Office of University Communications no later than 12 noon Eastern on Monday, April 25. Please send requests to [email protected] with the professional news organization’s name along with the journalist’s name, telephone number and email address. For requests that are granted, credentials will be made available for pickup on the Brown campus in advance of the event. About the Casey Shearer Memorial Lecture Casey Shearer died in May 2000, days before he was set to graduate from Brown. The annual Casey Shearer Memorial Lecture, hosted by Brown in collaboration with the Goldway/Shearer family, was established in memory of Casey Shearer, a promising young writer and aspiring sportscaster who died in May 2000, days before he was set to graduate from Brown. Shearer was a vibrant and talented member of the Brown community. An economics concentrator, he also studied Spanish, political science and literature, and helped to revive Brown Student Radio. He was best known on campus as the station’s play-by-play sports announcer and as the author of the weekly sports column “On the Case,” published in the College Hill Independent. Shearer was a member of the economics honor society and received his magna cum laude pin the Friday before he was to graduate. That same day, during a regular pickup game of basketball, Shearer’s heart stopped and he collapsed. Four days later, he died of an undetected heart virus, two months before his 22nd birthday. Shearer was born and raised in Santa Monica, California, where his mother, Ruth Goldway, once served as mayor. He graduated from high school in Finland, where his father, Derek Shearer, an Occidental College professor, served as U.S. ambassador. Prior to the lecture, the winners of the annual Casey Shearer Memorial Award for Excellence in Creative Nonfiction are announced. Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search 42nd U.S. President Bill Clinton to visit Brown for public event on April 26 Open details for 42nd U.S. President Bill Clinton to visit Brown for public event on April 26 Bookmark this Page