Main navigation Search Breadcrumb Content Footer menu Basic info & contact footer Top navigation: Contact, Library account Login Current faculty, student, staff login Subscribed alumni and courtesy user login Library Home Libraries & hours Make an appointment Main Nav 2 Home Help with... helpwith-col-one Access My account Borrowing BorrowDirect+ Alumni access Off-campus access helpwith-col-two Research Guides by topic Services for authors Research data & digital scholarship Tutorials helpwith-col-three Questions & appointments Quick start guide Make an appointment Technology & methods consultants Canvas support Ask a question helpwith-col-four Spaces & tools Find a library space Reserve a space Virtual computer lab Software finder Borrow equipment Libraries libraries-col-one Heading Albrecht Music Library Annenberg Library Biddle Law Library Biotech Commons Chemistry Library Education Commons libraries-col-two Heading Fisher Fine Arts Library Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts Levy Dental Medicine Library LIBRA Library at the Katz CAJS Lippincott Library of the Wharton School libraries-col-three Heading Math/Physics/Astronomy Library Penn Museum Library University Archives Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center Veterinary Medicine Libraries Weigle Information Commons Collections collection-col-one Heading Franklin (search & browse our catalog) Databases & article Indexes BorrowDirect+ (search & browse partner libraries) Research guides collection-col-two Heading Collections by subject Subject specialists Collections development policies Suggest a purchase collection-col-three Heading Special collections University Archives Digital projects Online exhibits News & events news-col-one Heading Penn Libraries News Subscribe to our newsletter news-col-two Heading Exhibits & events Lectures & conferences 30 days of events news-col-three Heading Workshops About about-col-one Heading Strategic Plan 2020-25 Strategic Plan Implementation Locations & hours Social media about-col-two Heading Staff directory Committees Human resources Resources for Libraries staff about-col-three Heading Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Accessibility Policies & guidelines for users Contact us Giving giving-col-one Our approach Our team FAQ Gifts of materials giving-col-two Our priorities Advance Engage Preserve Enrich giving-col-three Your impact Top talent Learning spaces Information resources Programs & outreach Innovations & partnerships giving-col-four Latest news Stories Press releases Penn Libraries in the News Give now Search Breadcrumb Penn Libraries About Exhibits and Events A Collector's Journey into Warhol's Unknown Works Main content Warhol Wednesdays A Collector's Journey into Warhol's Unknown Works Paul Maréchal, Art historian, author, curator Wednesday, June 1, 2022, 5:30-7:00pm Register (attending in person) Register (attending virtually, over Zoom) Andy Warhol's body of work has for decades been best known mainly for his shoe drawings, paintings, and films. Surprisingly, these mediums occupy only about half of his entire creative output. Thanks to the curator, art historian and collector Paul Marechal, the art world is now privy to more comprehensive knowledge of Warhol’s other art practices. Marechal has researched and assembled an expansive collection of Warhol’s work indexed in his publications of Andy's extensive creative output of commissioned works, such as record covers, magazine illustrations, posters, and ephemera - none of which were ever intended for museumgoers. These catalogues raisonnés have significantly contributed to shed new light on the artist’s work and have forced art historians to reevaluate their appreciation of Warhol’s genius. Marechal's fifth collection, Warhol’s textile creations, and his publication on the subject, will eventually lead to an exhibition focusing solely on this aspect of Warhol's work. Born from an intuition, Marechal’s impressive collection and discovery, as well as his publications, reflect how research outside the beaten path can contribute to developing art appreciation and knowledge. Born and raised in Montreal, Mr. Maréchal is an art historian, curator, and author on the work of Andy Warhol. He graduated from Université du Québec à Montréal where he subsequently obtained a Degree of Master of Arts in 1994. While a student he worked at Hôtel des encans de Montréal, a local auction house, where he developed a practical knowledge of art and the marketplace. This experience led to his appointment as the cataloguer of the Paul Desmarais art collection in 1989. In 1993, he became Curator of the Power Corporation of Canada Art Collection, a position he still holds today. A longtime admirer and collector of Andy Warhol, Mr. Maréchal has started his research on Andy Warhol’s printed matter in 1996, at a time when art historians were still evaluating Warhol’s importance and place in XXth art… This research led in 2008 to the first publication: Andy Warhol’s catalogue raisonné of record covers which served as a basis for an exhibition, Warhol Live, presented at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts the same year. This exhibition subsequently toured at three American museums: the de Young in San Francisco, the Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, and the Frist Center in Nashville. It was the first time that the interest and involvement of Warhol in music was explored. Mr. Maréchal has recently completed two more catalogues raisonnés on Warhol’s printed matter. One is devoted to Warhol’s 52 original posters and the second to his 409 magazine illustrations created during his career. These catalogues will also serve as a basis for an upcoming exhibition on Warhol as a graphic artist schedule to open in 2014 at Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. For the last 14 years Mr. Maréchal also teaches a class on Art Market fundamentals at his alma mater. In addition, he has written several articles on this subject. See also Exhibits & events 30 days of events Online exhibits Lectures Publications Registration Warhol @ Penn Again 0 0 0 0 0 0 Footer: Sitemap for navigation Social media Brief footer Penn Libraries Hours Library locations Spaces Workshops Give Footer: Penn Libraries contact info Questions or comments Report accessibility issues and get help 3420 Walnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19104-6206 215-898-7555 Campus Libraries Map University of Pennsylvania ©University of Pennsylvania Admin