Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Frequently Asked Questions: Temple's Multipurpose Facility You are here Home About Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Preferred Name Use Pronoun Use and Gender Identity Temple Thought Leaders Housing & Dining Health & Wellness COVID-19: Keeping Our Community Safe & Healthy COVID-19 FAQ Testing & Tracing Vaccines Academics, Tuition & Aid Temple HEERF III Grant Student Housing & On-campus Life Work-life for Faculty & Staff Faculty Teaching Information Return Scenario Planning Temple Community Health Advisory Group University Communication Vaccination Rates and Active COVID-19 Cases at Temple University International Campuses and Programs City Life Philadelphia Visiting Temple Accommodations Dining Options Religious Services Information FAQs Safety Main Campus and Philadelphia Safety FAQ Contact Temple RAVE Temple Guardian App Community Programs and Research University News Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Campus Life Arts and Culture Clubs and Organizations Housing, Dining and OWLcards Parking and Transportation Safety Student Banking Student Centers Wireless, Computers and Phone Academics Advising and Academic Support Courses and Calendars International Students Libraries Registration, Grades and Books Schools and Colleges Health and Wellness Athletics and Fitness Health and Counseling Tuition and Financial Aid Financial Aid Tuition and Billing Careers and Internships Career Center Internships Student Jobs Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees Presidential Search President University Leadership Board of Trustees Updates Past Presidents 2019 State of the University History & Traditions Russell Conwell Temple Traditions Acres of Diamonds Honorary Degrees Past Honorary Degree Recipients Temple Health News & Media Media Mentions Temple University Wallpapers Temple's Impact Career in Charitable Change Fueled by Temple Experiences Advancing Breast Cancer Research Leaders in HIV Research 21st-century Learning Temple Firsts Paving the Way Medical & Community Support Student Support Contact members of Strategic Marketing and Communications Offices Public Information Facts About Temple Faculty & Staff Resources Working at Temple Calendars and Time Off Holiday Schedule Careers at Temple Human Resources Performance and Training Business Services Catering Exception Policy Double Tree Catering/ Conferences Contact Frequently Asked Questions Trademark Licensing Policy Corporate Responsibility Logo and Graphics Guide Guidelines for Trademark Use The Student, Faculty and Staff Guide to Ordering Licensed Temple Products Becoming Licensed Trademark and Licensing FAQ Where to Buy Temple Gear University-approved Hotels Club Quarters DoubleTree Hotel Hilton Garden Inn Hilton Philadelphia at Penn's Landing Loews Hotel Sonesta Philadelphia The Conwell Inn Campus Services Computers, Email and Phones Conferences and Meetings Health Sciences Center Form Main Campus Meeting Space Howard Gittis Student Center Form Documents & Insurance Facilities and Space ID Cards Parking and Transportation Faculty Resources Calendars, Schedules and Grades Courses and Curricula Instructional Resources Faculty Senate and News Research and Grants Finance and Travel Accounting and Budget Employee Banking and Finance Tuition Remission Travel and Expenses Wellness and Safety Fitness and Health Safety and Alerts Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Data Integrity and Data Verification Unit In-scope Materials Quick Reference Guide Rankings Data Overview and Updates Additional Resources Frequently Asked Questions FAQ: Fox School of Business MBA rankings Enterprise Risk Management Key Terms and Definitions Helpline Frequently Asked Questions Resources Compliance With the Four Pillars Who We Are Libraries Charles Library Multipurpose Facility FAQ What is the history of the project? What stipulations did the trustees include in their resolution related to the stadium and retail project? How is Temple addressing community concerns? Where would the stadium be located? Why is Temple considering a multipurpose facility? Will Temple need to buy land to build the stadium? What will happen to the Amos Recreation Center? How will Temple pay for the stadium? Instead of using this money for the stadium, why not use it for other purposes? How will lighting be handled? How big will the stadium be and how many seats will it have? How will the university handle parking needs? What about tailgating? Will the community have access to the stadium? A group of students and residents called the Stadium Stompers opposes the project. Has the university talked with this group? Last updated: Jan. 18, 2018 What is the history of the project? On Feb. 8, 2016, Temple University’s Board of Trustees authorized the development of preliminary designs and environmental impact studies for a multipurpose retail and football stadium project on the northwest corner of Main Campus. The trustees placed a number of provisions on that approval. Read the full resolution. In March 2016, Temple announced that it selected firm Moody Nolan, well known for its responsive and collaborative approach, to lead design of the proposed facility and identify future opportunities for retail in the multipurpose project. Read the announcement here. Back to top What stipulations did the trustees include in their resolution related to the stadium and retail project? The board’s resolution establishes a number of specifications to be met as the project moves forward, including that: Temple spend no more than $1 million to pursue initial designs and studies to determine how the site can best be used for the proposed complex. (In July 2016, the board authorized an additional $250,000 for further study, particularly in regard to traffic impact. The total allotment for preliminary designs, usage options and feasibility studies was revised to $1.25 million). The university collaborate with community members and government officials to address local residents’ concerns, such as noise, parking and trash. The total budget for the football stadium not exceed $130 million. The overall financing plan for the project have a $50 million fundraising goal. Cost reductions and revenue enhancements from a stadium result in significant net savings. The proposed stadium have a capacity of approximately 35,000 seats (about half the size of Lincoln Financial Field). Back to top How is Temple addressing community concerns? First, by listening. Temple has been talking with residents who live in the North Philadelphia community closest to the proposed site. Temple will continue conversations with neighbors as this project develops. Many of the concerns are about noise, parking and trash. We understand these concerns and continue to gather information to help make sure these issues are addressed. It is Temple’s intention to address both existing concerns with student behavior and the concerns that could arise with a new stadium. In fact, as a result of conversations with residents, the university updated rules on students’ off-campus behavior. Neighbor concerns about noise, trash and students’ disrespect were key to informing these rules, including higher fines for misconduct. The university has instructed stadium designers to minimize the facility's impact when it comes to height, lights and noise. In fact, preliminary plans call for the stadium to be no higher than the adjacent row homes on Norris Street. Every aspect of the stadium experience, from the construction to its day-to-day operations, will be planned and executed with the priorities and well-being of Temple’s neighbors in mind. After looking at other urban stadiums, we are confident we can create designs that take these concerns into account and make this a valuable addition to North Philadelphia. Back to top Where would the stadium be located? The area to be developed is bound by Broad Street on the east; Norris Street on the north; 16th Street on the west; and Pearson-McGonigle halls and the Aramark STAR Complex on the south. It’s within Temple’s existing footprint and owned by the university. Back to top Why is Temple considering a multipurpose facility? There are many reasons why Temple is considering a retail complex and on-campus stadium, including the long-term benefit of owning a stadium instead of renting one. Owning a stadium is anticipated to result in substantial savings. By including a retail component, Temple intends to create a vibrant, pedestrian-focused experience that will benefit students and the community alike. Other components of the multipurpose facility will include year-round classrooms and space for a concussion research center. The multipurpose facility is in keeping with other changes on Main Campus. In recent years, Temple has built Morgan Hall, an acclaimed high-rise residence hall and dining center on Broad Street; a world-class Science Education and Research Center; and new homes for the Fox School of Business, and the Tyler School of Art and Architecture. The new Aramark STAR Complex—an academic, athletics and recreation facility— opened last fall at 15th Street and Montgomery Avenue, and the Temple Sports Complex has been added at the south end of campus. A state-of-the-art library is under construction in the heart of Main Campus. Great universities have great facilities, and a multipurpose facility with retail and a campus stadium would be Temple’s first opportunity to have a true “home game” experience. Back to top Will Temple need to buy land to build the stadium? The university does not need additional land for the project. Rumors that Temple will seek to acquire homes in North Philadelphia or displace community residents for the project are not true. Back to top What will happen to the Amos Recreation Center? Amos Recreation Center, which is owned and operated by the City of Philadelphia, will remain. Back to top How will Temple pay for the stadium? Project funding for the proposed facility will primarily come from private donations and bonds, the latter supported by funds that would otherwise be paid to rent Lincoln Financial Field. Back to top Instead of using this money for the stadium, why not use it for other purposes? Having a venue to play football incurs costs regardless of whether the games are played at Lincoln Financial Field or a home stadium. That allocated money can’t be repurposed. Back to top How will lighting be handled? Engineers will focus on minimizing light and noise impact. A detailed traffic and parking analysis, as well as an environmental impact study, will also be completed as plans move forward. Back to top How big will the stadium be and how many seats will it have? Current discussions estimate an approximately 35,000-seat stadium—about half the size of Lincoln Financial Field. Back to top How will the university handle parking needs? Games or events at the proposed multipurpose facility are intended to be largely pedestrian experiences. With so many students being able to walk to the stadium, there will not be a need for massive concrete lots like those at the Linc. Temple’s community is accustomed to using public transportation, and it’s important to note that the stadium will be serviced by city buses, two stops on the Broad Street Line subway and the Temple University Regional Rail station. SEPTA will also be engaged to discuss the possibility of adding public transportation resources on game days and other strategies to decrease traffic. That said, we continue to review the parking and traffic situation to provide the best recommendations for game days. Back to top What about tailgating? Shifting festivities away from automobiles and onto Main Campus is a high priority. Game-day traditions—alumni tents, social activities for families, the team fly-in, etc.—will be hosted in Main Campus celebration zones modeled on similar car-free tailgates that operate successfully at other universities. The goal is to build a spirit of pride and to give alumni another reason to see the amazing transformation happening at Temple. As is current practice, Temple will not tolerate disturbances in local neighborhoods, and security presence in areas around campus would be heightened on game days. Back to top Will the community have access to the stadium? Just as the Liacouras Center and the Temple Performing Arts Center host athletic events and high school graduations each year, the new football stadium would be able to host Philadelphia’s flagship high-school football games and tournaments, providing a state-of-the-art environment in which to play. Back to top A group of students and residents called the Stadium Stompers opposes the project. Has the university talked with this group? Chancellor Richard M. Englert personally met with the leaders of the group and heard their concerns during the summer of 2017. Back to top Go back to AboutMore in Campus Development Frequently Asked Questions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.