Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content About SMU Administration Administration Board of Trustees President 21st Century Council Provost Dean, SMU Libraries Dean, Cox School of Business Dean, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dean, Dedman School of Law Dean, Lyle School of Engineering Dean, Meadows School of the Arts Dean, Moody School of Advanced & Graduate Studies Dean, Perkins School of Theology Dean, Simmons School of Education & Human Development Director of Athletics Chief Investment Officer Vice President, Business and Finance Vice President, Development & External Affairs Vice President, Executive Affairs Vice President, Legal Affairs Vice President, Student Affairs SMU Facts SMU Facts Academic Offerings Administration Campus Profile Intercollegiate Athletics Location & Facilities Prominent Alumni Rankings & Recognition Student Life Undergraduate Costs Maps & Directions Maps & Directions Accessibility Building Addresses Campus Map Directions to SMU Download & Print Maps Parking at SMU SMU-in-Taos Strategic Plan Annual Report Contact SMU ☰ 2019-20 Annual Report AboutSMU Annual Report Letter from the President Letter from the President Looking back on the past year, I am struck by the contrast between the extraordinary generosity and accomplishment in the fall and the extraordinary difficulties the pandemic brought us this spring. The commitment, character and grace – all hallmarks of SMU – that made the fall historic are also what sustained us through the spring and will keep us moving forward. The year began with two landmark gifts – one to the Cox School of Business and the other to create the Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. Both made SMU history. These commitments promise to strengthen the academic landscape of SMU for generations to come. Other gifts fueled research, education and community impact that are more important than ever. As you will read in these pages, Mustangs continue to make the world a better place. We are also in the midst of a pandemic. Yet, despite COVID-19 and its effects, SMU stands strong in numbers, percentages and statistics. We are weathering the pandemic better than many universities in large part because of our strong Mustang community and because of you, our loyal supporters. When the city ordered a shelter-in-place this spring, we transitioned our students from in-person courses to virtual learning. When we decided to provide in-person instuction during July term, we formulated a plan with guidance from scientists and our local government and successfully welcomed Mustangs to the Hilltop. When Commencement had to be canceled in May due to COVID-19, SMU did what we do best – we developed a creative solution and invited May 2020 graduates back to campus in August for a safe outdoor ceremony. The next week, we were thrilled to welcome almost 1,100 of our graduating students back – in person and virtually – for fall term. This year also provided opportunities for SMU to address important societal issues on the Hilltop. SMU’s Black student organizations, alumni board, staff and faculty came together as the Black Unity Forum to raise concerns and offer an action plan for ways the University can address equality, diversity and inclusion on campus. We will continue to listen as we build and execute this action plan that addresses the unique needs of SMU’s Black community. We have work to do, but Mustangs never shy away from a challenge. I am continually inspired by our community. Whatever changes come, we are ready to greet them with ingenuity and forward-thinking. Pony Up! R. Gerald Turner President Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share