Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international programs Cadet Xuan “An” Nguyen (left) is an astronautical engineering major at the U.S. Air Force Academy. (Photo/Josh Armstrong) Story by Ray Bowden U.S. Air Force Public Affairs U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY, Colo. – An astronautical engineering major at the U.S. Air Force Academy said the school’s international programs strengthen relationships between the U.S. and its allies. Cadet Xuan “An” Nguyen attends the Academy as the first cadet from Vietnam’s Ministry of National Defense to be enrolled in the Secretary of Defense Four-Year International Cadet Program. “The program brings different perspectives from different countries to the American cadets and gives the international cadets exposure to American culture,” he said. The Four-Year International Cadet Program allows appointees from foreign nations to attend the Academy from basic cadet training through graduation. An is the first Vietnamese citizen to be enrolled in the program and one of 60 international cadets from 30 different countries enrolled at the Air Force Academy. “Two years at the Academy went by so fast,” he said. “I can see myself as a basic cadet like it happened yesterday.” These days, An’s work revolves around his Astronautical Engineering curriculum and training freshman and sophomore cadets. He’ll be a flight noncommissioned Officer this summer, training the Academy’s latest crop of basic cadets. Nyugen describes his cadet peers as “friendly, talented and smart.” “I received a lot of help in both military and academics from cadets in my squad which made me assimilate more easily into the new environment,” he said. “Some of them show great interest in my culture and I am elated to show and explain it to them.” An said he’s enthusiastic about his astronautics studies, motivated by a lifelong interest in exploring space. “The main reason I chose astronautics is to go back to Vietnam and develop a space program,” he said. “For me, astronautics is not only an engineering field but a field of the future. Astronautics is the next step of development for human beings and I want to be part of it.” An hopes to earn a post-graduate slot after graduation. “I love my major, want to learn more about it and understand it on a higher, more insightful level.” An said he leads a rewarding social life at the Academy. He’s a member of the Cadet Entertainment Club hosting morale, welfare and recreation events for the cadet wing, often taking cadets off the installation. “The state of Colorado is pretty,” he said. “It’s completely different scenery from where I grew up, which is a mountainous area but more humid and green. I enjoy going off base, especially getting Vietnamese food with my friends.” Lt. Col. Christopher Kean, director of the Academy’s Office of International Programs said he’s excited to see An succeed at the Academy. “I know he will continue to do amazing things in the space arena after he graduates,” Kean said. “His character and talent is indicative of the quality of all cadets participating in our international programs. As an Academy graduate myself, I am proud to be associated with a group of cadets who are proof of our strong relations with our partners. I look forward to seeing him walk across the graduation stage in 2024″ Cadet Xuan “An” Nguyen (upper right) and other cadets enrolled in the U.S. Air Force Academy’s jump program pose for a group photograph. An attends the Academy as the first cadet from Vietnam’s Ministry of National Defense enrolled in the Secretary of Defense Four-Year International Cadet Program. (U.S. Air Force Academy photo) Older ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s Class of 2022 Share General Audience Vietnamese citizen takes part in DOD, Air Force Academy international... Continue Reading this article General Audience ‘Power of partnerships’: SECDEF gives commencement speech to AF Academy’s... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Space The Breakdown: Stats on the Air Force Academy’s class of... Continue Reading this article Graduates, Space ‘Two services, one Academy’: AF Academy, Space Force teamwork make... Continue Reading this article General Audience, Parents, Prep School 171 cadet-candidates graduate from Academy’s prep school Continue Reading this article Research, Space Innovation at the Academy: It’s like riding a bike Continue Reading this article General Audience, Graduates, Parents, Research Democratizing innovation: Cadet says Air Force Academy research is for... Continue Reading this article General Audience Cadets experience operational Air Force at Cannon ABF, NM Continue Reading this article ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.