Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Home About People Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Research Find a Study News Site Navigation Home About Our History Our Mission People Core Faculty Affiliated Faculty Adjunct Faculty Research Staff Administrative Staff Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Core Faculty Trainers Affiliated Trainers Current Fellows Alumni - 2016 to present Alumni - 1989 - 2015 Application Benefits/Stipend Research Alcohol HIV/AIDS Prevention Health Disparities/Health Equity Marijuana & Other Drug Use Nicotine Find a Study Alcohol research studies HIV research studies Marijuana research studies Tobacco research studies Studies for adults Studies for teens News Didactics As part of the training program, fellows must be engaged in full-time research training, participate in weekly course work and seminars, define a training plan and achieve specific competencies during the year. Course Work Course Work There are two formal courses offered as part of the CAAS training program. Each course takes place at CAAS Friday afternoons during the fall semester. The courses are scheduled in a recurring two-year sequence. 1) Psychosocial and Pharmacologic Treatment of Substance Use Disorders Treatment and other intervention strategies are reviewed in this course. Prominent substance abuse treatment modalities are selected and a seminar is devoted to each treatment. As part of this review, the knowledge base upon which the treatment modality rests is critiqued, as well as the important research questions to be addressed concerning the treatment modality. 2) Etiology of Substance Use Disorders: Genetic, Neurobiological, Behavioral, and Cultural Influences It is important that Fellows acquire a more general knowledge base regarding substance abuse and dependence beyond that confined to treatment. The training faculty have identified particular substance abuse specialty areas to be of particular relevance to alcohol and substance abuse treatment/intervention research. All Fellows need to have a working familiarity with these areas, irrespective of their own areas of particular expertise and interest. While these areas change over time, at present the most crucial are: epidemiology, neurobiology of addiction, genetics, co-occurring conditions, social/environmental influences, social learning models, and special populations. Background lectures are provided on these topics, led by faculty who are experts. T32 Core Seminar Series T32 Core Seminar Series The T32 programs of the Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior (DPHB) and CAAS combine efforts to produce a comprehensive research seminar series each academic year. The seminar series is coordinated by faculty representatives from each of the T32 programs. All T32 and F32 fellows are required to attend. There are multiple advantages to this combined seminar series. First, each Fellow is regularly exposed to the larger community of research trainees and faculty in the Brown community. Second, the breadth of experience of the larger faculty group allows more detailed exploration of diverse topical areas than could be provided by the faculty of the T32 progress alone. Third, the faculty can be more efficient in their teaching by eliminating duplication of effort across the training programs, and thus be available for more individual interaction with trainees. There is a strong commitment by senior research faculty to teach, encourage, and assist in any way possible research trainees, so that the important scientific work conducted by the Department continues to flourish. Four distinct areas are covered in this seminar series: Grantsmanship, Research & Design Methods, Special Topics in Statistics, and Ethical Issues in Research. These seminars are described below: 1) Grantsmanship: Consistent with the program’s emphasis on the importance of funded research, a number of sessions of the core seminar series are devoted to the logistics and mechanics of obtaining grants. These include an overview of types of NIH grant mechanisms, sources of non-Federal funding, the process of submitting a grant, the NIH review process, and an introduction to the basics of grant writing. 2) Research & Design Methods: These sessions cover basic concepts and principles of methodology in clinical research, as well as several "design by example" sessions. The didactic sessions cover such topics as specific design issues in treatment research, measuring therapist adherence and competence, therapist effects, strategies for sample recruitment and retention, sample size and power determination, data management, basic computer methods for research management, and the uses of qualitative versus quantitative methods. 3) Special Topics in Statistics: This series provides fellows a chance to work on applied problems in statistics, and each year follows a semi-workshop format tailored to content requests from seminar participants. There are two bi-annual topics, which are taught with applied examples using both SPSS and SAS. a) Advanced Topics in Regression Analysis: This six week biostatistical seminar series covers advanced issues in regression modeling. Specific topics include: regression diagnostics, dummy and contrast coding, statistical mediation and moderation, power analysis, and longitudinal extensions, such as Generalized Estimating Equations. b) Multi-level Modeling for Longitudinal Data: Basics and Applications: This six week biostatistical seminar series covers basic concepts and applied issues in multi-level modeling. Specific topics include: iterative model specification, assessment of model fit, time variant and invariant covariates, and power analysis. 4) Ethical Issues in Research: Case-based discussions are led by members of the training faculty, and occasionally by outside experts. A minimum of 12 different sessions are provided and required over the two years of training. Topics covered during year one include: safety monitoring/withdrawal/ DSMB; internet research; the use of placebos in research; recruitment' coerced samples, and intellectual properties. Alternating years deal with topics including diminished capacities; authorship; misconduct in science; conflict of interest; peer review, and minors in research. Mentored Grant Writing Each postdoctoral fellow will gain hands-on experience assisting with all aspects of the preparation of an NIH grant application, with the Primary Research Mentor as lead investigator. This process will familiarize the Fellow with the submission process from start to finish as a mentored training experience. Grant Writing Seminars Preparation of an individual grant proposal for submission to NIH or an appropriate foundation is another key component of each Fellow's training plan. Each Fellow works one-on-one with his or her supervisor, and presents his or her research plans at weekly research discussion group meetings. Sessions are devoted to analysis and feedback on grant proposals as they are developed by fellows. Each component of the proposed research is reviewed and critiqued by assigned training faculty, 2nd year fellows, and the Fellow's individual faculty supervisors. Study aims, significance, preliminary studies, and methods of study are written section-by-section, and rewritten following the critiques. At the culmination of this experience, each Fellow completes an entire application that is presented to faculty and fellows, simulating an IRG. Faculty members and fellows with pertinent expertise are chosen to serve as primary reviewers of the grant. Following the oral presentations, a discussion occurs where the Fellow and the reviewers engage in dialogue directed at assisting the fellow in improving his/her application. Professional Society Meetings It is expected that Fellows will attend and participate in national meetings of alcohol and substance abuse research specialty societies. As the Fellow's own research reaches completion, it is also expected that the Fellow will make presentations of his/her research at these meetings. Some funding is available to support conference attendance. Postdoctoral Training Didactics Diversity People Application Benefits/Stipend Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies Brown University Box G-S121-5 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-6600 Fax: 401-863-6697 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top