HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation ABOUT FAQ CONTACT US Report Hazing Clemson University Hazing Policy Clemson University's core values are Integrity, Honesty and Respect. Hazing is not consistent with these core values. Therefore, all Clemson University community members/organizations are expected to refrain from hazing. (See Clemson University Student Code of Conduct, Section V.A.16). Hazing is any situation created or action taken - for the purpose of initiation, admission into, affiliation with or as a condition for continued membership in an organization - which meets one or more of the criteria below. Hazing can be intentional or unintentional, and can occur with or without consent. Hazing is also any act that meets the definition of hazing contained in South Carolina Code of Laws section 59-101-200. (See http://www.scstatehouse.gov/code/t59c101.php) For information on the Clemson University Hazing Policy and the South Carolina state law on hazing, please visit: https://www.clemson.edu/studentaffairs/student-handbook/safety-policies/hazing.html Report Hazing IF INCIDENT IS OCCURRING IN REAL TIME If you are actively witnessing a hazing incident or emergency situation, please contact 9-1-1 or the Clemson University Police Department at 864-656-2222. Report anonymous using Rave Guardian App – this allows you to text with CUPD discreetly if you cannot make a call. IF INCIDENT HAPPENED RECENTLY OR YOU RECEIVED INFORMATION ABOUT AN INCIDENT Per the Clemson University Student Handbook, anyone may submit a complaint against a student or student organization for misconduct. This complaint can be submitted in writing or electronically to the Office of Community and Ethical Standards (OCES). You can learn more about OCES here. You may report an incident online using the Incident Report Form. The Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life and OCES take all reports of hazing seriously. OCES investigates all allegations of hazing that are reported. In order for OCES to investigate successfully, it is important to provide the name of the individual/organization and as many details of the incident as possible. INFORMATION THAT IS HELPFUL IN REVIEWING A HAZING REPORT Date, Location, and Time (as specific as possible) Name(s) of Individuals or Organizations involved Alleged behavior(s) Any photographic, video, or text evidence that may support the report Any relevant contact information for individuals with direct knowledge or involvement You are able to report anonymously, but reporting anonymously without the above information will limit the University’s investigative process. Hazing Resources Rave Guardian (allows for discreet communication with emergency personnel for active emergencies) Anti-Hazing Hotline: https://fraternallaw.com/help-us-stop-hazing HazingPrevention.org: https://hazingprevention.org Stop Hazing: https://www.stophazing.org Hank Nuwer: https://www.hanknuwer.com/ Gordie's Call: https://gordiecenter.studenthealth.virginia.edu/ Anti-Hazing Coalition: https://www.antihazingcoalition.org/ CONTACT DIVISION OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 202 Sikes Hall, Clemson, SC Copyright 2020 Webmaster