Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Human Sciences Menu Search TTU Human Sciences College of Human Sciences Connect With Us. As one of the four original colleges at Texas Tech University at its founding, the College of Human Sciences (COHS) has a rich history of investing in students, preparing them to make an impact on the world around them. The College of Human Sciences provides multidisciplinary education, research, and service focused on individuals, families, and their environments to improve and enhance the human condition. When they graduate, our students are making an impact as educators, health care professionals, financial planners, hospitality managers, fashion merchandisers, designers, counselors, and nutritionists. Faculty, staff, and students advance research concerning individual, social, and economic development in a multidisciplinary environment to benefit families and individuals in a diverse global community. Outreach is also provided to individuals, organizations, and communities to help improve the society in which we live. Meet the Dean With experience as both a graduate student and longtime faculty member, Dean Dodd has been a part of the evolution of the College of Human Sciences at Texas Tech for over 30 years. Learn More COVID Response The College of Human Sciences and Texas Tech have adopted new practices and policies that foster organizational resilience and best position the university to effectively sustain the academic and research missions while protecting public health and safety. Learn More Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The College of Human Sciences is committed to providing a safe, welcoming, and inclusive community for all. Because there remain barriers to fully equal treatment and opportunities, we must work diligently to promote diversity, provide equal opportunities, and achieve equitable treatment. Learn More The College of Human Sciences prepares you for a successful career. Our degree programs offer superior opportunities that help you maximize your potential. You will: Earn a degree with influence. Many of our programs rank among the nation's best in their field. We have a strong reputation among employers and graduate schools, so our degrees will help you take the next step in your education or career. Work with prominent faculty. You will take courses from experts who stand out for their achievements in research, professional practice, and education. Get a hands-on education. Our degree programs emphasize practical experience in workplace settings outside the classroom, enabling you to build confidence, skills, and professional contacts. Learn in state-of-the-art facilities. Our world-class research labs, production facilities, and design studios are equipped with professional-grade tools and capabilities. Serve the community. While earning your degree, you will have many opportunities to help ordinary people—patients, customers, students, and others—in Lubbock and beyond. Our degree programs empower you to make a difference in the lives of others. If you want to help people find happiness, health, and fulfillment, the College of Human Sciences has a degree program for you. Build a successful career with an undergraduate degree or graduate degree from the College of Human Sciences. Students from our degree programs have outstanding rates of job placement and graduate school admissions. All of our undergraduate degree programs include a professional internship, summer job placement, or other work experience that often leads directly to a job offer. Employers target College of Human Sciences students and recruit them aggressively. Our faculty care about your success and go the extra mile to help you start your career. The College of Human Sciences has an active, loyal, and widespread alumni network that is eager to help new graduates find their niche. Contact the College of Human Sciences Office of the Dean Phone: (806) 742-3031 Student Advising Phone: (806) 742-1180 Recruitment and Visitor's Center Phone: (806) 742-1941 Webmaster Make a Lasting Impact Your gift to the college matters. Your generosity ensures our continued growth and our ability to improve the human condition locally, nationally, and globally. Make a Gift to the COHS News Texas Tech University - Costa Rica Graduates Inaugural Class The graduating class from the new campus had six graduates, all representing the College of Human Sciences. Students to Participate in Spring 2022 Commencement Texas Tech will hold its spring commencement ceremonies May 13-14 at United Supermarkets Arena. Commencement Schedule Announced for Spring 2022 Graduates Texas Tech to hold its spring commencement ceremonies May 13-14. College of Human Sciences Like College of Human Sciences on FacebookLike College of Human Sciences on Facebook Follow College of Human Sciences on twitterFollow College of Human Sciences on twitter Subscribe to College of Human Sciences on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Human Sciences on YouTube Follow College of Human Sciences on FlickrFollow College of Human Sciences on Flickr Follow College of Human Sciences on InstagramFollow College of Human Sciences on Instagram Connect with College of Human Sciences on LinkedInConnect with College of Human Sciences on LinkedIn Address College of Human Sciences, Texas Tech University, P.O. Box 41162, Lubbock, TX 79409-1162 Phone (806) 742-3031 Email hs.webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 20, 2022 8:26 AM College of Human Sciences About College of Human Sciences About Back The College College of Human Sciences About The College Back Directory Meet the Dean Dean's Office Staff News & Media Diversity, Equity & Inclusion E-Viewpoints Newsletter Internal Insights Organizational Chart Strategic Plan Emergency Planning Map to CoHS About Lubbock Support Units College of Human Sciences About Support Units Back Centers, Institutes, & Research Clusters Academic Advising Development Office Office of Marketing & Communications Research Office Technology Services Majors & Academic Programs College of Human Sciences About Majors & Academic Programs Back Community, Family, & Addiction Sciences Department of Design Family & Consumer Sciences Education Health Professions Hospitality & Retail Management Human Development & Family Sciences Human Sciences Nutritional Sciences Personal Financial Planning Connect with Us College of Human Sciences About Connect with Us Back Contact News & Media Alumni - Share Your Story Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Students College of Human Sciences Students Back Admissions College of Human Sciences Students Admissions Back Request Info Schedule a Visit Apply Now Undergraduate College of Human Sciences Students Undergraduate Back Advising Majors Health Professions Career Options by Major Minors & Certificates Online Degrees Experiential Learning Opportunities Student Safety Resources Campus Resources Meet your Ambassadors Student Organizations Graduate College of Human Sciences Students Graduate Back Prospective Current Resources Degree Options Online Degrees Graduate Certificates & Minors Student Organizations Student Safety Resources Scholarships & Financial Aid College of Human Sciences Students Scholarships & Financial Aid Back Undergraduate Graduate Study Abroad Scholarships Accepting a Scholarship Scholarship Office Faculty & Staff College of Human Sciences Faculty & Staff Back News & Resources College of Human Sciences Faculty & Staff News & Resources Back Virtual Teaching Resources Resources Policies & Procedures Internal Insights News & Media College Directory Research College of Human Sciences Research Back Research, Centers, & Institutes COHS Research Office Alumni & Giving College of Human Sciences Alumni & Giving Back Alumni College of Human Sciences Alumni & Giving Alumni Back Share Your Story E-Viewpoints Newsletter Alumni Profiles Distinguished Alumni Giving College of Human Sciences Alumni & Giving Giving Back Make a Gift to the College Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index