Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus Emily Aronson, Office of Communications May 26, 2022, 12:18 p.m. Students gather before Shabbat dinner at Princeton’s Center for Jewish Life. Princeton has had a University-sponsored kosher kitchen on campus for more than 50 years, and today the kosher dining hall is a popular spot for Jewish and non-Jewish students to eat daily meals and celebrate special events. Photo courtesy of the Center for Jewish Life For more than 50 years, Princeton’s kosher dining hall has served as a community-gathering space where Jewish and non-Jewish students are welcome for daily meals, holidays and celebrations. Princeton’s first kosher kitchen was located in the former student social club in Stevenson Hall. Archival images courtesy of the Center for Jewish Life Princeton was one of a few schools in the country to open a University-sponsored kosher kitchen on campus in 1971, then located in the former student social club Stevenson Hall. When the Center for Jewish Life (CJL) opened in 1993, kosher dining and Hillel social and religious programs came together in one building for the first time. Today, the CJL dining hall is a popular campus spot, given its homey atmosphere, its proximity to humanities, social sciences and engineering buildings, and its “famous” chocolate chip cookies. The kosher kitchen exemplifies the many dining and dietary options available to Princeton students, including halal, vegan and allergen-free foods. “Thanks in part to its central location on Washington Road, its leadership and its active campus partnerships, the Center for Jewish Life is an integral hub in the lives of Princeton students from all backgrounds,” said W. Rochelle Calhoun, vice president for campus life. Dining is among the social, educational, religious and spiritual services provided by the CJL. Class of 2023 member Lindsay Getraer said the dining hall is a warm, welcoming place. “Weekly Shabbat meals are like big family dinners,” she added. The kosher dining hall is supervised by the Orthodox Union and is part of Campus Dining, meaning that anyone with a Princeton meal plan can eat there. It serves 20 meals per week during the academic year -- breakfast, lunch and dinner — to hundreds of students. The dining room is often packed at lunch and also hosts special themed meals, like Superhero Shabbat where students and staff dress as their favorite Marvel or Avenger character. “The kosher dining hall every day attracts Jewish and non-Jewish students for meals and ensures that students who keep kosher have a home at the heart of campus,” said Rabbi Julie Roth, who has served as executive director of the CJL and Princeton's Jewish chaplain for more than 17 years. Roth has announced she will step down June 30 and Rabbi Gil Steinlauf, Class of 1991, has been named as the next executive director. Roth said Shabbat dinners are particularly special, with Jewish students often bringing friends to experience the Friday evening ritual. “Everyone comes together to take a break from the busy week, sing the blessings as a community, line up for matzah ball soup, and thank the incredible kitchen workers,” Roth said. “That energy was handed down to our students from the previous generations who made Stevenson Hall so special.” Soon, the CJL’s main kitchen and dining facilities will be renovated and expanded thanks to a gift from Class of 1957 graduate David Mandelbaum and his wife, Karen Mandelbaum, as part of the University’s Venture Forward campaign. The Mandelbaum Family Dining Pavilion will allow CJL to better serve a student population that has increased significantly since the center opened nearly 30 years ago. “We are so proud that the Mandelbaum name is forever linked to the center, in a new facility that will both nourish Princeton’s Jewish community and be a gathering place for the entire student body,” Roth said. While not all Jewish students keep kosher, those who do find it essential to have kosher dining on campus. “The Center for Jewish Life and the dining hall were big factors in why I picked Princeton,” Class of 2020 graduate Oriel Farajun said during his recent visit to campus for Reunions. “The food is incredible and the cooks and staff are wonderful — when I came back, I went straight to the kitchen to give them all big hugs.” In addition to the CJL dining hall, students have the option to have a kosher meal transported to their residential college dining hall. Chabad at Princeton, founded in 2002, also hosts holiday and Shabbat meals at its building on Edwards Place. The establishment of Princeton’s first kosher dining hall in 1971 exemplified the growth of and increased support for Jewish students on campus. Before then, students kept kosher food in their rooms or ate off campus. “I was a member of Stevenson Hall during my entire time at Princeton, from 1981 to 1985,” Class of 1985 graduate Joshua Rawson recalled. “The fact that Princeton had opened a University-owned kosher dining facility, integrated within the overall dining system spoke volumes to me about the University’s commitment to kosher and traditional Jewish students.” Rawson said he appreciated that the former Stevenson Hall was a place where all students could gather. “We were part of the overall dining and social system,” Rawson said. “Princeton was a leader in this respect, and in the years since many other universities have followed this approach and similarly integrated their kosher dining facilities into the overall dining system. For me, one of the most important legacies of Stevenson is the respect, creativity and courage that Princeton leadership showed in finding a way to meet the particular needs of kosher Jewish students in ways that uplifted and enhanced and sought to not marginalize.” Decades later, Jewish and non-Jewish students continue to come together for meals and community-building on Princeton’s campus. University Advancement Communications contributed to this story. Related Stories Campus gathering mourns victims of synagogue shootings in Pittsburgh Read more Task force recommends ways to improve residential college dining Read more Princeton’s Muslim Life Program celebrates more than a decade on campus Read more Renovated Campus Club to become new gathering place for students Read more Pieces in place for final phase of four-year college system Read more Groundwork laid for Campus Club to roll out the welcome mat this fall Read more Chew on this: Examining racial identity one literary bite at a time Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice