Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Visitors WELCOME TO THE U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY We’re short on air, but not on views. Located just north of Colorado Springs, at the base of the Front Range, our campus sits on 18,500 acres of breathtaking mountain panoramas. The youngest of five military service academies, we boast stunning mid-century modern architecture, state-of-the-art Division I athletic facilities, and unparalleled academic research centers. Here 4,000 exceptional young men and women from across the United States become future leaders in service to our nation. Whether you’re a first-time visitor or a repeat guest, we hope to make your visit memorable and inspiring. Our visitor resources include important details for getting on base, business hours, and places of interest. Explore the campus using our convenient self-guided tour or visit us through our incredible virtual experience from the comfort of home. Take advantage of the Colorado outdoors using our handy trail guide or by taking part in ample fishing and hunting activities. Bringing the whole family? Our scavenger hunt, Instagram-worthy photo spots, and frequent furry visitors will keep the kiddos on their toes. Let’s get you on your way… VISITOR RESOURCES Visitor Center 2346 Academy Drive U.S. Air Force Academy CO 80840 Open daily from 9 am to 5 pm (719) 333–2025 visit@afacademy.af.edu Visitor Center Campus Map Getting on Base Places to Eat Planetarium Cadet Chapel EXPLORE THE CAMPUS Virtual Tour Self-Guided Tour Facilities OUTDOOR ACTIVITIES Hiking & Biking Trails Fishing Hunting CHILDREN'S ACTIVITIES Scavenger Hunt Top Insta Spots Wildlife FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS What is the weather like at the Academy? Weather in the entire Pikes Peak region is often unpredictable, with temperatures and conditions varying quite drastically between the surrounding Colorado Springs area and the Air Force Academy campus. Wind gusts on the Academy’s terrazzo area are not to be reckoned with! We recommend checking the weather before your visit and staying prepared for both warm and colder weather by bringing water, sunscreen, sunglasses, hats, and jackets. Click here for seven-day weather forecast. What is the altitude at the Air Force Academy? Our cadets are particularly fond of their Academy ‘altimeter check’: “Sir/ma/am, my altitude is 7,250’ above sea level, far, far above that of West Point or Annapolis.” In fact, our terrain can go as high as 9,000 feet in elevation at the Farish Recreation Area. Basic cadets spend several weeks acclimating to this altitude during the first part of Basic Cadet Training. What are the signs of altitude sickness? Colorado visitors and newcomers may experience symptoms related to altitude sickness until their bodies adjust to lower oxygen pressure. Symptoms include headache, dizziness, nausea, shortness of breath, tiredness, insomnia, and loss of appetite. You can combat altitude sickness by following four simple steps: Stay Hydrated: Fluid loss often accompanies the acclimatization process, so drinking three to four quarts of water per day will help you stay hydrated. Don’t overexert yourself: Colorado is, quite literally, breathtaking. We recommend not jumping into strenuous activity right away. Light activity during the day is better than sleeping because respiration decreases during sleep, exacerbating symptoms of altitude sickness. Avoid alcohol and tobacco: Alcohol can depress respiration during sleep, and tobacco products can decrease lung capacity. Avoiding alcohol and tobacco may reduce symptoms of altitude sickness. Eat a high-carb diet: Starches, bread, fruits, and pasta are a great energy source for high altitudes and cold environments, helping offset altitude sickness symptoms. Are there accommodations for guests with limited mobility? The Air Force Academy is highly committed to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 ensuring a visit to the Air Force Academy is a safe and welcoming experience for all guests. Please note that the Academy does not issue handicapped parking passes. Individuals should bring their own state-issued handicapped parking pass with them to access handicapped parking in the Cadet Area, Visitor Center, Planetarium, and Falcon Stadium. The Academy does not provide wheelchairs or other medical equipment, with exception of wheelchairs which are available for use within the Visitor Center. Does the Academy provide certificates for Boy Scout and Girl Scout achievements? Yes we do. We have fillable certificates for both Eagle Scout and Gold Award recipients available that can be filled out and printed for your scout to display. Where are public restrooms located? Public restrooms are available at the Visitor Center, Arnold Hall, Planetarium, Doolittle Hall, and the Cadet Field House. ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.