Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Innovative Learning “There are so many opportunities to incorporate technology in the classroom to enhance how faculty teach and how students learn. It is not about employing technologies simply as bells and whistles. It requires thinking hard about what we want students to learn and how technology can help achieve that.” Rebecca Graves-Bayazitoglu Director of the McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning The McGraw Center is at the heart of efforts to integrate innovative educational technologies into the academic experience. The center encourages the exploration of new media and digital tools in and around the classroom to encourage active, collaborative and creative learning. Learn More Princeton Online The University’s initiative in online education benefits students on campus and around the world. We enable faculty to enrich their teaching to undergraduate and graduate students at Princeton, while sharing free course content with interested learners outside the University. More than one million students have enrolled in the many free noncredit courses (or MOOCs) that Princeton faculty have offered online through the University’s partnerships with Coursera, edX, NovoEd and Kadenze. Learn More Flipped Classrooms In the course “A History of the World Since 1300,” the professor records his lectures online for students to watch at their own pace, freeing up class time for in-depth discussions and global history labs. The class is one example of how some Princeton faculty use online tools and other multimedia resources to “flip” their classroom so students stay active and engaged with the material, and have more time for robust in-person interactions and collaborative projects. Learn More The Council on Science and Technology The Council on Science and Technology (CST) inspires and prepares all undergraduates, regardless of their majors, to become scientifically and technologically literate citizens and decision-makers. It supports intellectual exchange, course development, and interdisciplinary research and collaborations in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Learn More StudioLab . StudioLab, a part of CST, brings together students, faculty and staff to explore the creative intersections across science, technology, engineering, mathematics, the arts, humanities and social sciences. It is a highly customizable space with a dance floor, motion capture, theater lighting, sound system, 3-D printer, laser cutter, and virtual reality and projection equipment. Learn More 'Transformations in Engineering and Arts' . This CST class explores creative processes that are common to art and engineering, breaking through disciplinary boundaries. Students have designed a device that allows visually impaired people to experience color and built a robot to interpret the movements of a dancer, among other creative collisions. Learn More Play video: Play Video: Teaching with technology: The possibilities of learning More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice