Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Research Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Research News From basic laboratory science to clinical trials that test new drugs, researchers at KU Medical Center are making discoveries that improve the health of Kansans and our world. Read up on our latest research findings. Featured Research News KU Medical Center part of study introducing new immune-profiling method using DNA from blood Long COVID examined in national study as first trial participants enroll at KU Medical Center KU Clinical Research Center celebrates decade of investigational science See all news Featured Research News KU Medical Center is part of a national clinical trial designed to determine the long-term effects of COVID-19 and to understand why some adults develop long COVID and others do not. Read More Latest Research News Read about the most recent discoveries and advancements from the research community at KU Medical Center. Filter by Category Select a "from" date. Select a "to" date. May 9, 2022 COVID-19 vaccine effective in people receiving cancer treatment, study finds About 95% of participants achieved a measurable immune response after vaccination, according to study led by a KU School of Medicine professor and published in JAMA Oncology. May 2, 2022 Study seeks to pinpoint perfect mix of physical activity for better aging and brain health The five-year, NIH-funded COMET clinical trial is the largest of its kind to compare aerobic, resistance training or a combination of both while looking at cognition in older adults. April 19, 2022 Hoglund Biomedical Imaging Center upgrades scanning abilities with $1.5 million NIH grant Equipment upgrade provides cutting-edge resources to researchers across the region February 9, 2022 KU Medical Center part of study published in Nature introducing new immune-profiling method using only DNA from blood The method offers a powerful alternative to conventional flow cytometry based on blood DNA rather than intact living cells February 7, 2022 Long COVID examined in national study as first trial participants enroll at KU Medical Center The study, part of the NIH Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery (RECOVER) Initiative, is designed to determine the long-term effects of COVID-19 and to understand why some adults develop long COVID and others do not. January 26, 2022 KU Clinical Research Center celebrates decade of investigational science The University of Kansas Clinical Research Center (KU CRC), a dedicated clinical trials facility with support from a Johnson County sales tax, celebrates it's 10 year anniversary. December 17, 2021 Receiving CAR-T therapy sooner improves lymphoma survival, according to study published in New England Journal of Medicine Axicabtagene ciloleucel, known by the brand name Yescarta, is significantly more effective than the current standard of care in treating people with large B-cell lymphoma who relapse after the first line of treatment. December 16, 2021 Let’s hit the highlights: news to know from 2021 The pandemic continues, but so does research and education. November 22, 2021 Senators Moran and Blunt welcome NIH’s Dr. Rutter to KU Medical Center to visit the clinical and translational science institute, Frontiers Along with leaders from Frontiers, Children’s Mercy Kansas City and the University of Kansas Medical Center, the group discussed how to adapt or “translate” medical research into useful treatments for patients. November 9, 2021 New consortium for polycystic kidney disease research brings scientists together A symposium, held virtually Oct. 27-28, allowed scientists to learn about, and share, the latest research in PKD. October 28, 2021 KU alumnus Barney Graham named Federal Employee of Year for vaccine research Barney Graham, the architect of Moderna and Pfizer vaccine, is honored in a Washington, D.C. celebration. October 14, 2021 Researchers find that older adults who are regular avocado consumers have better cognitive abilities Want to preserve your memory as you age? Reach for an avocado. September 28, 2021 Research at KU Medical Center explores effects of obesity on health and COVID-19 For people who are overweight, obese or excessively obese, the threat of COVID-19 looms large. So, University of Kansas Medical Center researchers are testing obesity as a variable in a clinical trial and continuing research on obesity in general. August 31, 2021 KU Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center receives $15 million and second renewal as one of 31 nationally designated centers by the National Institute on Aging Renewal of five-year grant will provide funding for the KU Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center through 2026. August 25, 2021 Study published in NEJM shows breakthrough drug can benefit more people with cystic fibrosis Trikafta can provide additional benefit for CF patients who have genetic mutations that made them eligible for previously approved CFTR modulators. August 20, 2021 International panel of experts releases first consistent guidelines for protecting bone health of childhood cancer survivors These guidelines will help physicians make informed decisions with patients by understanding their individual risks and outlining a plan for their care. August 4, 2021 Early trial results indicate Yescarta CAR-T therapy improves survival for adults who relapse from large B-cell lymphoma The study evaluated a one-time infusion of Yescarta compared with standard of care in patients who had relapsed or had refractory LBCL after frontline treatment. July 22, 2021 Dementia researchers issue urgent call for more diversity in clinical trial participation The KU ADC looks to increase diversity across all its numerous studies with a goal of making African Americans and Latinos at least 20 percent of the trial's participants across all sites. July 1, 2021 Study to assess post-vax COVID-19 antibodies in people with cancer Research looks to understand the safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccine in individuals receiving immunosuppressive and cytotoxic treatments. June 18, 2021 Clinical trial network aims to speed up development of effective treatments for rare type of muscular dystrophy The FSHD CTRN, an international network of academic research centers, uses the expertise and infrastructure of its members to streamline clinical trial research. April 29, 2021 Massive negative impact of COVID-19 on cancer screenings quantified in KU Medical Center faculty study published in JAMA Oncology The University of Kansas Cancer Center is calling for public attention to this issue to prevent cancer deaths. April 9, 2021 $4.2 million grant awarded for breast cancer chemoprevention study Leading the multi-site clinical trial, Carol Fabian, M.D. and her team plan to enroll 120 women ages 45 to 60 who are at increased risk for breast cancer. February 18, 2021 Clinical Trial Finder app launched by KU Cancer Center A new mobile application created by The University of Kansas Cancer Center allows anyone to identify potential clinical trials right here at KU and quickly communicate with the clinical trials team. February 11, 2021 New COVID-19 outpatient treatments including pill, injection and inhaled medicine part of clinical trial at KU Medical Center Three new outpatient treatments will be tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center in efforts to broaden options for COVID-19 patients. These new treatments may make it easier to receive COVID-19 treatment outside a hospital, as they include an oral pill, an injection and a medication that can be inhaled through a home nebulizer. January 12, 2021 Two new monoclonal antibody outpatient treatments for COVID-19 target older people and those with additional medical conditions Two new monoclonal antibody treatments for outpatients with COVID-19 are being tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Known as BRII 196 and 198 and produced by Brii Biosciences, these investigational treatments are both monoclonal antibodies designed to block the ACE receptor. December 7, 2020 Bench science steps into the spotlight during the pandemic Adam Rouse, M.D., Ph.D., an assistant professor and director of basic research in the Department of Neurosurgery, sees basic science emerging as a key player in the fight against the pandemic December 4, 2020 KU Cancer Center is a contributor to 49 research studies at international hematology society meeting Researchers from The University of Kansas Cancer Center are involved in the presentation of nearly 50 research studies at the 62nd American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting. November 25, 2020 Women in academic medicine remain less likely to be promoted, according to KU Medical Center study in NEJM Female physicians are more likely to pursue careers in academic medicine than their male counterparts but are less likely to be promoted to senior faculty and leadership positions, and that gender gap is no narrower than it was 20 years ago, according to a study published by researchers at KU Medical Center in the NEJM. November 19, 2020 KU Cancer Center researchers discover men fighting both cancer and COVID-19 at higher risk than women Men with cancer and COVID-19 may be at significantly higher risk for severe symptoms and even death as compared to females fighting both, a University of Kansas Cancer Center research team has found after reviewing multiple studies. November 18, 2020 KU Medical Center awarded Medical Science Training Program grant from the NIH The physician-scientist training program at the University of Kansas Medical Center, which enables students to earn both a medical degree and a doctoral degree in a biomedical science, is now recognized as one of the most prestigious such programs in the country. November 18, 2020 Space and gravity society honors KU Medical Center researcher for his reproductive research The American Society for Gravitational and Space Research (ASGR) recognized Joseph S. Tash, emeritus professor of molecular and integrative physiology at the University of Kansas Medical Center, with its prestigious Founder’s Award. October 21, 2020 American Lung Association picks KU Medical Center as research hub for COVID-19 The Airways Clinical Research Centers Network (ACRC), the research arm of the American Lung Association, named the University of Kansas Medical Center a consortium hub. The change will give KU Medical Center the responsibility to mentor and lead other universities in its group in lung-health research, including COVID-19 research. October 7, 2020 NIH-funded effort seeks to improve COVID-19 testing in underserved communities across 10 Kansas counties The University of Kansas Medical Center has been chosen to receive a grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) through the RADx-UP program to support projects designed to rapidly implement COVID-19 testing strategies in populations disproportionately affected by the pandemic. September 22, 2020 KU Medical Center to participate in clinical trial designed to speed the testing of COVID-19 outpatient treatments The University of Kansas Medical Center will be participating in a unique nationwide clinical trial that will allow for the testing of multiple agents to fight COVID-19. Known as ACTIV-2 (Adapt Out COVID), this trial is part of the Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines effort announced by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) this spring. September 18, 2020 ‘Big data’ helps KU Medical Center researchers figure out some of nursing’s toughest challenges Faculty at the University of Kansas School of Nursing are taking a unique look at the value of nursing by combining electronic health records, human resource records and other data to measure the effects of nursing on pain management. August 24, 2020 Pilot grants launch new research projects to fight COVID-19 pandemic "These awards provide our investigators with opportunities to move quickly toward developing research programs aimed at COVID-19 mitigation and treatment." --Peter Smith, Ph.D., senior associate vice chancellor for research, KU School of Medicine August 10, 2020 Pioneering geneticist Merlin G. Butler, M.D., Ph.D., keeps pushing the boundaries of science Pioneering geneticist Merlin G. Butler, M.D., Ph.D., keeps pushing the boundaries of science July 29, 2020 University of Kansas Medical Center and Children's Mercy to offer clinical trial of AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 The University of Kansas Medical Center and Children's Mercy Kansas City announced that they will be leading the regional efforts of a nationwide clinical trial brought through the COVID-19 Prevention Network to test the COVID-19 vaccine AZD1222, developed by Oxford University and purchased by AstraZeneca. June 11, 2020 Lab in KU Medical Center incubator switches to coronavirus test to meet community need A private laboratory operating on the campus of the University of Kansas Medical Center conducts COVID-19 tests. Its founder says it's a service to his community. June 2, 2020 New Frontiers pilot awards support COVID-19 research Frontiers: University of Kansas Clinical and Translational Science Institute has awarded three pilot grants to scientists studying COVID-19. May 7, 2020 KU Cancer Center pivots to protect patients and trial participants in COVID-19 era Cancer patients undergoing treatment at The University of Kansas Cancer Center don’t have to worry about getting a test for the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. The research arm of the KU Cancer Center stepped up to allow patients to opt-in to a study that provided the test in recent weeks and also covered its cost. It is just one of the many ways the KU Cancer Center is working to fight the pandemic. April 14, 2020 Students share results of research at Capitol events Five undergraduate and five graduate students from the University of Kansas Medical Center showcased their research at the Kansas Capitol during two separate events in spring 2020. Students discussed the posters illustrating their research with lawmakers and the general public. April 13, 2020 University of Kansas Medical Center to participate in clinical trial of hydroxychloroquine in health care workers The Healthcare Worker Exposure Response and Outcomes of Hydroxychloroquine (HERO HCQ) trial is accompanied by a registry that will create a community of health care workers who have expressed interest in contributing to the scientific community's understanding of the impact of COVID-19. April 1, 2020 SHARPhub helps bring biomedical technologies to market in Kansas and four other central states SHARPhub was established in 2018 to help researchers move biomedical discoveries and technologies out of the laboratory and into the commercial market, where they can be used to improve human health. March 31, 2020 Cancer Center receives additional $5 million in funding from state of Kansas to support ongoing research The University of Kansas Cancer Center will receive an additional $5 million from the state budget for the KU Cancer Center Research Fund, approved by the Kansas legislature and signed by Governor Laura Kelly. These funds will be crucial to the KU Cancer Center’s competitive application for National Cancer Institute (NCI) comprehensive cancer center designation. March 10, 2020 KU Cancer Center researchers identify breast cancer prevention drug with fewer daunting side effects Women with a high risk for breast cancer can be prescribed drugs to help reduce their risk of cancer, but many don’t take the drugs because of their problematic side effects.Researchers at The University of Kansas Cancer Center have identified a drug that may keep the preventive punch but lessen the strong side effects. March 5, 2020 Owens leading psychiatry department’s new clinical trial research Dennis Owens, MD, PhD, leading psychiatry department’s new clinical trial research February 13, 2020 Drug affecting high cholesterol from genes, not lifestyle, shines in clinical trial Individuals who have an inherited condition that gives them high cholesterol regardless of diet or other lifestyle issues might one day benefit from the new drug APO(a)-I, which was tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center by Patrick M. Moriarty, M.D. Results were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in January 2020. January 17, 2020 Researchers from KU School of Medicine publish four articles on elusive actin protein Dr. Prachee Avasthi, assistant professor of cell biology, and her team have published four scholarly articles on actin protein and how it affects cell cilia. This basic science may help with disease research in the future. January 8, 2020 New clinical and translational science research unit opens A new research unit that will greatly expand the capacity for scientists to conduct clinical trials opened at the University of Kansas Medical Center on Jan. 13. It is the first clinical and translational science unit (CTSU) on the main KU Medical Center campus in Kansas City, Kansas. December 23, 2019 7 news stories that shaped 2019 Check out the memorable news stories of 2019 at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Our year in review gives you a look back at the best of 2019. December 12, 2019 Losing weight is study and practice at KU Medical Center weight management clinic The University of Kansas Center for Physical Activity and Weight Management conducts nationally funded studies based on weight loss and activity and also has an award-winning fee-for-service weight loss clinic. October 31, 2019 NEJM publishes clinical trial results leading to cystic fibrosis breakthrough KU Medical Center was one of the sites of a phase 3 trial that led to the approval of the drug, known by its brand name, Trikafta, by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on October 21. October 15, 2019 All of Us visits campus, seeking volunteers for nationwide study The All of Us Research Program visited the University of Kansas Medical Center as part of its quest to collect biomedical data from 1 million individuals across the United States in the next 10 years. January 24, 2019 KU’s Department of Occupational Therapy Education celebrates 75 years The Department of Occupational Therapy Education at the University of Kansas Medical Center has developed a national reputation of excellence for educating its students to become therapists who provide essential assessment and support skills that empower their patients with physical or mental disabilities to engage in everyday life activities. Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.