Skip to Content Menu Search Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Close Main menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Secondary Menu Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Other ways to search: Events Calendar Campus Map Mobile menu Home About Academics Admissions Research Visit COVID-19 Updates Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Sensing for sustainability From efficient farming to drought resilience, remote sensing could be key. Engineering students and faculty are examing how to use the power and promise of remote sensing to help solve food supply, pollution and water scarcity problems around the globe. Read Full Story in CU Engineering Magazine Campus Highlights CMCI instructor uses sewing to empower LGBTQ youth It’s been unusually windy this spring. Here’s why you should care Students, staff, others honored for diversity work More News Stories on CU Boulder Today Student Stories Our students have a way of creating their personal journey. Whether leading research projects, finding ways to creatively address social issues or learning to navigate the college experience, there’s no limit to their potential. CU music Buffs among ‘composers and performers to watch’ The Washington Post published an article that listed “22 composers and performers to watch in 2022.” The list of classical musicians included two CU Boulder College of Music students. Architecture student creates clothing company to spread positive message Travis Weis, a third-year architecture major from Denver, created Release The Mind to help spread positivity through clothing that aims to simultaneously support the community and environment. Engineering students study the mechanics of snow Most mechanical engineers will work with materials such as metals, polymers, ceramics and composites during their careers. However, a course taught in CU Boulder's mechanical engineering department asks students to draw inspiration from another material—snow. Campus Events Home Apply for Admission Visit Campus Support CU Boulder Get Help Safety & Health Services Campus Communications Emergency Alert System New Student & Family Programs Getting Around Campus Map Campus Events Parking & Transportation Visit Information Information for Faculty & Staff Families Journalists Initiatives Business & Industry Collaborations Diversity & Community Engagement Free Speech Innovation & Entrepreneurship International Students Public & Outreach Programs Sustainability Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Pinterest University of Colorado Boulder © Regents of the University of Colorado Contact Us • Privacy • Legal & Trademarks Accessibility • Student Consumer Information • Policies • CU Boulder Jobs Download the Clery Act Annual Security & Fire safety report, or request a paper copy from the CU Boulder Police Department. Return to the top of the page