Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open accessibility options and information panel Accessibility Options: Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Switch to High Contrast See Global University Search and Navigation Visit University Homepage University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search Miami.edu Search Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Miami.edu Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Return to Homepage Open the Main Menu Search Search Undergraduate Degrees, Majors and Minors Undergraduate Curriculum Academic Experience Student Experience Career and Professional Development How to Apply Visit Us Contact Us Graduate Find and Compare Programs MBA Specialized Masters STEM Programs Online Programs Doctoral Programs Financing Your Degree Graduate Experience Career & Networking How to Apply Contact Us Executive Education Online Spanish & Portuguese Programs Our Approach Fast Immersion Modules Partnerships Results Certificates & Boot Camps Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty Directory Academic Departments Academic Seminars Business Conferences Research Labs, Centers, and Institutes News Events Miami Herbert Lecture Series The Herbert Huddle Podcast Upcoming Events About About What We Stand For At A Glance Meet The Dean Life At Miami Herbert Leadership Request Information Visit Apply Contact Us Student Network Student Network Graduate Career & Networking Alumni Network and Mentorship Recruiters, Employers, and Industries Recruiters and Companies Partner with Us Undergraduate Graduate Capstone Projects Talent Development Corporate Associates Program Alumni Alumni Alumni Give Back Alumni News Get Involved Mentor a student Info For Current Students International Students Working Professionals Faculty & Staff Recruiters and Companies Apply Request Info Visit Resources for Current Students Know the tools and resources at your fingertips to make the most of your time at Miami Herbert. Home Current Students From the Blackboard Course Management system and Academic Bulletin to information about career services, and student clubs, Miami Herbert Business School is here to provide you with the tools and resources you need to make the most of your business education experience. View the separate sections for newly admitted, first-year students, undergraduate students, and graduate students for resources and services unique to each. Incoming Students' Road to UM First-Year, welcome to the 'Cane Family! To ensure a smooth transition to your new life as a Miami Hurricane, please read the information below. Registration Instructions for Incoming, Fall Start Students Miami Herbert Business School 5202 University Drive Merrick Building, Room 104 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4641 undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu ADVISING The Miami Herbert Business school team is eager to welcome you and help you navigate the coming years. You will be assigned a Senior Academic Advisor before you arrive on campus. You can stay up to date with items relating to your progress and communication by contacting a member of the advising team. Your advisor will be your partner in ensuring you have a clear plan for timely graduation. Registering for your first semester at Miami Herbert Business School is simple because the registration advising team will enroll you in the courses you need. As a first-year, fall start student, the advising team will register you in 15-16 credits. A Welcome Packet will be shared with you via UM Email. This packet provides all the information you need regarding your first-semester schedule and relevant information. REGISTRATION Review the recording of the Mandatory Registration Information Session and the Registration FAQ. Check for receipt of Welcome Package If you cannot locate your Welcome Package in your UM email, contact undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu or the Undergraduate Virtual Reception Room. Verify your fall Schedule Verify your schedule is complete per the outlined requirements in the Welcome Package by July 8th. You may access the Miami Herbert Business School Virtual Academic Advising support room, (see your welcome package for login instructions) available from June 2 through July 8th between 3:00-5:00 pm, Monday through Thursday, or email us at undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu LOOKING FORWARD Sign up for one or more SUMMER TALKS sessions A series of sessions that will keep you engaged with Miami Herbert and Prep you for the Fall term. Sign up for ‘Cane Kickoff A week-long welcome that will help you prepare for day 1 of classes. Send in your final AP, IB, CLEP, GCE, and other scores and your final dual enrollment transcripts to the office of Undergraduate Admission. Registration Instructions for Incoming, Spring Start Students Miami Herbert Business School 5202 University Drive Merrick Building, Room 104 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-4641 undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu ADVISING The Miami Herbert Business school team is eager to welcome you and help you navigate the coming years. You will be assigned a Senior Academic Advisor before you arrive on campus. You can stay up to date with items relating to your progress and communication by contacting a member of the advising team. Your advisor will be your partner in ensuring you have a clear plan for timely graduation. Registering for your first semester at Miami Herbert Business School is simple because the registration advising team will enroll you in the courses you need. As a first-year, spring start student, the advising team will register you in 15-16 credits. A welcome packet will be shared with you via UM Email. This packet provides information regarding your first-semester schedule and other relevant information. REGISTRATION Review Spring Start timeline and course evaluation process for summer and fall Preparing for Summer and Fall Classes at another Institution A communication will be shared with you, outlining the steps necessary to complete a course evaluation and approval prior to summer and fall enrollment. Sign up for one or more SUMMER TALKS sessions A series of sessions that will keep you engaged with Miami Herbert. Sign-up for the mandatory registration information session - date TBA in October The Miami Herbert Business School will be communicating the final date of the info session via your UM email. Check for receipt of Welcome Package - date TBA in November If you cannot locate your Welcome Package in your UM email, kindly contact undergraduatebusiness@miami.edu Verify your spring Schedule - date TBA in November Verify that your schedule is complete per the outlined requirements in the Welcome Package. If you have questions you may log into the Miami Herbert Virtual Reception Room, Mondays through Fridays between 9:30 am and 4:30 pm. Undergraduate Students A Miami Herbert undergraduate experience is like no other. Events, competitions, and professors set this program apart. Explore Graduate Students Know the tools and resources at your fingertips to make the most of your time at Miami Herbert. Explore Student Resources Academic Advising & Graduation Policies Academic bulletin for undergraduate students Academic bulletin for graduate students University Honor Code Student Handbook & Forms Graduate school student handbook Class roster forms Student handbook acknowledgement Photo & media release Graduate school forms: Leave of absence, readmission, transfer credit, doctoral defense forms Commencement Website Graduation Policies & Procedures Apply for graduation How to obtain a diploma Alumni Association Current enrollment certification Degree verification Degree audit Video tutorial Instruction handout Academic Calendar Students can add the Academic Calendar for the Coral Gables and RSMAS campuses to their Outlook or Office 365 calendars. View academic calendar Academic & Personal Resources Student Health (Immunication, Insurance) UM Bookstore University Graduate School Richter Library Miami Herbert Information Resource Center Student Access to Wall Street Journal and New York Times Dean of Students office The Herbert Wellness Center (student gym) Wellness Center Opt Out Form The Office of the Registrar How to order a transcript Camner Center for Academic Resources (Disability & Student Accommodations, tutoring) Student Affairs Counseling Services Parking & Transportation Student parking decal How to obtain a CaneCard (Student ID Card) Student Accounts & Payment Plan Resources University tuition remission policy (For UM/Dependents) 'Canes Central (Student Accounts, Financial Aid, Registration) How to submit a case to 'Canes Centra COVID-19 Information & Updates Blackboard The Blackboard Course Management system automatically provides a course web site for every course at the University of Miami. Students and faculty are automatically enrolled in their course web sites. Faculty often use the course web site for posting copies of PowerPoint slides used during a lecture, notes from a lecture, examples of previous exams, grades, links to online material, and to facilitate online, out of class discussions. Access Blackboard CaneLink Students can use CaneLink to search for classes, view course schedules, class rosters and advisees, plus much more. Go to CaneLink Viewing and resolving service indicators (Holds) Video tutorial Instruction Handout UM Information Technology UM Information Technology New to UM links Student Email Set-Up Email for Life (Alumni benefit) UMIT Help Desk WIFI Security (on-campus & off-campus access) MBA Math Virtual Tour Faculty Directory Miami Herbert Faculty Directory International Student Services The Department of International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) provides information, services, acclimation and culturally relevant activities to support international students and scholars and ensure their success. International Student Services Return to Homepage Miami Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive, Coral Gables, Florida 33146 USA Undergraduate MBA & Specialized Masters Doctoral Executive Education Corporate Associates Program News Upcoming Events Lecture Series Business Conferences Media Contact Give Back Current Students Accessibility Contact Us Connect Visit Instagram Visit Facebook Visit LinkedIn Visit Twitter Visit YouTube © 2021 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback