[^] Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More FAQs Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Attendee Portal Login Harvard Chan Home Division of Policy Translation and Leadership Development Programs for Individuals Programs for Organizations News & Resources Request Information About ECPE Executive and Continuing Professional Education > Programs Programs for Individuals Custom Programs for Organizations Creating High Impact Tools to Improve Clinical Effectiveness Improving Health Care Performance Using Lean and the Theory of Constraints Optimizing Value Based Care: Advanced Strategies for Population Health Management Using Evidence-Based Nutrition Science: Achieving Healthier Organizations and Communities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Directory Programs Holds program-specific data. [searchandfilter slug="find-programs"] Leading in Health SystemsActivating Transformational Change Online June 6 – 10, 2022 This online program provides health care leaders the tools and training to lead their organization through the next phases of system adaptation. When the pandemic first hit, there was little choice. Going forward, the choices, decisions, and changes require intentional leadership and step-by step resilience. Now is the time to refresh your leadership and prepare for what lies ahead. Register Now Guidelines for Laboratory DesignHealth and Safety Considerations On-Site June 13 – 17, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA Online June 12 – 16, 2023 This applied program explores the needs of diverse stakeholders to ensure laboratories are safe, free of hazards, ergonomically sound, and environmentally friendly. Guided laboratory tours ensure you leave the course able to apply what you learned to your organization’s facilities and projects. Register Now Emerging Women Executives in Health Care On-Site June 20 – 23, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA This leadership development program focused on women provides you with the skills to lead complex health care organizations. Participating in this course will help you bridge the gaps in your understanding, strategies, and skills, and prepare you for the next stage in your career. Join Waitlist Health Care Project ManagementThe Intersection of Strategy, People, and Process On-Site July 12 – 14, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA This program drives meaningful growth in project leadership abilities for clinicians, administrators and operations professionals in health care settings. It covers project leadership, assessment, planning, initiation, execution, quality control, team-building, management, conflict resolution and communication with stakeholders. Register Now Radiological Emergency PlanningTerrorism, Security, and Communication On-Site July 18 – 22, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA You will gain skills to effectively plan for and respond to radiological emergencies as well as the ability to communicate effectively with the public during a crisis. Register Now Comprehensive Industrial HygieneThe Application of Basic Principles Online August 1 – 5, 2022 Improve employee health, safety, and security with applied industrial hygiene skills. You will benefit from a comprehensive introduction to industrial hygiene and gain skills to protect employees from workplace environmental hazards. Register Now In-Place Filter Testing Workshop On-Site August 8 – 12, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA Prepare to test and certify systems containing HEPA filtration and gas adsorption systems. Learn to operate testing equipment unique to these activities and gain an understanding of regulations associated with nuclear air- and gas-cleaning activities. Register Now Measurement, Design, and Analysis Methods for Health Outcomes Research Online September 12 – 16, 2022 You will learn to design, implement, and analyze health outcomes studies, use outcomes research data for clinical decision making, health care planning, and technology development, and understand the statistical methods used in this research. Register Now Benefit-Cost AnalysisValuing Life and Health Online September 19 – 23, 2022 Learn directly from one of Harvard’s experts on benefit-cost analysis, who will teach you the advantages and limitations of this method, improving your ability to evaluate, interpret, and use the results. Register Now Applied Risk Communication for the 21st Century Online September 20 – 23, 2022 This program will provide state-of-the-science knowledge on designing effective risk communication messages to improve communication, increase trust in your organization, reduce public anxiety about an issue, and help key stakeholders make better decisions. Register Now Management and Leadership Skills for EHS Professionals Online September 26 – 30, 2022 On-Site March 27 – 30, 2023 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA Develop the management and leadership skills you need to bridge the gap between environmental health and safety goals and organizational objectives. You will gain the skills to integrate a culture of safety and sustainability into your organization. Register Now Leadership Development for Physicians in Academic Health Centers On-Site October 2 – 14, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA On-Site October 23, 2022 – November 4, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA Leadership Development for Physicians in Academic Health Centers brings together physicians in administrative positions in academic health centers, who lead a clinical division and report directly to the chair of their department, for intensive and systematic study of the critical leadership and management issues facing academic health centers. Apply Now Scaling Up Mental Health Care Services Certificates of Specialization:Mental Health Leadership Online October 4, 2022 – November 3, 2022 Apply Now Leadership Development to Advance Equity in Health Care Online November 1 – 4, 2022 Traditional medical education lacks training on how the health care system is influenced by racism and how outdated policies perpetuate disparities. This program will teach you how to confront and remediate unfair practices and advance health equity in your community or practice. Apply Now Program for Chairs of Clinical Services On-Site January 22, 2023 – February 3, 2023 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA The Program for Chairs of Clinical Services brings together chairs of major clinical departments in teaching hospitals for intensive and systematic study of the critical leadership and management issues facing chairs, their departments, and teaching hospitals. Apply Now Environmental Health RiskAnalysis and Applications Online February 27, 2023 – March 3, 2023 Learn to assess the human health risks posed by exposure to environmental hazards including chemicals, pollution, and contaminated food. Explore the basics of health risk assessment and discuss applications of risk assessment to diverse problems. Register Now Women on BoardsGetting On and Adding Value On-Site April 27 – 28, 2023 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA This program will put you on the path towards attaining a board position in health care and related industries. You will gain the competencies you need to succeed at being a first-rate board member, prepare for the challenges you will face, and gain direction, tools, and approaches for attaining a seat on a board of directors. Apply Now Principles and Practice of Clinical Research Mix March 24, 2022 – November 3, 2022 Harvard Longwood Campus, Boston, MA This program explores clinical research (including research basics, statistical methods, data collection, and study design) to ensure that participants can conduct clinical trials in an effective manner. By participating, you will become a more efficient and effective clinical researcher. Download a Brochure for this program. Leadership Strategies for Evolving Health Care Executives Develop the health care leadership skills you need to achieve individual and organizational objectives. You will gain skills to lead more effectively, including conflict resolution, operational analysis, employee management, and quality management. Leadership Strategies for Information Technology in Health Care Improve quality, safety, and efficiency through health information technology and gain the leadership skills you need to drive results. You will learn to design an effective health IT strategy and gain the tools to implement this strategy effectively. Click here to subscribe to this program Healthy Kitchens, Healthy Lives Benefit from state-of-the-science research on diet and nutrition and gain selection, purchase, and preparation strategies and techniques for healthy foods and healthy cooking. Please contact the Culinary Institute of America to register or with any questions at http://www.healthykitchens.org/. The International Leadership Development Program for Physicians This program provides focused training in leadership and management, focused on the clinical and operational challenges senior physicians face as executives. By participating in this program, physicians from around the world will develop skills to be more effective and efficient institutional leaders. Click here to subscribe to this program Leading in Health Systems Initiate and implement change in health care by leveraging meta-leadership. You will explore both meta-leadership concepts and the ‘Walk in the Woods’ methodology, a proven method for interest-based negotiation. Foundations of Mental Health Care Online May 3, 2022 – June 2, 2022 This program will focus on understanding the mental health needs of diverse populations, across the life course, from relatively healthy to those who are ill, and from vulnerable groups to the privileged. Preparing for What’s Next in U.S. Health Reform This program will offer key lessons involving health reform under the new federal administration. The nation’s leading health policy experts will explain essential lessons from current reform efforts, anticipate the next round of policy innovations, and offer strategies to thrive in the evolving health care marketplace. Click here to subscribe to this program Ergonomics and Human Factors Improve employee health and safety at your organization through ergonomics. You will be able to identify, evaluate, and control risk factors for work-related musculoskeletal disorders and improve your organization’s ergonomics program. Click here to subscribe to this program Improving Your Business Through a Culture of Health This HarvardX course, presented by leading faculty from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the Harvard Business School, will provide businesses with strategies, tactics, and tools to gain a competitive advantage by implementing a Culture of Health. Learn more or register today. Driving Business Performance: Culture of Health for Executive Leaders This program will benefit individuals seeking to develop or enhance their company’s Culture of Health. Participants will master tools to improve health and well-being across their organization and unleash the potential for greater business performance. Innovating Business Strategies: Culture of Health for Executive Teams This program brings together cross-functional teams of senior leaders that are committed to initiating or growing their organization’s Culture of Health. Participants will build a core team of internal colleagues who form the backbone of their organization’s Culture of Health efforts, driving the strategy and execution of the initiative across functional silos. Global Tobacco Control Learn the most cutting-edge science surrounding tobacco control and the impact of evidence-informed policy strategies. Participants will work closely with others from their global region and have the opportunity to develop a personalized policy memo related to tobacco control. Conflict, Feedback, and Negotiation for Physician Leaders Increase your competence as a physician leader in the critical management areas of navigating conflict, providing feedback, and skillfully approaching negotiations. Health Care Financial Management for Physician Leaders Increase your financial literacy as a physician leader. In this course, you will learn financial management and control, and how to interact more effectively with finance personnel. Applied Artificial Intelligence for Health Care Everything you want to know about AI in health care, but are afraid to ask. Learn the fundamental concepts of AI and how it can support your organization’s strategy and serve your patients. Nutrition Management: Treating Cardiometabolic Disease In this joint program from the Harvard Medical School and Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health leading faculty will discuss the practical nutrition recommendations to provide to patients with or at risk for cardiometabolic diseases, including obesity, diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular, and renal diseases. Click to learn more. Work Health, and Well-being This applied program provides the knowledge necessary to integrate siloed occupational health, health promotion, and health protection programs to improve working conditions, minimize work-related injuries and illnesses, and reduce employee health care-related costs. Harvard Chan Executive and Continuing Professional Education on Twitter Explore topics such as #ergonomics, ventilation, and noise reduction in Comprehensive Industrial Hygiene, taking pl… https://t.co/BdNZzmA9ty As @HarvardChanSPH celebrates its graduates this week at commencement, we wanted to share some recent photos of ECP… https://t.co/1Nmyyb0gCA Only 10 days left to enroll in Leading in Health Systems! Register today to gain the knowledge and tools needed to… https://t.co/NsXlA6vXOI Curious about Measurement, Design, and Analysis Methods for #HealthOutcomesResearch? Download the program brochure… https://t.co/nDTX26bhqf Information For: Clinicians EHS Professionals Academics Executives Gov Employees More Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Executive and Continuing Professional Education 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 617-432-2100 contedu@hsph.harvard.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Harvard Chan Home Harvard University Home Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College