Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Visit UofM Schedule A Tour Virtual Tour Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Visit UofM Department Meetings Campus Visit Open Houses Interested in exploring campus more before or after your tour? We are now offering meetings with select campus departments! Adding an open house or facility tour is the perfect way to make the most of your visit to campus. Please note that we are only able to offer a select number of open houses through our Campus Visit Program, but if you would like to meet with departments that are not listed (or on a different date than offered), you are welcome to set up a meeting with them separately. The admissions office is only able to coordinate open houses listed on our Campus Visit Program registration form. Check out our Frequently Asked Questions to learn more about adding to your campus visit experience! Which open houses can I register to meet with through the Campus Visit Program? We offer open houses below on specific days. See below for our campus meetings offerings by date for the summer (May-August 2022). Mondays Engineering at 11:15am Tuesdays Engineering at 11:15am Business at 11:15am Health Sciences at 12:30pm Wednesdays Engineering at 11:15am Housing at 12:30pm Thursdays Engineering at 11:15am ARMY ROTC at 11:15am Fridays Engineering at 11:15am How do I add a open house meeting during my Campus Visit? Be sure to register for a meeting on the Campus Visit Program tour registration form by clicking the date you will be attending as well as the open houses you want to schedule. You will be sent a separate confirmation for your additional meeting/tour (at least 24 hours prior to your event from the department). How many open houses can I schedule through the Campus Visit Program? You are able to schedule as many as you would like as long as the open houses do not overlap and are all offered the same day as your tour. What can I expect of the campus meetings? You can expect to meet with a representative for about 30-45 minutes to learn more about the department. Feel free to bring a list of questions! If you choose Housing, you will be touring the facility. What if I want to meet with a department that is not listed on the Campus Visit Program registration form? No problem! We only offer a select number of open houses through our campus tour registration, but this does not mean you can’t meet with anyone else on campus. Feel free to reach out to the department directly to set up a meeting. Our 9:30am tour ends at 11:15 and our 1:30pm tour ends at 3:15pm. Browse the list below or search the University of Memphis Directory for your department contact and email to ask for an in-person or Zoom meeting. Be sure to include the preferred date and time, and contact representatives at least one week prior to your visit, preferably earlier! What if the department I want to meet with is listed on the campus tour registration form but not on the date I want to tour campus? Feel free to reach out to the department to request a meeting. Our 9:30 am tour ends at 11:15 and our 1:30 pm tour ends at 3:15 pm. Feel free to search the www.memphis.edu website for your department contact and email to set up an in-person or Zoom meeting. Department Department Contact Visit Contact College of Arts and Sciences Cody Clinton cwsacks@memphis.edu College of Communication and Film Dr. Wendy Atkins-Sayre Wendy.Atkins-Sayre@memphis.edu College of Professional and Liberal Studies Laura Robbins lbrbbins@memphis.edu College of Nursing Dr. Jeremy Whittaker The College of Nursing is not offering any building tours at this time. School of Public Health Debra Bartelli dbrtelli@memphis.edu First Scholars and Opportunity Scholars Jaclyn Rodriguez Jpsavell@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.