COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Interdisciplinary STEM Education, Graduate Certificate Graduate CertificateInterdisciplinary STEM Education All Programs College of Applied Studies School of Education Wichita State's graduate certificate in interdisciplinary science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education is designed for STEM educators and graduate students interested in designing and delivering an interdisciplinary STEM curriculum. You'll build interdisciplinary academic skills in context with an emphasis on real-world problem solving, critical thinking and career readiness. Learn how Interdisciplinary STEM Education is the right fit for you. Contact Coordinator Curriculum The curriculum comprises 18 credit hours and can be individualized based on your interests and teaching goals. View the curriculum Admission to the program There are two paths to admission to the program: For those already enrolled in graduate school, simply complete the Declaration of Intent to Pursue a Certificate Form. Prospective students should apply using the Graduate School application for admission. Graduate School Application Inside the Program From camp to college: Freshman uses past to inspire others When Melissa Rocha was in 4th grade, she attended a summer LEGO robotics camp at WSU. That short time learning about engineering was all she needed to know she wanted to pursue engineering as a career. Melissa is now a biomedical engineering major at WSU and has returned to the camp she once attended to teach and inspire the next generation. Her dream job is to work in prosthetics in Wichita. "It doesn't really matter how smart you think you are. What matters is what you want to do." 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©