Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Search Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Associate Vice President for Research Administration Clinical Research Contact Us Export Control Compliance Office Locations Post-Award Pre-Award Recharge/Service Centers Strategic Initiatives Who is my ORA Contact Person Forms and Rates All ORA Forms Forms by Category F&A Rates Fringe Benefit Rates Institutional Information Compliance Effort Reporting Export Control Compliance Financial Compliance University Research Foreign Influence Guidance Regulatory & Compliance Services Responses to COVID-19 Policies All ORA Policies Award Administration Clinical Research Export Control Compliance F&A Distribution Guidelines Proposal Preparation Recharge Center Policy Research Policies at UM Uniform Guidance Systems IBISResearch Clinical Research (Velos) Conflict of Interest (UDisclose) Effort Reporting (ECC) Greenphire ClinCard Human Subjects (eProst/IRB7) Research Reporting (RRS) Workday Quick Links Agency Links All About Workday Announcements Education and Training Research Road Map ORA Intranet Site ORA Mailboxes Reports and Data Share a Comment Uask FAQs OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps About ORA Forms and Rates Compliance Policies Systems Quick Links Home Quick Links Research Road Map Manage the Award AAA Manage the Award Start Project Find Funding Prepare-Submit Negotiate-Receive Manage Award Close Out Roadmaps During the life of an award, there is no substitute for good practices in tracking and reconciling your transactions. Reconciling Transactions Reconciling transactions on a monthly basis is important to grants management. If you keep good records, are proactive in reconciling your transactions, and prompt in making corrections, your close-out audit should be trouble-free. Being proactive is the key to success. Workday is the official University of Miami’s financial system and will assist in grants management. The Office of Research Administration is the custodian of the Research Reporting System (RRS) which includes the PI Portal. For more information about RRS visit the Systems page. Cost Accounting Standards When a sponsor awards funds to the University in support of specific programs and projects, it requires the University to manage those funds prudently to ensure that any costs incurred directly benefit the project accounts being charged. The Federal Government is the largest sponsor of externally funded activity at the University. The cost principles relating to expenditures on federal awards are contained in the Office of Management and Budget's Uniform Guidance 2 CFR 200. These cost principles require that any expense charged to a federally sponsored project be reasonable and necessary, allocable, consistently treated, and conform to any limits or exclusions set forth in the Uniform Guidance (UG), or the terms and conditions of the award. Anyone approving or processing the expenditure of federal funds must have a clear understanding of the University of Miami’s Cost Principles Policy and apply consistent application of these fundamental cost principles. In addition, individual awards may include special terms and conditions which must be considered when incurring costs. Terms and Conditions in an award which specifically address costs override all related comments in the Cost Principles Policy guidelines document. Consult with the appropriate Contract and Grant Administrator in the Office of Research Administration for more details. Unallowable Costs Unallowable costs are defined as those expenses which are not reimbursable under the terms and conditions of federally sponsored agreements and/or those specifically identified as unallowable in the Uniform Guidance (UG) Subpart E. In the event a discrepancy exists between the UG and those specified within the sponsored agreement, the agreement provisions will prevail. An expense must meet all of the following criteria to be considered an allowable cost: The cost is reasonable: A prudent person would have purchased this item and paid this price. The cost is necessary: The expense is required to fulfill the terms and needs of the sponsored agreement. The cost is allocable: The expense benefits the sponsored agreement or, when the expense benefits more than one activity, an appropriate share can be allocated to individual agreements. The cost is consistently treated: Expenses for the same purpose are treated and classified the same way under like circumstances. The cost is not prohibited: The expense is not specifically prohibited by the Uniform Guidance (UG), the terms of the sponsored agreement or other regulations. If an activity/expense does not meet the above criteria, it cannot be charged directly to a federal award nor can it be included in the indirect cost base regardless of its purpose. In addition, it cannot be used to meet a cost share commitment. Please see the Overdrafts and Disallowances Policy. Budget Revisions During the conduct of the project, the principal investigator may determine that budget changes are necessary. Many sponsors allow flexibility in how project funds are expended and permit budget changes needed to meet project requirements. Principal investigators need to be aware of the specific requirements for their awards and to request prior approval for budget changes when necessary. Revisions to sponsored project budgets that require sponsor prior approval must be reviewed and approved by the Office of Research Administration. Please review the University of Miami’s Rebudgeting Policy. Effort Certification/Reporting The University of Miami’s research enterprise depends on funding from federal and state agencies, private foundations, organizations, and industry. The University's electronic system, Effort Certification and Report Technology (ECRT) is the principal means of verifying that salaries and wages charged to or contributed to a sponsored project are fulfilled in a manner consistent with the award documentation and compliant with the federal regulations for which the University is held accountable. All faculty are required to certify their effort and confirm the effort of all staff on their project in ECRT. It is imperative that effort be certified in a timely manner. (See Effort Reporting Policy). Cost Transfers A cost transfer is any adjustment or transfer of expenditures to/from an externally funded contract or grant purpose/project by means of a journal. Diligent review of financial records and timely communication between principal investigators and departmental administrators should prevent the necessity for transfers; however, under certain circumstances transfers may be appropriate. To comply with the requirements of the Uniform Guidance 2CFR 200, and the requirements of other federal sponsors, the University of Miami has established the following Cost Transfer Policy. A cost transfer for personnel costs is called Payroll Accounting Adjustment or PAA. It is imperative that PAAs be completed in a timely manner and prior to effort being certified in the ECRT system. Program Income Program income means gross income earned by the recipient that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of the award (UG subpart D) during the period of performance. Program income includes, but is not limited to, income from fees for services performed, the use or rental of real or personal property acquired under federally funded projects, the sale of commodities or items fabricated under an award, license fees and royalties on patents and copyrights, and interest on loans made with award funds. If there is program income included for the award, refer to the University of Miami’s Policy on Program Income. For more information about managing your award, visit the Post Award page. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Office of Research Administration 1320 S. Dixie Hwy, Suite 650 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-3871 305-284-3871 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices