ASEF-PSOM The Association of Senior and Emeritus Faculty Homepage Executive Council Executive Council Members Headquarters Minutes 2017-18 Committees History Group Photos Bylaws Calendar of Events Resources Guide to Retirement Communities Get Involved In Memoriam Previous Lectures and Special Events Receptions Contact Us A Message From the President Yvonne Paterson, PhD ASEF-PSOM President, 2020-21 Welcome to the website of the Association of Senior and Emeritus Faculty (ASEF) of the Perelman School of Medicine (PSOM) of the University of Pennsylvania. ASEF was created in the early 2000’s to address three basic needs that were at that point unmet: to provide information to faculty nearing retirement with information useful to this transition, to allow retired faculty a means to remain connected to the School through both social interactions and outreach efforts, and to tap the enormous experience of retired faculty and provide an opportunity for those interested so that they could continue to contribute to the medical school, to the university, and to the community. The organization brings together senior and retired faculty with programs of seminars, lectures, and educational outings, and provides advice and assistance to current and prospective members, in particular on retirement related matters. ASEF works closely with PASEF (Penn Association of Senior and Emeritus Faculty) an organization similar to ASEF but which comprises faculty in the non-medical schools of the University. Joint seminars are particularly popular as they encourage ASEF members to learn about topics outside of their usual field of interest. Who We Are The Association of Senior and Emeritus Faculty of the Perelman School of Medicine (ASEF-PSOM) serves to enhance the careers of the emeritus faculty by encouraging them to remain a part of the community of scholars in the School of Medicine. The Association also serves to support the senior faculty by raising awareness of the full range of retirement options available to them, whether they are planning to retire within two years or two decades. Drs. Bloch and Meadows touring the new hospital. Announcement: Fifteenth Edition of the Hitchhikers Guide 2022 Hitchhiker's Guide to Faculty Retirement 2022 Release Notes Events View More Events Contact Us ASEF-PSOM 292a John Morgan Building 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-4621 | PSOM-OAA@upenn.edu Links of Interest University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine PASEF Office of Academic Affairs (formerly FAPD) UPenn HR Need a PennCard? Penn Directory © The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser. | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: DART Web Team.