Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement Community Advisory Board Community Partners Workforce Development SPH Policies and Guidelines Events Community Partners Brown is all about working together—often across boundaries. Our community partners play a vital role in the educational, research, and service mission of the School of Public Health. AAA Northeast AAA Northeast offers programs and outreach. Visit AAA Northeast American Public Health Association Professional organization for public health professionals in the United States. Visit APHA Blue Cross Blue Shield of Rhode Island Health insurance provider Visit BCBSRI Care New England Our Care New England partners are Butler Hospital, Kent Hospital, and Women & Infants Hospital. Visit Care New England COAAST Creating Outreach About Addiction Support Together Visit COAAST Every Mother Counts Ensuring that women have access to quality, respectful, and equitable maternity care. Visit Every Mother Counts Hebrew Senior Life Helping seniors experience and enjoy their best possible life. Visit Hebrew Senior Life Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital 1200-bed hospital in Ghana Visit Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital Lifespan Our Lifespan partners are Bradley Hospital, Rhode Island Hospital, and Miriam Hospital. Visit Lifespan Meals on Wheels of Rhode Island Meals on Wheels of Rhode Island is the only nonprofit, home-delivered meal program in the state. Visit Meals on Wheels of Rhode Island Moi University Established in 1984 as the second public university in Kenya. Visit Moi University Progreso Latino Helps Rhode Island’s Latino and immigrant communities to achieve greater self-sufficiency and socio-economic progress by providing transformational programs that support personal growth and social change. Visit Progreso Latino The Providence Center Helps adults, adolescents and children affected by psychiatric illnesses, emotional problems and addictions by providing treatment and supportive services within a community setting. Visit The Providence Center Providence Safe Stations The purpose of Providence Safe Stations is to address the overdose epidemic in Providence by providing hassle-free and immediate access to supportive services. Visit Providence Safe Stations Providence VA Medical Center The Providence VA Medical Center provides comprehensive outpatient and inpatient health care to Veterans residing in Rhode Island and southeastern Massachusetts. Visit the VA Medical Center Rhode Island Blood Center Rhode Island's primary provider of life saving blood and blood products. Visit Rhode Island Blood Center Rhode Island Department of Health The mission of the RI Department of Health is to prevent disease and protect and promote the health and safety of the people of Rhode Island. Visit the RI Department of Health Rhode Island Governor State of Rhode Island office of the Governor Visit the Governor's Office Rhode Island Public Health Association The RIPHA brings together professionals in a unique, multi-disciplinary environment for idea exchange, study, and action. Visit RIPHA Rhode Island Public Health Institute RIPHI uses research, best public health practices, and community engagement to develop, test, and share program and policy solutions that improve population health. Visit RIPHI RI Department of Behavioral Healthcare, Developmental Disabilities and Hospitals Serves Rhode Islanders who live with mental illness, substance use disorder and/or a developmental disability. Visit the department Warren Alpert Medical School The Warren Alpert Medical School is a national leader in medical education and biomedical research. Visit Alpert Medical School WLNE-TV Rhode Island's ABC network affiliate. Visit WLNE About By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement Community Advisory Board Community Partners Workforce Development SPH Policies and Guidelines Events School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top