Skip to main content Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search University of Oregon Sites Search Site Navigation Academics Majors & Minors Graduate Programs International Students En Español Study Abroad Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Resources for: Parents Faculty/Staff Alumni Request Info Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University of Oregon Main navigation Academics Research Admissions & Financial Aid Duck Life About Spring 2022 Academic Initiatives Update Main menu Majors & Minors Graduate Programs International Students En Español Study Abroad Academics ACADEMICS Programs of Study It’s your move. Accounting, biology, or architecture. Explore environmental studies and geography or mix material and product studies, philosophy, and economics. With more than 300 undergraduate programs and more than 80 graduate subject areas, we can help prepare you for life. And a lifetime of careers. Explore Majors Undecided on a Major Graduate Programs Schools and Colleges College of Arts & Sciences The academic heart of the university, we bring together hundreds of top-notch faculty who are committed to both path-breaking research and mentoring the next generation. Charles H. Lundquist College of Business We are serious, determined, focused, and hands on. But we are not your typical business school. We are a place that does not shy away from societal issues, but tackles them, solves them. College of Design A unique academic ecosystem, the College of Design comprises not only creative practitioners—artists, architects, and designers—but also social scientists, humanities scholars, engineers, economists, biologists, planners, and policy makers. Using diverse methods, we are engaging critical questions and tackling complex problems. College of Education Teacher education? Of course we do that, but we also train administrators and counselors. School psychologists and family therapists. Human service providers and clinicians. Robert D. Clark Honors College The Clark Honors College features small classes and close interaction among students and faculty. We foster an intense, creative exchange of ideas in a tight-knit, dynamic community. School of Journalism & Communication We teach students the power of storytelling through ethics, innovation, and action in journalism and communication. We are inventing the future of media, transforming “What If? into “What Is!” School of Music and Dance We are the premier educational institution of music and dance in the Pacific Northwest. We offer programs in music performance, music education, composition, and choreography-performance. School of Law A professional law school with a drive for positive change, we thrive on faculty and student engagement, a commitment to solving problems, helping people, and groundbreaking research. Graduate School Over one hundred graduate options available. Master’s and doctoral degrees. Certificates and specializations. Empowering students to take their education and careers to the next level. The Place for Green The University of Oregon leads the nation in finding creative solutions environmental challenges. We rank No. 3 in the nation in sustainable design according to DesignIntelligence. The Oregon MBA is the No. 4-ranked "Green MBA" in the country by the Princeton Review. We invented green chemistry, which uses chemistry research to build more environmentally sustainable products and makes science labs more environmentally sustainable. And our Sustainable Cities Initiative lets students work with cities across Oregon to bring environmentally sustainable solutions to urban planning. And, when the environment needs a lawyer? The Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center in the School of Law is ranked No. 8 in U.S. News and World Report, and has consistently ranked among the leading environmental law programs in the U.S. for 14 years. One of the Best at Teaching Teachers U.S. News and World Report ranks our College of Education in the top five nationally, and it ranks our special education program No. 3. Our faculty members are also leading researchers, and the UO is ranked second in the country for research money per professor. At the UO, we teach, learn, research, and find a better way. A Leader in Graduate Study The UO ranks in the top 20 (or top 20 percent) nationally in such varied fields as creative writing, education, environmental law, landscape architecture, psychology, sports marketing, sustainable business practices, and many more. Highly Ranked The UO is a great place to study all kinds of things. Our highly ranked programs include: anthropology, biology, comparative literature, geography, earth sciences, physics, psychology, sustainable design, and special education. Academic Resources Learning extends way beyond the classroom—and so does our support. Our academic support programs and services include: Support Services First-Year Programs » Accessible Education Center » University Counseling & Testing Center » International Student and Scholar Services » Study Help and Tutoring Teaching and Learning Center » UO Libraries » Mills International Center » Library Research Guides » Academic Advising Office of Academic Advising » Departmental Advisors » PathwayOregon » Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence » CAMPUS News Events Maps Directions A–Z Index Find People Report a Concern TOOLS Webmail UOmail Canvas Duckweb RESOURCES Class Schedule Academic Calendar UO Libraries For Journalists University of Oregon 1585 E 13th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-1000 Contact Us Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Youtube Visit us on Vimeo Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy Policy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination.