Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Leadership Community Engagement Fraternity & Sorority Life Student Organizations Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Student Engagement Registered Student Organizations Join an RSOStart/Manage an RSOAccountability StatusHazing PreventionAdvise an RSOPLATiger ZoneCorq App Spirit Initiatives Student Event Allocation What is SEA?How to Submit a ProposalUpcoming Events Student Activities Council About SACSAC CommitteesEvent CalendarJoin SAC Fraternities & Sororities About FSA Potential Members Member Resources Information for Parents Interfraternity Council (IFC) National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) Panhellenic Council (PAN) Involvement Ambassadors Report a Concern about a Student Take Action Register for Recruitment Register for Frosh Camp Tiger Zone About Us Follow SLI Online InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Student Leadership & Involvement Student Engagement Fraternity/Sorority Affairs Potential Members Potential Members Thank you for your interest in joining our University of Memphis fraternity/sorority community! Formal Recruitment - Now Open Register for this recruitment if you are interested in the following chapters: Alpha Delta Pi Alpha Gamma Delta Delta Gamma Kappa Delta Pi Beta Phi Phi Mu Simga Kappa Register for this recruitment if you are interested in the following chapters: Kappa Alpha Order Kappa Sigma Lambda Chi Alpha Phi Gamma Delta Sigma Chi Sigma Phi Epsilonn Zeta Beta Tau PANHELLENIC RECRUITMENT > IFC RECRUITMENT > Why Join? Intellectual Development The Memphis fraternity/sorority community is built on strong academic standards. Members expect a lot of themselves and each other. Chapters provide a number of resources to support members in their academics: Group study sessions Workshops on study skills, test-taking strategies, time management, stress relief, and resume building Faculty advisers offer support and expertise Academic standards and member improvement plans should a member fall below the chapter GPA requirement Leadership Development As a member of a fraternity or sorority you'll find tremendous opportunities to become an effective leader. Greek organizations are self-governing with numerous leadership opportunities. Membership offers leadership training programs campus-wide and within chapters. Our members have the opportunity to: Hold a leadership role within their chapter Participate in our Panhellenic, Interfraternity, or National Pan-Hellenic Council Serve on University-wide committees Participate in local, state, regional, and national conferences Civic Engagement Service to others and the community is a part of everyday life in the fraternity/sorority community. Our members are generous fundraisers and service providers, annually giving more than $240,000 and providing over 7,000 hours of service. Our chapters: Organize, volunteer, and host different community service and philanthropic initiatives each year Organize dozens of chapter events to raise money and educate the campus Host and support other student organizations' educational programming about issues of civic engagement Brotherhood & Sisterhood The friendship of fraternity and sorority life is a true family experience. It offers you the security and happiness that is part of the brother/sister bond. While you don't have to limit your social life to fraternity and sorority activities, you will find many opportunities to meet and interact with your chapter, other chapters, and other campus organizations. Membership in a fraternity/sorority is not limited to your time as a student at Memphis; following graduation, there are still a number of ways to stay connected and remain active as a lifetime member of your organization. Potential New Member Information Potential New Member Orientation All students interested in joining any fraternity or sorority must attend one Potential New Member Orientation session. Information coming soon! IFC Recruitment Overview The primary way students join our IFC community is through formal recruitment, which will be held September 19-23, 2022 for the Fall semester. This is the process through which a man can join Kappa Alpha Order, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Chi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Zeta Beta Tau. During this time potential new members will have the chance to meet each of our fraternities, with the week culminating with IFC Bid Day. For more information about Interfraternity Council Formal Recruitment, contact Hayden Barnett, IFC Vice President of Recruitment at whbrntt1@memphis.edu Sign Up for IFC Recruitment NPHC Intake Overview Our NPHC chapters bring in new members through a process called intake, which typically happens once a year for each chapter. The intake process typically includes an informational meeting or rush, an individual interview, an application, and opportunities to meet undergraduate and graduate members of the organization. In order to be eligible to participate in a chapter's intake process, you should meet the following minimum requirements: Have at least 12 completed credit hours (some organizations require more, but at minimum, you must be a second-semester freshman) Earn at least a 2.5 college GPA It is strongly recommended that aspirants have leadership exposure and experience through on-campus involvement and community involvement. For more information about the membership intake process, contact Leland Summers, National Pan-Hellenic Council President at nphc@memphis.edu. Panhellenic Recruitment Overview The primary way students join our Panhellenic community is through formal recruitment, which will be held September 13-17, 2022, with a mandatory recruitment orientation the evening of September 12. This is the process through which a woman can join Alpha Delta Pi, Alpha Gamma Delta, Delta Gamma, Kappa Delta, Phi Mu, Pi Beta Phi, or Sigma Kappa. During this time potential new members will have the chance to meet each of our sororities, with the week culminating with Panhellenic Bid Day. To join Lambda Theta Alpha, a student does not need to participate in formal recruitment. An interested student should attend chapter events, meet members of the organization, and research the organization to learn more about whether or not it is right for her. Lambda Theta Alpha will then host informational meetings open to any student interested in membership. Following those informational meetings, interested students will complete an application, be invited to an interview with current and graduate members, and then potentially be selected for members. For more information about Panhellenic recruitment, contact Lydia Dacus, Vice President of Recruitment at ladacus@memphis.edu Sign Up for Panhellenic Recruitment Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.