Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Financial Aid Undergraduate Graduate Law Scholarships Student Employment Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Financial Aid Forms Financial Aid Checklist Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Home Financial Aid Financial Aid Checklist Financial Aid Checklist Apply for admission to The University of Memphis. Financial aid awards are only offered to fully admitted, degree-seeking students. Complete U.S. taxes early each year for use when completing the FAFSA. New regulations require tax information from the tax/calendar year one year earlier that has been used in the past. For example, the 2021-2022 FAFSA (Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer 2022) will use tax information from tax year 2019. The 2022-2023 FAFSA (Fall 2022, Spring 2023, and Summer 2023) will use tax information from tax year 2020. File the FAFSA as early as possible after October 1. Access your financial aid status and/or award information through myMemphis. Our Step-by-Step page will guide you through this process. Return any requested documents to the Student Aid Office in a timely manner. Review your on-line award offer. You will have the option to accept/accept partial/decline. Use the automated processes as much as possible. Our Financial Aid website and Frequently Asked Questions page can answer most general questions. Good Advice Remember, any loans that you receive as part of your financial aid package will eventually have to be repaid. Here are some helpful tips for keeping your debt in check. Debt Management Budget your financial aid monies carefully during the year. Make informed choices about the amount of educational debt you can incur to obtain your degree. Understand the impact of student debt on your future lifestyle. Explore alternatives to borrowing. Explore ways to decrease your expenses always thinking before you buy something. Understand credit. Know that student loans are obligations that must be repaid. Successful repayment of your student loans begins after your grace period, once you cease to be at least a half-time student. If you transfer schools, be sure to get a deferment on your prior student loans. It does not happen automatically. Plan for repayment as soon as you receive your first student loan. Manage and monitor your loans throughout and after college at StudentAid.gov so that you are aware of your total student loan debt. Managing Your Money Better Don't live a lifestyle you can't afford. Budget your money just as carefully as your time; get on a monthly budget and stick to it. Save a little each month (even if it is only $5.00) and plan for the future. Keep accurate, well organized records of all your bills and expenses. Establish and maintain a strong credit history. Request annual statements of your credit report. Borrow the minimum amount you need. Be a well-informed borrower. Pay your credit cards in full each month. Use your credit cards only for emergencies. Limit the number of credit cards. Be realistic on how much money you will earn right out of college. It has been said, "If you live like a professional while you are in school, you will live like a student once you have graduated." Suggestions on How to Cut Expenses Find a roommate to share housing and other living expenses. Consider reducing entertainment expenses, such as dining out. Use coupons on grocery and department store purchases and watch for sales. Refrain from taking on further consumer debt, such as more credit cards. Evaluate your expenditures every few months to see where your money is being spent, where you can cut back, and when you need to stop spending. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/28/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.