Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityOffice of Economic Engagement Office of Economic Engagement About Staff Contact Us Corporate Engagement Talent and Recruitment Access Research Explore Research Centers Professional Development Opportunities Increase Outreach and Visibility Partnership Examples Technology Transfer Technology Transfer Home What is Technology Transfer? Benefits of Technology Transfer For Inventors Submit an Invention Disclosure For Our Partners Available Technologies Marquette Startups Community Engagement Highlights Impact En Español How Do We Define Community Engagement? How to Partner Past Events MU Engage - Student Community Engagement Database Awards and Honors Community Engagement Symposium Community Engagement Stories The President's Challenge Marquette Forum Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Student Resources Partnering for Impact Our holistic approach to corporate engagement aims to create mutually beneficial and sustainable partnerships. Linking organizations to the full breadth and depth of resources at Marquette University, the office facilitates connections to faculty, staff, students, facilities and programs. Connect with Marquette and explore: Talent and recruitment Interdisciplinary research and research centers Professional development opportunities Ways to increase outreach and visibility We invite you to complete the form below to schedule a virtual meeting and explore the possibilities. If you see this don't fill out this input box. Name* Email* Please describe the nature of your request* Submit Clear Quick Links Corporate Engagement Home Talent and Recruitment Access Research Explore our Research Centers Professional Development Opportunities Increase Outreach and Visibility Partnership Examples PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact nadine.desmarais@marquette.edu. Location Office of Economic Engagement Zilber Hall, 360 1250 W. Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-5011 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©