Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Parking Services Parking right arrow down arrow Locations right arrow down arrow Maps Visitors right arrow down arrow Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway Students right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont Leased Properties Parking Permits Faculty & Staff right arrow down arrow Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub Victory Parkway UC Reading Value Pass Mobile Pay Instructions Citations right arrow down arrow View Account Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Football Basketball College-Conservatory of Music Event & Meeting Planners Other Event Prepaid Parking Instructions Athletic Events Prepaid Parking Resources right arrow down arrow Policies How-To Videos Alternative Transportation FAQ Home » About UC » Parking Services » Visitors » UC Blue Ash Set Navigation title in component Maps Uptown UC Blue Ash UC Clermont 1819 Innovation Hub UC Reading Victory Parkway UC Blue Ash Visitor Parking Parking Policies Visitors may park in any white-lined stall. Anyone parking for more than 72 hours, must contact Parking Services at least 72-hours in advance of the visit. A visitor pass will be provided by the department you are visiting. The pass must be fully displayed on the driver’s side of the dashboard. UC Blue Ash Campus Map Stall Designation Parking is permitted only in marked stalls. Fire Lanes Yellow curbs or signage designates a fire lane. Fire lanes are tow-away zones and must be kept clear at all times. Reserved Parking Signage designates reserved parking. Parking in a reserved space without the proper permit will result in a citation and towing of the vehicle. ADA Accessible Parking Blue lines and signage designates handicap parking.  A valid state-issued disability placard or license plate is required. ADA spaces are for permit holders and visitors. Faculty/Staff Yellow-lined stalls are reserved for those with a faculty/staff permit. Dental Hygiene Clinic Green-lined stalls are reserved for those visiting the Dental Hygiene Clinic. Violation of this will result in a citation and towing of the vehicle. Deliveries & Contractors Deliveries Parking will not be reserved for deliveries unless a Request for Special Parking Form is submitted online in advance. Delivery drivers are responsible for any parking violations they incur. Loading & Unloading Parking for loading and unloading up to 30 minutes is available in the marked stalls. University and Other Government Vehicles University vehicles are subject to university parking regulations. Operators of university-owned or leased vehicles must comply with vehicle regulations. If the operator’s identity cannot be determined, the department to which the vehicle is assigned will be liable for payment of fines. Government vehicles are subject to compliance with parking rules and regulations. Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 parking@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Parking Services University of Cincinnati 4 Edwards Center 51 Corry Boulevard Cincinnati, OH 45221-0624 513-556-2283 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top