Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Nursing Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Nursing Major Apply Visit Request More Info Nursing Major Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Science in Nursing As a student in Temple’s Bachelor of Science in Nursing program, you will gain experience through opportunities to offer direct care among diverse populations in a variety of healthcare settings, developing a strong foundation for your professional nursing career. The nursing curriculum progresses from humanities, science fundamentals, and basic nursing theory and skills to the application of this knowledge in the provision of simple and progressively more complex care. You will learn to meet the needs of individuals across the lifespan, apply sound clinical reasoning and collaborate with a full healthcare team. Whether you aspire to have a career in the ICU, as a community health nurse or in another setting, the Nursing BSN will guide you to become an informed healthcare advocate; a capable, compassionate nurse leader; and an expert nurse clinician. The Nursing Major also creates a strong foundation for students to continue into graduate-level nursing programs, such as Temple's Doctor of Nursing Practice. Upon successful completion of the program, graduates are eligible to sit for the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX). After passing the NCLEX, graduates can practice as a registered nurse in the state in which they took the examination or transfer their license to practice in another state. What sets apart our Bachelor of Science in Nursing? Early opportunities to build experience: Temple’s BSN program is an eight-semester program with first-year student admission. Nursing classes begin in your first semester. During the first year, you will examine the history of nursing and the role nurses play in the community. Courses will focus on the needs of medically underserved and vulnerable populations, immersing you in ethics, health literacy, therapeutic communication and more. Hands-on practice in the simulation lab will allow you to apply concepts from class and improve your knowledge and skills in a supportive, safe and supervised environment. A dynamic urban environment: Temple University is located in North Philadelphia and provides unique opportunities to experience nursing in an urban setting with a diverse community. The Department of Nursing partners with some of the best healthcare facilities in Philadelphia, including Temple University Hospital (Main, Episcopal and Jeanes campuses), Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Einstein Medical Center, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Lankenau Hospital and St. Christopher’s Hospital for Children. Maila Turay, CPH ’19 Bachelor of Science in Nursing “They opened my eyes and made me see that I can do whatever I want ... I don’t know what it’s like at other universities, but here at Temple the faculty will support you.” Read more about Maila. Program Format The BSN program requires 122 credits over four years, with 45 credits comprised of upper-division nursing courses. See a full list of program courses. Honors Programs for BSN Students BSN students in the Temple University Honors Program can take advantage of several benefits for honors students, including priority course registration, dedicated honors advisors, and special course opportunities. Learn more about the Honors Program at Temple. Krista Schroeder is an assistant professor and serves as faculty mentor for BSN students in the Honors Program. Email: krista.schroeder@temple.edu Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Beginning in the summer before your freshman year, you will meet our academic advisors who will schedule time with you regularly throughout the nursing program to review your progress, and provide additional guidance and referral to student resources and services, as needed. In your junior year you will begin to meet with a faculty advisor to discuss academic support, career guidance and support services. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees Doctor of Nursing Practice Student Organizations All students are eligible to join Temple’s chapter of the Student Nurses’ Association of Pennsylvania (SNAP), which is the official professional organization for nursing students. All students are encouraged to join, and have the opportunity to engage in community service activities throughout the year, as well as to participate in local, state and national meetings to gain information about careers and professional growth. Learn more about SNAP. You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Science in Nursing offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year There are additional costs associated with the nursing program, including uniforms, some equipment (such as a stethoscope), and travel to and from clinical and community sites. HP-NURS-BSNU Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Nursing Major Accreditation and Program Outcomes Admissions Clinical Education Departmental Research Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info