Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Coronavirus Archived Messages HEERF/Cares Act ☰ Coronavirus SMU SMU COVID-19 Mustang Strong -- COVID-19 Information Mustang Strong -- COVID-19 Information Thank you for your commitment to keep our campus healthy and Mustang Strong. As of May 15, 2022, SMU sunset many of the pandemic protocols in place the past two years. Please reference the information below for specifics on testing, masking, vaccinations and more. More information Mask Policy + Other Pandemic Protocols Masks are optional on the SMU campus in indoor spaces with the exception of the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center. The University’s case management, required case reporting, voluntary vaccine reporting and daily maintenance of the dashboard have been discontinued. COVID-19 Vaccinations & Boosters Getting vaccinated against COVID-19 is not required to attend or work at SMU. The University offers students, faculty and staff — as well as employees’ spouses and dependents — the option to get vaccinated and boosted on campus at the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center. You can learn more and schedule your vaccine or booster by visiting the Health Center website or by calling 214-768-2141 (option 1). COVID-19 Testing Members of the SMU community have several options to test for COVID-19. Students No-cost COVID-19 testing is available at the Dr. Bob Smith Health Center for students. You can learn more and schedule your test by visiting the Health Center website or by calling 214-768-2141 (option 1). Employees and Families SMU continues to provide access to convenient COVID-19 testing for employees and their families, including adjunct faculty and their families. Please visit the Human Resources website for more information. Isolation and Quarantine If you are feeling ill and experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and rest until you are well and prepared to return to campus. Students should contact their professor and make-up any lost work. Faculty and staff can alert their dean or supervisor if they plan to miss time due to illness. The University discontinued its case management program and no longer requires individuals with a confirmed case of COVID-19 to report it to SMU. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention offers useful isolation and quarantine guidance. Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share