Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center Welcome to the SMCC! SMCC Description: Through the Department of Mathematical Sciences, the Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center (SMCC) serves researchers from Clemson University, commerce, industry, and government by offering data analysis, statistical guidance and interpretation, problem solving, scientific computing, and mathematical modeling. SMCC provides an interdisciplinary environment for collaboration and consultation. The mission of SMCC is to improve the quality of scientific analysis in support of Clemson's research efforts across a broad range of disciplines. SMCC Services: SMCC offers services for resolving statistical and mathematical software issues, research projects, and long-term collaborations for faculty, students, centers, and institutes. Short term assistance is free to Clemson University researchers. Additional arrangements may be necessary for larger and/or externally-funded projects. Walk-in service, reoccurring appointments, and extended grant support are provided. Please review our policies and schedule a meeting. Areas of Expertise: Questionnaire/Survey Development and Analysis AnalyticsData Science Experimental Design Multivariate Methods Biostatistics Sampling Time Series Bayesian Statistics Optimization Problems Computational Mathematics Operations Research Pure/Foundational Mathematics Applied Mathematics Problems (Finance and Biology) Software Package Support (e.g. Statistics, Operations Research, Mathematics, Scientific Computing) Site Maintained by: Dr. Pat Gerard, SMCC Director & Site Manager Statistics and Mathematics Consulting Center | O-110 Martin Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 | (864) 656-3433 SMCC Home Project Request Form Staff Sample Consultation Work Contact Us SMCC in the Press Related Links Mathematical Sciences Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram