Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Communication & Film About Graduate Undergraduate People Alumni Events Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Communication Studies Major in Communication Studies Online Film & Video Production Communication Minor Current Courses Advising Internships Lambda Pi Eta Honors Program Accelerated BA/MA Take Action Get Started in the COMM Major Apply to COMM Graduate Programs Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterLinkedIn Home Communication & Film Undergraduate Communication Degree Online Major in Communication Studies Online Our online major teaches flexible knowledge and skills that transfer to a variety of settings. We are committed to preparing you not only for a career, but a lifetime of learning—all from the comfort and safety of your own home. Our focus areas allow you to explore your interests in communication in depth. Whether you want to learn how people form relationships and work in groups (Professional & Relational Communication), how citizens and politicians argue and advocate to solve problems and advance causes (Rhetoric & Public Advocacy), or how film, television, and new media shape our identities and society (Media & Society), we have a course of study just for you! Contact Dr. Cicely Wilson for an online advising session today! Visit U of M Global for more information. COMM 2381 – Oral Communication Credit Hours (3) Description: Principles and practices of public speaking using live and mediated formats; emphasis on researching, analyzing, writing and delivering effective spoken messages with appropriate visual support in informative persuasive settings. COMM 2100 – Communication Inquiry Credit hours (3) Description: History and development of the discipline of communication; emphasis on rhetoric, social science and media; theories and models of communication. Examine definitions and models of the communication process and focus on the development of major theories in the discipline with a particular emphasis on how these theories apply to everyday life. COMM 2101 – Media and Info Literacy Credit hours (3) Description: Critical examination and analysis of media and information products, focus on mediated construction of meaning and assessment of credibility online and in traditional mass media; basic research skills necessary to complete academic projects successfully. COMM 3001 – Rhetoric/Civic Controversy Credit Hours (3) Description: Introduction to history and practice of rhetoric as the art of civic engagement in a democracy, focus on key terms, ethical assumptions and interpretative tools of rhetoric study; analysis of contemporary and historical cases in focal and national controversy. COMM 3100 – Communication Ethics Credit Hours (3) Description: Exploration of principles, theories, and philosophical approaches to ethics of human communication; emphasis on decision-making, critical thinking and awareness of personal responsibilities as a sender and receiver of messages. COMM 3321 – Argumentation and Advocacy Credit Hours (3) Description: Theories of argumentation with an emphasis on developing skills in analyzing, reasoning and using evidence in political advocacy. Students will learn the role of advocacy, debate and deliberation in public decision making. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2301 COMM 3330 - (4) Examination and application of qualitative and quantitative methods of research. Three hours of lecture, one hour of laboratory per week. PREREQUISITE: COMM 2100 and COMM 2101. COMM 4381 – Senior Capstone Credit Hours (3) Description: Synthesis and extension of knowledge in communication studies; demonstrated integration of learning and positioning to move on as individuals, citizens and/or professionals. Students will create a portfolio representing past course projects as well as carry out a capstone research project. PREREQUESITE: COMM 3330 and senior standing or permission of instructor. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/1/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.