Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Admission Tuition & Affordability X Affording UVA Financial Aid MyIntuition Quick College Cost Estimator Student Financial Services “At first I didn't think that UVA was within reach, but there were a lot of different resources and people that helped me.” –Casey Balamut, Undergraduate Student, Curry '18 By the Numbers 100% UVA Meets the Full Amount of Demonstrated Need 35% Of Students Awarded Some Level of Need-Based Assistance #4 Best Public College Value, Kiplinger's Personal Finance Affordability How Affordable is UVA? As graduating high schoolers and their parents make final decisions about college, many will place affordability and value near the top of their list. Through its financial aid program, the University of Virginia strives to remove barriers to attending UVA. Watch this video for an introduction to UVA affordability, and visit Student Financial Services for more details. Financial Aid Approach to Financial Aid At UVA, we believe the accessibility and affordability of a quality education should be based on a student’s academic performance, talent and character – not on their ability to pay. We help talented students pursue their dreams. Students are offered admission based on their intellect, academic achievements and extracurricular involvement, regardless of their ﬁnancial situation or ability to pay. We meet 100% of ﬁnancial need. UVA meets the demonstrated ﬁnancial need for all in-state and out-of-state students applying by the annual March 1st deadline, through a combination of scholarships, grants, work-study and need-based loans. Manageable loans. UVA is committed to limiting need-based loans for students with ﬁnancial need, so they graduate with less debt. For more details on our financial aid program, please visit our Financial Aid page. Financial Aid MyIntuition Quick College Cost Estimator Student Financial Services University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia