Business Engagement Talent Interns Career Fairs On Campus Interviews On Site Networking Research CyBiz Lab Capstone Projects President’s Initiative Grad Students & Post Docs Collaborative Research Professors as Advisors Corporate Engagement/Branding Guest Lecture Speaking Gigs Program Curriculum Advisors Advisory Boards Industry Associations & Consortia Sponsorships CyBiz Lab Specialized Equipment & Spaces Fee for Service Mitigate Risk & Liability Labs & Staff Prototyping or 3D Printing Visualization Philanthropy Scholarship & Leadership Programs Mentor Network Seed Network Naming Specialized Resources America’s SBDC Iowa Center For Industrial Research And Service (Ciras) America’s Cultivation Corridor CyBiz Lab ISU I-Corps Site KEY PROGRAM DATES ISU Office of Intellectual Property and Tech Transfer ISU Pappajohn Center For Entrepreneurship ISU Research Foundation ISU Research Park ISU Startup Factory Regents Innovation Fund Proposals News & Events News Events Featured Stories About Contact Select Page CyBiz Lab The Iowa State University CyBIZ Lab provides the opportunity for cross functional teams of undergraduate and graduate students to work on business and organizational projects. Students gain hands-on experience working to solve real business problems, and companies and organizations receive potential solutions to business issues from a perspective outside the company. CyBIZ Lab services are available to existing businesses and corporations, new businesses, startups, and non-profit organizations. Consulting and startup projects are fee based and priced according to complexity and timeframe. Live cases are conducted as part of a for-credit classroom experience. Non-profit organizations are eligible for a matching grant program in which the organization may apply for a grant that will cover half the cost of the project. Business projects may address organizational challenges including, but not limited to, market analysis, industry research, client surveys, financial analysis, new product or new business feasibility analysis, logistics and supply chain analysis, information systems, or other business issues. PROGRAM BENEFITS Students gain valuable training and experience that will make them more competitive and marketable to employers. Companies receive potential solutions to existing problems from a new perspective. Companies may identify potential new employees who have already spent a great deal of time learning about the company. Relationships between businesses and organizations and the College of Business are strengthened and enhanced. Copyright 2022 Economic Development & Industry Relations