Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Spring 2022 FAQ Home Spring 2022 FAQ Is pre-arrival testing required for students? Yes. The University will require that all students obtain a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours prior to their return to Boston College in January, and email the results to covidtesting@bc.edu. Do I need to be tested after arriving at Boston College? Yes. In addition to pre-arrival student COVID-19 testing, the University will require that all students, faculty, and staff who plan to participate in activities on campus during the spring semester be tested for COVID-19 prior to January 18. Faculty and staff should test between Monday, January 10, and Friday, January 14 (see schedule below). Testing for students who reside on campus will occur during their move-in January 15-17, as scheduled through Residential Life. Undergraduates who live off campus and graduate/professional students should test as soon as they return to the area and before engaging in on-campus activities, preferably during the January 10-14 period. All COVID-19 tests will take place in the Margot Connell Recreation Center’s MAC Courts during the following times: Monday, January 10 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 11 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 12 | 6:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Thursday, January 13 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Friday, January 14 | 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday, January 15 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Sunday, January 16 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Monday, January 17 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Do students, faculty and staff need to wear masks? Yes. The University has instituted a temporary masking period from January 14-31, 2022. Do I need to have a COVID-19 booster? Yes. All faculty, staff, and students must obtain a COVID-19 booster and upload their card (see below) by February 9, 2022. Will BC provide COVID-19 Booster shots? Boston College will continue to offer COVID-19 vaccination booster clinics early next semester, including each day during the initial testing period January 10-17. Please find below the initial schedule and link for appointment sign-up. Monday, January 10 | 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 11 | 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 12 | 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Thursday, January 13 | 8:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. Friday, January 14 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Saturday, January 15 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Sunday, January 16 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Monday, January 17 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. https://www.appointmentquest.com/scheduler/2250024227?schedule=bostoncollege How do I upload my vaccination record? Students should upload COVID-19 Vaccination Record Cards to the Agora Health Services Portal following the steps below: Go to Agora Portal - Other Services - Health Services Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Agora Health Services portal. Choose via the drop down menu the COVID vaccination booster icon, and record the vaccination booster date. Click SUBMIT to save; Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES; Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the COVID vaccination booster in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading, and hit the UPLOAD button. Faculty and staff should also upload their Vaccination Cards via the Agora Portal: Click the "PeopleSoft Human Resources Services" link located in the "My Services" section; Confirm your identity through BC's 2-Step Verification process; To log in to PeopleSoft Human Resources while off campus, you will need to connect to a BC VPN and confirm your identity through BC's 2-Step Verification; From the “Main Menu” select “Self Service” then “Personal Information” and select “Update COVID-19 Record”; To upload your CDC COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card, follow the instructions on the page and click “Save"; If you have tested positive for COVID-19, please include your positive test date under the “COVID-19 Testing Record” tab; If you have any questions, please reach out to HR@bc.edu. What should I do if I test positive for COVID-19? Regardless of vaccination status, individuals who test positive: Must remain in isolation for five days, whether having symptoms or not (with the day of positive test counting as day zero); Are eligible to leave isolation after five days if they have decreasing symptoms and no fever; individuals with fever must remain in isolation until fever-free (UHS may also test students in University isolation housing before release); Must wear a mask indoors and outdoors for five days after release from isolation when unable to maintain appropriate physical distancing. What if I am a close contact of someone who tests positive for COVID-19? You must follow the quarantine protocols: Close contacts who have received their booster or who are fully vaccinated with Moderna within the last six months, Pfizer within the last 5 months, or J&J within the last two months: Will not have to quarantine, unless they have symptoms; Must wear a mask indoors and outdoors for 10 days when unable to maintain physical distancing; Test on Day 2-3 and Day 5-7 after exposure to an individual testing positive and if symptomatic at any time during the 10-day period. Close contacts who have not yet received their booster, but are eligible, and those with University-approved religious or medical COVID-19 vaccination exemption: Must quarantine for 5 days; Must wear a mask indoors and outdoors after release from quarantine for 5 days when unable to maintain physical distancing; Test on Day 2-3 and Day 5-7 after exposure to an individual testing positive and if symptomatic at any time during the 10-day period. Do I still need to check my symptoms before coming to campus? Yes. Please continue to utilize the BC Daily Symptom Checker before coming to campus (bc.edu/check). Faculty and staff should contact their primary care physician and students should inform University Health Services immediately upon experiencing one of the following: new loss of taste or smell, shortness of breath or cough (not associated with allergies) OR two of the following: fever, muscle/body aches, sore throat, headache, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, fatigue, or congestion or runny nose (not associated with allergies). Are individuals who have recently tested positive for COVID-19 outside of Boston College exempt from testing during the week of January 10th? Faculty and staff who have tested positive for COVID-19 outside of Boston College within the past 100 days (90 days since clearing isolation) are exempt from mandatory testing during the week of January 10. They should immediately contact Human Resources and their supervisor to share their positive COVID-19 test result. Students who have tested positive outside of BC during this timeframe should contact University Health Services with their positive test result via covidtesting@bc.edu. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College