Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Our Leadership Christopher L. Eisgruber President. Christopher Eisgruber is the 20th president of Princeton University Learn more Deborah Prentice Provost. The provost is the University’s second-ranking officer. She is the chief academic officer and chief budget officer, with special responsibility for long-range planning. Learn more Treby Williams Executive Vice President. The executive vice president is the University’s chief administrative officer with oversight of the development, stewardship and operation of the physical campus, the delivery of campus services, and the provision of programs to support campus life. Learn more W. Rochelle Calhoun Vice President for Campus Life Learn more Cole Crittenden Acting Dean of the Graduate School Learn more Pablo G. Debenedetti Dean for Research Learn more Gadi Dechter Vice President for Communications and Government Affairs Learn more Jill S. Dolan Dean of the College Learn more Jay Dominick VP for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Learn more Andrew K. Golden President, Princeton University Investment Company Learn more Andrea Goldsmith Dean, School of Engineering and Applied Science Learn more Kevin J. Heaney Vice President for Advancement Learn more Amaney Jamal Dean, School of Public and International Affairs Learn more Gene Andrew Jarrett Dean of the Faculty Learn more Anne Jarvis Robert H. Taylor 1930 University Librarian Learn more Chad L. Klaus Vice President, University Services Learn more Jim Matteo Vice President for Finance and Treasurer Learn more David J. McComas Vice President for the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory Learn more Hilary Parker Vice President and Secretary Learn more Mónica Ponce de León Dean, School of Architecture Learn more Karen Richardson Dean of Admission Learn more Ramona E. Romero Vice President and General Counsel Learn more Nilufer K. Shroff Vice President and Chief Audit and Compliance Officer Learn more Lianne C. Sullivan-Crowley Vice President for Human Resources Learn more KyuJung Whang Vice President for Facilities Learn more Meet Princeton In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice