× Please sign in You need to log in to use the bookmarking feature. Sign In Harvard Business School Sign in to Baker Library Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Search Find Services Ask Browse Databases Collections & Archives Guides Exhibits Find Books, Articles & More More Places HOLLIS Catalog Harvard Library Working Knowledge Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program See all... Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Staff Visiting Researchers Ask Us Ask a Question Fast Answers Policies Staff Directory How Do I... Request HBS Cases Plan A Visit Manage My Data Get Teaching Support Baker Library Databases Ask Us Special Collections Fast Answers All Services Hours Plan Your Visit Exhibits Hollis Working Knowledge HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Campaign Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Search Search Search Home Services Baker Library Services Research Research The Harvard community has unparalleled research support from the team of experts at Baker Library. We’ll save you time and help you go deeper with research services that range from fact finding, company and industry research, research data services, citation management, and more. Bookmark This Research /services/baker-library-services/research 99 52495 Research /services/baker-library-services/research 99 52495 Add My Librarian Item Filters Service Type Research Curriculum Research Data Program Publications Archives & Records Management Information Management Service Audience Faculty Doctoral Students MBA Students Alumni Executive Education Program Participants Staff Visiting Researchers Browse All Services Alumni Research Services /services/alumni-research-services HBS alumni have lifelong access to Baker Library resources and services, including remote access to premium databases through eBaker. Work with us; we’re on your team. 67 52583 Alumni Research Services /services/alumni-research-services HBS alumni have lifelong access to Baker Library resources and services, including remote access to premium databases through eBaker. Work with us; we’re on your team. 67 52583 Add My Librarian Item Alumni Research Services HBS alumni have lifelong access to Baker Library resources and services, including remote access to premium databases through eBaker. Work with us; we’re on your team. Book Delivery /services/book-delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. 67 52946 Book Delivery /services/book-delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. 67 52946 Add My Librarian Item Book Delivery HBS faculty can now have books delivered directly to their office. Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan /services/borrow-direct-interlibrary-loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). 67 34934 Add My Librarian Item Borrow Direct & Interlibrary Loan Harvard Library tools and services that facilitate the access & delivery of books and articles from Borrow Direct affiliated libraries and interlibrary loan (borrowing from other libraries). Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Case Requests /services/case-requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. 67 34950 Add My Librarian Item Case Requests Students currently registered in an HBS MBA or Doctoral class may request certain HBS Cases from the HBP Cases catalog. Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Consultations /services/consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. 67 36001 Add My Librarian Item Consultations Do you want to schedule a research consultation with a Baker librarian? Find out more about how we can help. Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Data Creation & Data Collection /services/data-creation-data-collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources 67 34945 Add My Librarian Item Data Creation & Data Collection Baker Library's deep expertise with the licensed and publically available databases, as well as print collections, enables us to efficiently and effectively download, scrape, merge, and clean data from disparate sources Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Data Wrangling & Analysis /services/data-wrangling-analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. 67 34943 Add My Librarian Item Data Wrangling & Analysis Baker Research Services provides an array of data services including downloading, scraping, merging, and cleaning data from disparate sources from licensed and publicly available data sources, and the preparation of data for analysis. The team, comprised of data scientists, researchers, business information specialists, and librarians also offers a variety of analytical and data visualization services to support faculty research projects and publications using Baker collections and licensed and publicly available data sources. Fact Checking and Background Information /services/fact-checking-and-background-information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. 67 34977 Fact Checking and Background Information /services/fact-checking-and-background-information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. 67 34977 Add My Librarian Item Fact Checking and Background Information We can provide you with fact checking and background information for media interviews, teaching prep, and case writing. Faculty Purchase Requests /services/faculty-purchase-requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. 67 52967 Faculty Purchase Requests /services/faculty-purchase-requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. 67 52967 Add My Librarian Item Faculty Purchase Requests Baker staff is committed to providing timely acquisition of books, subscriptions, and other materials for faculty research and office collections. Literature/Article Searches /services/literature-article-searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. 67 34973 Literature/Article Searches /services/literature-article-searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. 67 34973 Add My Librarian Item Literature/Article Searches We can leverage your time and add value to your research by conducting a literature search to support your work, whether it be for a research project, for teaching prep, or to support your cases, articles, or books. Programming and Statistical Services /services/programming-and-statistical-services Baker Library provides an array of programming and statistical services and support. 67 34974 Programming and Statistical Services /services/programming-and-statistical-services Baker Library provides an array of programming and statistical services and support. 67 34974 Add My Librarian Item Programming and Statistical Services Baker Library provides an array of programming and statistical services and support. Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Research Assistance /services/research-assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. 67 48745 Add My Librarian Item Research Assistance Baker Library offers access to a vast array of information resources. It also connects you to the broader resources of the Harvard University Libraries. With so many resources available, sometimes it's not easy to find and evaluate the information you need. Don't hesitate to ask for assistance. Research Services - Special Collections /services/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. 67 52606 Research Services - Special Collections /services/research-services-special-collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. 67 52606 Add My Librarian Item Research Services - Special Collections Research archivists and librarians are available to work with you on your research project, identifying potential resources within the full range of materials in Special Collections. Interested in the history of HBS? Our research staff can conduct in-depth research within the HBS Archives for HBS faculty and staff. In addition, we offer name search services within our most heavily used collection, the R.G. Dun & Co. Credit Reports. Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Workshops /services/workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. 67 34966 Add My Librarian Item Workshops Baker Library provides workshops, presentations and information sessions for faculty, students and alumni; as well as directly to students in the classroom. Learn more about our presentations, including how to schedule one for your course or club. Back to top Today's HoursAll Hours Connect with Baker Map & Contacts Know Before You Go Library Spaces Staff Directory About the Library B4B Product Catalog Books@Baker Annual Reports Harvard Business School Baker Library | Bloomberg Center Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6040 Email: infoservices@hbs.edu Maps and Directions Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes All Social Media Jobs Trademarks Site Map Harvard University Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © 2022 President & Fellows of Harvard College.