Skip to main content GSD Logo Harvard University Graduate School of Design Reopening Menu Search Academics Department of Architecture Department of Landscape Architecture Department of Urban Planning and Design Design Studies Design Engineering Doctoral Programs Undergraduate Architecture Studies Loeb Fellowship Executive Education Early Design Education Research Courses More ▼ Apply GSD Now Give People Faculty Staff Students Alumni About Administrative Leadership Council Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Alumni and Friends Website Resources Most Popular: Admissions COVID-19 Financial Aid Frances Loeb Library Student Affairs Offices & Services All Resources → For: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni Explore News Events Exhibitions Publications Podcasts Projects Topics Site Index Jump to: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z A AIA Henry Adams Certificate AIA Henry Adams Medal AICP Outstanding Student Award Academic Affairs Academic Appointments and Policies Academic Calendars & Schedules Academic Conduct Policy Academic Integrity Academic Services & Advising Accellion Secure File Transfer Accessibility Services Accessibility Services at Public Programs Access to Career Services During Leave of Absence Accreditation Administrative Leadership Council Admissions Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions FAQ AfricaGSD After MDes Workshops After MDes Workshops Aga Khan Program at the GSD Alpha Rho Chi Medal Alumni Connections Alumni Council Career Panels American Society of Landscape Architects Awards Application Checklist Apply Apply for Financial Aid Apply for a Job with Computer Resources Applying for Restricted Scholarships Araldo A. Cossutta Annual Prize for Design Excellence Architecture Architecture Core Prep Areas of Concentration Art, Design, and the Public Domain Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2018 Art, Design, and the Public Domain – Required Courses 2019 Attendance Augmented & Virtual Reality (AR/VR) Award Details Award for Excellence in Project-Based Urban Planning Award for Excellence in Urban Design Award for Outstanding Leadership in Urban Planning and Urban Design B Benefits & Perks Biking Borrowing Print Materials Building Services Business Cards for Students C COVID-19 Information for Staff COVID-19 Testing and Tracing CREATE for Alumni CREATE for Employers CREATE for Students Canvas Capital Improvements and Projects Career Paths by Program Career Resources for Alumni Career Services: Alumni Career Services: Employers Career Services: FAQs Career Services: Faculty Career Services: Students Career Services Offerings Career Services Video Library Careers Casual Conversations With GSD Alumni Change of Address Charles Abrams Scholarship Charles Eliot Traveling Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Chauhaus Classroom Equipment Classroom Technology Clifford Wong Prize in Housing Design Commencement 2022 Commencement Information Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Communications Community Values, Rights, and Responsibilities Computer Accounts and Passwords Computer Labs Computer Recommendations Computer Requirements Computer Resources Group Concurrent and Joint Degrees Connecting to the File Server Connect with the GSD Contact Contact Admissions Contact Financial Aid Contact the GSD Cost Recovery Policy Course Catalog Course Descriptions Course Info Sessions and Videos Critical Conservation Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2018 Critical Conservation – Required Courses 2019 Cross-Registration Policies & Procedures Current MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements Current MUP Degree Requirements Curriculum Custodial Services D DDes & PhD Financial Aid DDes/PhD Open House Schedule DDes Guidelines for the Dissertation DDes Guidelines for the General Exam DDes Guidelines for the Prospectus DIB Annual Report DIB Programs Daniel L. Schodek Award for Technology and Sustainability Daniel Urban Kiley Teaching Fellowship in Landscape Architecture Dean’s Office Degree Checks Degree Programs Degree Requirements Policies Degree Verifications Design Computing at the GSD Design Labs Design Now: A Quarterly Podcast from Harvard’s Graduate School of Design Design Studies Thesis Prize Desktop 3D Printing Regulations Development and Alumni Relations Digital Delivery and Electronic Resources Digital Design Prize Digital Governance Policy Dimitris Pikionis Award Directions Diversity, Inclusion, & Belonging at Career Services Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Offerings Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Resources Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Doctoral Grader (Union Position) Doctoral Programs Doctor of Design Program (DDes) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Document Request Form Druker Traveling Fellowship E ETH Zurich Exchange Program Early Design Education Ecologies Eligibility Email Accounts Emergencies Employer Presentations Employers & Career Paths for Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for Landscape Architecture Students Employers & Career Paths for MDE Students Employers & Career Paths for MDes and DDes Students Employers & Career Paths for Urban Planning and Design Students Endowed Fellowships & Financial Aid Funds Energy and Environment Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2017 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2018 Energy and Environment – Required Courses 2019 Enrollment Certifications Enrollment Policies Environmental Health and Safety at the GSD Equipment for Classroom Instruction Equitable Accountability Ergonomics Event Audiovisual Support Event Participation for Alumni Event Planning for Faculty and Staff Event Planning for Students Events Events Archive Executive Education Exemptions, Waivers, and Substitutions for MUPs Exhibitions F FAQ FERPA Fabrication Laboratory Faculty Faculty: Collaborate With Career Services Faculty Affairs Office Faculty Directory Faculty Handbooks, Administrative Policies, and Guidelines for Instruction Faculty Research Federal Work-Study Information Fellowships, Funding Sources, and Internships for Students Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Fellowships, Prizes, & Travel Programs Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld Prize for Superior Achievement in Real Estate Studies Final Review Schedule (Spring 2021 – M1, Full-term, M2) Finance Office Financial Aid Financial Aid Application Process for Current Students Financial Aid Application for Prospective Students Financial Aid FAQ Financial Aid Handbook Financial Aid and Satisfactory Progress Financial Matters First Meetings for Option Studios Flexwork at the GSD Frances Loeb Library Fulbright U.S. Student Program G GLACIER GSD-Courances Residency Program GSD Alumni Council Career Panels GSD Community Calendar GSD Consumer Information GSD Diversity Cabinet GSD Payroll Coordinators GSD Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund GSD Radio GSD Student Payroll GSD Web Style Gain Experience General Ledger Gifts & Grants Grading Grant Aid H Harvard-MIT Course Logistics Harvard GSD Job & Internship Fair 2022 Harvard Graduate School of Design Employer Recruiting Policies Harvard Graduate School of Design Fact Book Harvard ID Card Harvard International Office Harvard Shuttle and Van Service Harvard Travel Registry Health Services Heating/Cooling Schedule Help Desk Hiring Students: Information for Faculty History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2018 History & Philosophy of Design – Required Courses 2019 History and Philosophy of Design and Media Home How To Plot How to Post an Event to GSD Now How to Write a Resume That Stands Out Human Resources Human Resources Forms & Policies Hybrid Classroom I IT Policies Income Processing Policy and Procedures Information for Current DDes Students Information for Current PhD Students Installing AEScript AfterEffects Plugin Installing Adobe’s Creative Cloud Software Installing ArcGis Installing AutoDesk Installing Cargo Installing Cinema 4D Installing ClimateStudio Installing DesignBuilder Installing Diva for Rhino Installing Flovent Installing GRANTA EduPack Installing Houdini Installing KeyShot Installing MasterCam Installing MathCAD Installing Miro Installing Modelo Installing Multiframe and MicroStation Installing Printers For Windows Installing Printers for Mac Installing Reality Capture Installing Render Services Installing Rhino Installing RhinoTerrain Installing RobotStudio Installing SketchUp Installing SolidWorks Installing VRay for 3DS Max Installing VRay for Rhino Installing Windows on a Mac Using Parallels International Financial Aid International Student Resources Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Alien Staff Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Bunker Hill Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Dis-Armor Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – El Centro Cultural Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Hiroshima Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Homeless Vehicle Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Loro Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Personal Instrument Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Poliscar Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Abraham Lincoln Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Admiral Farragut Monument Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Central Library Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The City Hall Tower Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Kunstmuseum Basel Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The New Mechelenians Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – The Real Estate Projection Interrogative Design: Selected Works of Krzysztof Wodiczko – Vehicle Irving Innovation Fellowship J J-Term Jacob Weidenman Prize James Templeton Kelley Prize Job Search Resources: Planning, Urban Design, Real Estate Julia Amory Appleton Traveling Fellowship in Architecture K KPF Traveling Fellowship Kevin V. Kieran Prize Key Requests L Landscape Architecture Landscape Architecture Faculty Office Hours Landscape Architecture Thesis Prize Leave of Absence Leaves/Withdrawals and Tuition Charges Library Access & Borrowing Library Liaisons Library Resources & Services Library Resources for Alumni and Visitors Library Staff Life at the GSD Limited-Enrollment Lottery LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard Live Course Presentations Living Guidebook to Virtual Teaching and Learning Living in Cambridge Loan Deferments Loeb Fellowship M MAUD/MLAUD Degree Requirements MAUD/MLAUD Student Work MArch Course Waiver and Substitution Policy and Procedures MArch Distributional Electives MArch Financial Aid MArch I AP Required Courses MArch II Required Courses MArch I Required Courses MArch Open House Schedule MArch Split Option MArch Thesis Program MDE Open House Schedule MDes Financial Aid MDes Open House Schedule MDes Research and Development Award MDes Technology MLA Degree Requirements MLA Financial Aid MLA Open House Schedule MLA Thesis Guidelines MLA Waivers and Substitutions MUP & MAUD Financial Aid MUP Degree Requirements MUP Outreach Mail Center Mail Policy Master in Architecture I Master in Architecture II Master in Design Engineering Master in Design Studies (MDes) Master in Design Studies (MDes) Pre-Fall 2021 Master in Landscape Architecture I Master in Landscape Architecture I AP Master in Landscape Architecture II Master in Real Estate Master in Urban Planning Master in Urban Planning and Juris Doctor Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Administration Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Health Master in Urban Planning and Master in Public Policy Meditation Room Mediums Microsoft Teams Mindfulness, Stress Reduction, & Time Management N NAAB Accreditation Information and Resources Narratives News News Archive Newsletter Nondiscrimination Policy Norman T. Newton Prize O Obtaining a MA State ID Card Office Hour Signup Tools Office Updates Office for Urbanization Office of Career Services Office of Student Affairs Online Registration (my.Harvard) Online Teaching Resources Open Access Policy Open Faculty Positions Open House Open Non-Faculty Academic Positions Opportunities to Recruit GSD Students Option Studio Lottery Spring 2022 Option Studio Presentations Organizational Charts Orientation and Registration for Incoming Students Other Courses of Interest Other J-Term Opportunities Outside Scholarships Outstanding Leadership in Real Estate Award P Page Lists Shortcodes Parking Participate in the Summer Community Service Fellowship Program Paul M. Heffernan International Travel Award Paying for Your Program Payroll Penny White Project Fund Performance Management Performance Management Permanent Records Personnel Manuals Person of Interest (POI) Peter Rice Internship Program at Renzo Piano Building Workshop Peter Rice Prize Peter Walker and Partners Fellowship for Landscape Architecture PhD Student Bios Photo Lab Photography Guidelines Planning Newsletter Plimpton-Poorvu Design Prize Podcasts Policy on Personal Conduct Pollman Fellowship in Real Estate and Urban Development Pre-orientation for New Students Printing Costs Printing Guide Printing Tips and Known Issues Prize for Academic Excellence in Urban Planning and Urban Design Program History Program Pedagogy Projects Protected: Poster Presentations for CSFP Fellows Public Programs Publications Publics Purchases & Expenses R REA Fund Recipients Rafael Moneo Rome Travel Award Real Estate and the Built Environment Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2017 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2018 Real Estate and the Built Environment – Required Courses 2019 Recent DDes Graduates Recent PhD graduates Recommended Backgrounds for Option Studios Recycling, Freecycling and Composting Refunds Registrar Registration Registration Procedures Replacement Diplomas Request Update to Profile Photo Requesting a GSD Subsite Requirements 2017-18 Requirements 2018-19 Research Research Administration Research Administration Resources Research Assistant (Union Position) Research Centers & Programs Research Fellow (Union Position) Research Programs & Initiatives Research Reports & Publications Resource Center Resources for New Graduates Resources for Partners and Families Respectful and Transparent Engagement Return to Campus & Technology Richard Rogers Fellowship Risk and Resilience Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2018 Risk and Resilience – Required Courses 2019 Robert A. M. Stern Architects (RAMSA) Room Reservations S Safety, Health, and Wellbeing Sample Job Posting #1 Sample Job Posting #2 Scanners Scholarships for International Students Scholarships for US Citizens and Eligible Non-citizens Seating Charts and Assigned Seating Security Shift Schedule Social Media Social Media Special Collections Special Interest Links for Architecture Students Spiritual Life Spring 2021 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2021 Thesis Review Schedule Spring 2022 Final Exam Schedule Spring 2022 Final Review Schedule Staff Awards & Recognition Staff Directory Staff Newsletter Staff Printing Stationery and Branding Student & Alumni Events Student Academic Affairs Committee Student Directory Student Employment Student Forum Student Forum Open ZOOM Room Student Group Directory Student Group Guide Student Policies Student Records and Transcript Policies Student Travel Information and Costs for Option Studios Students on Leave of Absence Studio Abroad Studio Culture Policy Studio Electricity Summer Peer-Learning Sessions Sustainability at the GSD T Takenaka Summer Internship Talking Practice Tax Resources Teaching Assistant & Research Assistant: Faculty Resources Teaching Assistant (Union Position) Teaching Fellow (Union Position) Technical and Administrative Positions (Non-union Positions) Technology Guide Technology – Required Courses 2018 Technology – Required Courses 2019 Telephones Term Bill The Office of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Title IX Tokyo Summer Workshop Topics Transcripts Transportation Travel Safety and Guidelines Traveling Fellowships Tuition Tuition and Financial Aid U UPD Faculty Office Hours UPD Thesis Guidelines Undergraduate Architecture Studies University Policies & Procedures Updating Staff Profile Photos Urban Design Faculty Profiles Urban Planning and Design Urban Planning and Design Open House Schedule Urban Planning and Design Thesis Prize Urban Planning and Public Policy Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2018 Urbanism, Landscape, Ecology – Required Courses 2019 Utilizing LinkedIn V VPN Service Veronica Rudge Green Prize in Urban Design Veteran and Military Benefits Virtual & On-Campus Events W Web: Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Web Editing: Media Web Profile Photos Wellness Resources Wheelwright Prize Who We Are Work Opportunities for Students Work Order Request Form Workshops and Personal Development 2 2020 Oct Iframe test 2021-2022 Academic Year Planning 2022 Application FAQs 2022 J-Term Courses Submit Search Resource Center Student Group Guide Starting or Renewing a Student Group Before starting a new group, please review the list of student groups at the GSD, as there may already be an established group with the same or similar focus. To start or renew a group, you will need to fill out an application. Student Groups apply to register or renew through our student activities platform, Engage. Groups can prepare for their applications by thinking through several questions: Who are your group’s leadership? Each group will need to designate a primary and secondary contact, as well as assigning the roles of treasurer and events liaison (which can be held by the primary or secondary contacts if desired). What is your group’s mission statement? Existing groups can choose to keep their current statement, but are encouraged to update to reflect any change in focus, goals, and plans for the new year. What activities is your group planning? Student group activities can range from small regular meetings up to major conferences produced in partnership with GSD administration. Most group events are small gatherings, lectures, and discussions, with a few symposia, conferences, and other ambitious plans often becoming collaborations between multiple groups. Please note that all events, even online ones, will still need to go through the events planning and approval process. Does your group have any funding needs to maintain its operations or carry out its proposed activities? Groups will have the option to make funding requests. Keep in mind that the amounts requested generally far exceed the funds available. See below for guidelines on what kinds of expenses can be funded. Please address questions about the student group application process to Erica George or to the Student Groups Chair of Student Forum. For 2021-2022, that is Junainah Ahmed. Student Group Funding Allocation from Student Forum Student Group budget requests are reviewed a committee chaired by the Student Forum Student Groups Chair and including other elected members of Student Forum. Funding decisions must be approved by Student Affairs staff. Following the allocations process, groups wishing a more thorough explanation of their specific allocation decision may inquire to the Student Groups Chair. When considering your group’s funding requests, and when spending group funds during the year, please keep in mind that student groups funding is meant to benefit all students. While each group may plan activities that focus on their members as the primary intended participants, such activities should be open to all group members, and membership in the group should be open to all GSD students. Funds allocated to groups by Student Forum cannot be used for activities that are restricted to a select few, such as for travel, or free merchandise for group leadership. Also note that funds allocated in one academic year must be spent in that academic year, and cannot be carried over to a new academic year. Other Funding Sources As part of remaining open to all GSD students, and in recognition that funds allocated to groups derive from the activities fee paid by students, GSD student groups cannot charge dues to their members. Groups may charge for admission to events in order to offset the cost of producing the event, but should endeavor to have the vast majority of group activities available without any additional cost to members. Groups may raise funds by selling merchandise. Seed funds to allow for initial purchase of merchandise to be sold can be borrowed through Student Forum through an application process to be launched on Engage mid Fall 2021. Note that part of this process includes approval of merchandise designs, particularly any use of the GSD or Harvard names or logos. Groups may seek funds from offices and centers at Harvard. These offices and centers must NOT be part of the GSD, with the sole exceptions of the Joint Center for Housing Studies and, during its application cycle each semester, the Racial Equity and Anti-Racism Fund. Each unit at Harvard may have its own internal process for requesting funds, including potential deadlines for application. Groups should notify studentgroups@gsd.harvard.edu when beginning to seek external funds, as Student Affairs staff generally need to be involved in order for funds to be successfully transferred. Groups may not seek sponsorship from offices, departments, and centers based at the GSD. Instead, the GSD has one unified approval process for seeking supplemental funds for special events, where costs necessarily exceed the amount able to be allocated to any one group by Student Forum. An application form will be available on Engage mid Fall 2021. The types of activities eligible for supplemental GSD funding may include conferences, symposia, keynote lectures, or other large special events. Types of costs may include honoraria, technology, custodial services, and security services related to an event, etc. Groups considering seeking funding from any entity outside of Harvard should speak with Student Affairs staff and receive approval before initiating any conversations with that external party. Please note that any gifts made to a GSD student group are not tax deductible donations. Engage Platform Engage is a student activities platform launched at the GSD in fall 2020. Engage is a browser-based way to manage student groups and government, and for all students to more easily connect with the groups and activities they’re interested in. In Engage, each student group has its own dedicated online presence. For many groups, this may mean no longer needing to maintain externally hosted sites, though external sites are still an option. In Engage, groups can update mission statements, leadership, and member rosters, and link to social media and other external presences. Groups can propose and be approved for events, and promote those events through an interactive events listing. Students can then add those events to their individual calendars. Groups can easily maintain files from year to year, communicate with membership, and even run leadership elections through Engage. Engage is also where group leaders go to register groups, apply for funding, and request payments/reimbursements. Policies Application and Recognition Student groups must apply each academic year to begin or renew their status as recognized groups. Only recognized groups are eligible for GSD student groups funding and other resources. Student Forum and the Office of Student Affairs review all applications, and must approve all requests for recognition. The main registration period is in September, but groups can form at any point in the year. Groups forming later should note that funding may no longer be available after the official allocations process. Groups newly forming should ensure their proposed group name accurately reflects the group’s status as a student-led, GSD-based group. Use of the word “student” or “club” in the group name is often helpful for that purpose. Please wait until your group name is approved before investing in resources such as website URLs. Event Proposal and Approval All GSD events go through a proposal and review process, and not all events will necessarily be approved. The GSD’s Events Committee considers many factors, including timing relative to other GSD happenings, resource availability, and event content. Even though many events are currently remote, they still must go through this process. It’s very important to note that event requests are not approved until they are officially confirmed by the Events Committee. Group leaders should review the Event Planning for Students page, and are encouraged to reach out to Student Affairs staff with any questions. Especially for any larger or ambitious events, or those with high-profile proposed participants, groups are urged to connect with Student Affairs as early as possible in the planning process. In this first semester back on campus during the pandemic, definitely check in if you are not certain where your proposed event will stand in terms of Harvard and GSD policies. Carefully review the section on in-person events on the Event Planning for Students page as you consider options for in-person group activities. All active GSD and Harvard public health policies apply to all in-person student group activities. Any activity that violates these policies will not be eligible for reimbursement from student groups funding. Further, holding an event that violates public health policies may lead to disciplinary action for both group leaders and the group itself. Groups considering in-person activities should also make note of the GSD’s Student Events Alcohol Policy and GSD Custodial Policy for Events. Keep in mind that adhering to these policies can sometimes add unforeseen costs to a planned event. Additional ways unforeseen costs can accrue to in-person events include potential needs for building or event security staffing, and rental of media equipment or hiring of media services technicians. Reimbursement and Payment of Expenses The reimbursement and payment process documents your expenses, connects your expenses to your allocated funds, and demonstrates that the expenses are authorized by your group’s treasurer and in line with your group’s mission. Expenses must be submitted within 30 days of the date of the expense. Scans or photographs of receipts, including the vendor name and amount spent, are required. These documents should be in English; if they are in another language we will ask for a full translation. The reimbursement and payment process is handled through Engage. See this guide to requesting payment from your student group’s funds for more information. You can also email SFTreasurer@gsd.harvard.edu with questions. Payments generally can take a week or two from submission. If for any reason you need more immediate action, please contact SFTreasurer@gsd.harvard.edu. Our preferred method of payment is through a paper check, either picked up in person or sent through the mail. During the pandemic, and in other special cases, we have also allowed payments through Venmo and PayPal. Please note that bank transfers require significant labor and extra fees to process, and so are available only in certain special cases if there are no other viable options for payment. For larger expenses, please reach out in advance as in some cases the student affairs team can pay the expense directly. It can also be helpful to double check in advance whether a proposed large expense is indeed within our purchasing policies. Please note that the reimbursement and payment process for student groups operates differently from other Harvard University processes, with separate forms and policies. Student groups are separate entities from the university, and so the funds used to make payments for student groups are held externally, at the Harvard University Employees Credit Union (HUECU). Bank Accounts In addition to the primary account held by Student Forum, through which student group allocated expenses are reimbursed, some student groups also have bank accounts at the Harvard University Employees Credit Union (HUECU). Groups with bank accounts must complete a financial accountability statement, as well as some HUECU forms, before each year’s leadership can gain access to the account. GSD student groups that wish to be recognized and eligible for GSD funding and other resources must not maintain external bank accounts apart from those held at HUECU. If your group is interested in applying to hold a HUECU bank account, an application form will be available in Engage. Please note that these accounts are made available when a group demonstrates a need for such an account, and are not standard issue for most groups. Programs involving Minors There are specific legal issues to consider around working with minors (any person who is not yet 18 years old). If your student group is considering including minors in any programming, consult as soon as possible with Kelly Wisnaskas in the Office of Student Affairs. In some situations, background checks or other screenings are required, so it’s important to allow some time to plan. Prev Next Close Slideshow Back to top Harvard University Graduate School of Design © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Privacy Accessibility Digital Accessibility Maps Contact COVID-19 GSD API Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Sign up to receive news and information about upcoming events, exhibitions, and more. Email* Δ Version 1.11.26