Kansas State University search Search K-State web, people, directories Browse A-Z Sign in Canvas OrgCentral Navigate MyLibrary KSIS HRIS Webmail Status of ITS resources Sign in to Connect K-State home »One Stop »Virtual One Stop Virtual Connections and Engagement Vice President for Student Life Kansas State University 122 Anderson Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-0102 785-532-6237 vpsl@k-state.edu It’s your time to thrive. Whether you’re a seasoned online learner or adapting to learning from home, you’ll find all the tools you need to stay engaged with the K-State community and find success in the virtual classroom. Check this page for updates, academic and campus life resources, and tips for staying connected to your fellow students, as well as K-State faculty and staff. Please watch K-State Today and the K-State COVID-19 webpage for updates on this fluid situation. In addition, read the COVID-19 list of frequently asked questions and specific guidance for students. Ace your academics Find support for everything you need to ensure success as a student and beyond. Find more learning resources The Keep Learning Website provides class resources, practical tips and helpful information to support your online education for undergraduate and graduate students on all campuses. Tutoring and coaching Academic Coaching Tutoring Educational Supportive Services TRIO Salina Peer Tutoring Writing Center For undergraduate, graduate, and online students Manhattan Writing Center Salina Writing Center Libraries and research Manhattan libraries Salina library services Academic advising Students find and connect with your advisor through KSIS Email for Salina advising appointments International student advisors K-State Online advisors Additional support K-State First First Generation Student Success International Student and Scholar Services Student Access Center Educational Supportive Services A/Pass/Fail options Online integrity Get connected Make meaningful connections with the K-State campus community. Connect today Virtual visits Virtual meet-ups Virtual campus tours Schedule a virtual visit at Salina Student involvement Center for Student Involvement Student life at Salina Diversity and Multicultural Student Affairs K-State Student Union Career ready Career Center Entertainment #kstatestrong Marianna Kistler Beach Museum of Art Union Program Council For parents and families Parents and Family Program Summer engagement opportunities GROW/EXCITE Summer Workshop by KAWSE Visit the K-State Virtual Events Calendar for more exciting engagement opportunities! Student life Don't let physical distance prevent you from accessing K-State support services. Get support The Office of Student Life will advocate, support, and prepare students for academic, personal, and professional development. Housing and dining Housing and Dining Services Salina housing Off-campus housing support Diversity LGBT Resource Center Veteran and military connected students Non-traditional Student Services Additional services Student Legal Services Center for Child Development Stone House Early Childhood Education Center Health and safety Make your health and wellness a top priority. Be well Food pantries Cats' Cupboard Salina Cats' Corner Health Lafene Health Center Lafene CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services) Recreational Services Family Center Center for Advocacy, Response and Education (CARE) Salina Campus crisis assistance Safety K-State Police or 785-532-6412 Salina Campus Security or 785-826-2909 K-State Olathe Security or 913-307-7318 K-State Alerts Report It to report crime and concerns Paying for college Explore your options for financial assistance and support. Help is available Financial advisor Emergency financial resources Powercat Financial counseling Salina student accounts Cashiers and student accounts Tech support Get all of your questions about connecting remotely and technical support answered here. Get tech assistance IT Help Desk Email Olathe student technical support Contact us Emergency Statements and disclosures Accessibility Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506 785-532-6011 © Kansas State University Updated: 2/9/22