Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Apply News Archive Graduate School Skip to Navigation News Archive For first-year graduate students in neuroscience, a ‘magical science space’ Through an immersive eight-day workshop at the Marine Biological Lab, graduate students gain hands-on neuroscience experience and form connections. Meghan Gonsalves, a first-year neuroscience graduate student at Brown University, spends most of her time studying imaging techniques used to measure brain activity in humans. So when she was asked to dissect the brain of a fruit fly — which is roughly the size of a poppy seed — she thought she wouldn’t be able to do it. By later on the same January day, Gonsalves found herself gazing in awe at a video of a glowing fly brain. She had stained and imaged the brain using a confocal microscope to visualize neurons that affect fly behavior. “To be able to manipulate your data through a microscope is pretty crazy,” said Gonsalves, who holds both bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Brown as well. “I was really nervous doing this because I’m computational/behavioral-oriented. This shows I’m capable of doing more than I thought I was capable of.” Read more. Pappas Wins Grant From Paul Mellon Centre Allison Pappas, doctoral candidate in the History of Art and Architecture received a Research Support Grant from the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art. She is currently in England, visiting collections in London, Cambridge, and Bradford, to complete archival work for the first chapter of her dissertation, which focuses on the development of the paper photography process in England amongst a community of scientists investigating light, chemistry and optics, among many other subjects. She highlights the language used to describe this new medium, namely the "impression," and the way it shifts between associations with empirical theories of perception and printed images. The chapter is titled Photography's First Impressions: W.H.F Talbot, J.F.W. Herschel, and Experimental Rhetoric. Youn Receives American Lung Association Grant Doctoral candidate in Health Services Research, Bora Youn, has been awarded a Lung Health Dissertation Grant from the American Lung Association to investigate a new treatment approach for advanced non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly. "This award is meaningful to me as this can be the first step of being an independent researcher," says Youn. She will study the real-world impact of treatments such as novel chemotherapies, targeted therapies, and immunotherapies. She aims to examine the patterns of use, survival, and cost of treatments that are commonly used for advanced lung cancer patients receiving care in routine oncology practice. Holiday Food Drive a Success The Graduate School collected 291 pounds of food during our twelfth annual Holiday Food Drive benefitting the Rhode Island Community Food Bank. Thank you to everyone who generously donated! Third-Year MFA Student, Carlo Directs FADE at Trinity Rep FADE, a behind-the-scenes dramatic comedy, is directed by Tatyana-Marie Carlo, a third year MFA Directing candidate. She has directed a diverse body of work including: The Last Days of Judas Iscariot by Stephen Adly Guirgis, She Kills Monsters by Qui Nguyen, and Commedia de las Equivocaciónes, a bilingual Spanish/English adaptation by Kufa Castro of Shakespeare’s The Comedy of Errors. During her time in Providence, Carlo has worked closely with Trinity Rep and the Rhode Island Latino Arts on their Teatro en el Verano (Theatre in the Summer) bilingual adaptations of Shakespeare plays. Most recently Tatyana was named the 2019 Matt Harris Directing Fellow at Williamstown Theater Festival. FADE features guest artist Elia Saldana as Lucia, a Mexican-born novelist who just accepted her first job writing for television and resident acting company member and alum Daniel Duque-Estrada '13 MFA as Abel, an ex-Marine working as a janitor. The show runs December 5, 2019 – January 5, 2020. Learn more. Shamara Alhassan ’19 PhD Wins Book Prize Shamara Alhassan ’19 PhD has been awarded the National Women's Studies Association/University of Illinois Press First Book Prize for 2019. The prize is awarded for cutting-edge intersectional feminist scholarship that offers new perspectives on issues central to women’s and gender studies; recipients receive a book contract with University of Illinois Press. “Winning this Prize is a testament to the importance of Rastafari women's intellectual contributions to Rastafari studies, Africana studies, religious studies, and women's studies,” says Alhassan. She receives the award for her book manuscript, Re-Membering the Maternal Goddess: Rastafari Women's Intellectual History and Activism in the Pan-African World." Read more. New PhD Career Pathways Proctorship in Academic Administration The PhD Career Pathways Proctorship in Academic Administration offers doctoral students the opportunity to get hands-on experience in higher education administration. The proctor will join the PhD Career Pathways project, funded by the Council of Graduate Schools, to work with the Graduate School to analyze PhD career preferences and outcomes and to help faculty and university leaders strengthen career support, professional development opportunities, and mentoring. Deadline to apply is November 21, 2019. Learn more. Dissertation Writing Retreat Set for January Advanced PhD students are invited to apply to participate in a Dissertation Writing Retreat, to be held January 13-17, 2020. The retreat provides quiet space, community, writing tips and support and structured writing time. Space is limited. Charles Carroll, Interim Program Manager of the Writing Center, will lead this retreat, which pools the resources and support of the Graduate School, Sheridan Center and Libraries. Learn more. Alumni/Student Career Event Funding Available The CareerLAB invites students, student groups, departments, programs or divisions to apply for alumni career event funding. These events are intended to bring together alums and current students for career exploration and networking. Proposals should encourage students to consider the diversity of career options available to masters and doctoral students. Grants are available from $300-$5,000. Learn more. Jotischky-Hull Wins Modern Greek Studies Essay Prize Christopher Jotischky-Hull, a PhD student in Classics, was awarded the Modern Greek Studies Association Victor Papacosma Essay Prize for his essay entitled, The Crowning of the Lyre: Andréas Kálvos and the Appropriation of Pindaric Imagery in Nineteenth-Century Greek Diasporic Poetics. Given to the best graduate student essay on a Greek subject, the Prize is awarded on a biennial schedule to coincide with the MGSA Symposium. Read more. « first ‹ previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants