Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Campus Recreation Campus Recreation right arrow down arrow Hours & Schedules right arrow down arrow Campus Recreation Center (CRC) Fitness Center at CARE/Crawley Aquatics Fitness Classes Intramurals Climbing Wall Severe Weather Policy COVID-19 Operations right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Map Virtual Resources Visit right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow Fitness Floor Orientation Equipment Tutorials Parking Facility Hours Terms & Conditions Lockers & Towels Pro Shop FAQ Things To Do right arrow down arrow Fitness Classes right arrow down arrow Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing right arrow down arrow Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Rules right arrow down arrow Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp right arrow down arrow Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Membership right arrow down arrow Rates & Discounts Fitness Floor Orientation Terms & Conditions Facilities & Rentals right arrow down arrow Facility Rentals Birthday Parties Process Rates Policies Reservation Jobs right arrow down arrow Staff Directory Student Employment Home » Campus Life » Campus Recreation » Things To Do » REC Kids Camp » Parent/Guardian Guide Set Navigation title in component Fitness Classes Online Fitness Fitness Programs & Special Events 30 Minute Workout Area Personal Training Trainings & Certifications Aquatics Climbing Policies & Waiver Intramural Sports Intramural Sports Rules Intramural Sports Handbook 3-on-3 Basketball 5-on-5 Basketball 7-on-7 Football 7-on-7 Soccer 11-on-11 Soccer 4-on-4 Volleyball 6-on-6 Volleyball Dodgeball Futsal Kickball Pickleball Softball Spikeball Tennis Ultimate Wallyball FAQ Racquetball REC Kids Camp Parent/Guardian Guide Team Building Pickleball Parent/Guardian Guide Welcome Dear REC Kids Families, Words cannot express our excitement to be able to offer REC Kids programming in 2022 following our last summer camp in 2019 due to COVID. With this comes many new faces and plenty of returning faces. Our mission is to provide your child with an exciting, well-rounded recreation experience. REC Kids Camp is structured to emphasize your child’s development and education while promoting healthy lifestyles among school-aged children. Contact Information Contacting Your Child During Camp right arrow down arrow If you have an emergency and need to contact your child during the camp, call the Member Services Desk at 513-556-0604. We will get the message to your child as promptly as possible. Contacting an Administrator right arrow down arrow The best way to communicate with full-time staff is by e-mailing reckids@uc.edu. Administrators float throughout camp during the day. If you have an emergency and need immediate assistance, please call the front desk at 513-556-0604. Full-Time Staff: Mike Dickinson, Coordinator of Intramural Sports & Camps, michael.dickinson@uc.edu, 513-556-5729 Drew Salvador, Assistant Director of Intramural Sports & Camps, drew.salvador@uc.edu, 513-556-0603 Phone Numbers, E-mails, and Address right arrow down arrow Member Services (Front Desk) 513-556-0604 Fax Number 513-556-0601 Express Pickup Line (Text Message Only) 513-400-4021 Main REC Kids E-mail Address reckids@uc.edu Mailing Address REC Kids Camp UC Campus Recreation Center 2820 Bearcat Way PO Box 210017 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0017 Staff Trainings & Certifications right arrow down arrow Camp is under the supervision of recreation professional staff members and counselors. All counselors are college students. Each staff member is first aid/CPR/AED certified, belay certified, and concussion recognition certified. All camp staff go through interviews, reference checks, an annual sex offender registry check, and must pass Ohio Criminal History fingerprint and FBI national background checks. Other topics included in staff training include (but are not limited to): bullying prevention & recognition, child development, special needs accommodations, sensitive subjects, discipline, conflict resolution, communicable diseases, supervision standards, child abuse recognition and reporting, and active listening. Camper to Staff Ratio right arrow down arrow The camper-to-staff ratio is never more than 9:1. Registration Eligibility right arrow down arrow REC Kids programs are available to rising 1st-8th graders. Physical, emotional, and social maturity vary by age and gender, so campers will be grouped according to their grade. This allows us to provide activities suited to the varying ages of children. How to Register right arrow down arrow Submit the registration request form at uc.edu/reckids. You will receive a confirmation e-mail within one business day. Pay initial balance online (instructions will be in your confirmation e-mail). Summer Camp - A $40 deposit per week, per child is the minimum initial payment due. You may choose to pay the full balance as well. Non-summer Camps - The full balance is due at the time of confirmation. Submit forms at least two weeks in advance of the camp event. (Summer Camp Only) - If paying deposits intiailly, pay the remaning balance at least two weeks in advance of each camp week. Forms right arrow down arrow Camp forms must be submitted at least two weeks in advance of the camp event. These forms will be given to parents/guardians in the confirmation e-mail. Campers will not be permitted to participate in REC Kids Camp programming unless forms are submitted and complete. Expiration: If attending multiple camps (i.e. Summer Camp + Spring Break Camp), forms expire one (1) year from the date signed. Families will need to complete new forms each year. Waitlists right arrow down arrow Being placed on a waitlist does not require a deposit or payment. Parents/guardians will be contacted should a spot open up for the desired event/week. If a spot opens up, an administrator will contact a family by phone and e-mail. In order to be respectful of others on the waitlist, a family will have two business days to make a decision whether or not to accept the spot. You may also e-mail reckids@uc.edu to remove your family from a waitlist. Payment Policies Fees & Discounts right arrow down arrow All REC Kids Camp programs have a member rate (for UC Campus Recreation Members) and non-member rate. For summer camp families with multiple children, after the first child all additional siblings receive a 10% discount on the cost of summer camp registration. Siblings must be registered in the same summer camp week to receive the discount Summer Camp Balance Payments Due Date right arrow down arrow If not paying in full, each week's balance is due two weeks in advance. A week's balance must be paid in full prior to a child's participation in camp for that week. Summer Camp Missing/Late Payments right arrow down arrow Late payments may be assessed a $10 fee per child, per week. Missing payments may result in cancellation of the reservation. Administrators will e-mail parents and guardians payment reminders. Summer Camp Automatic Payment Form (Optional) right arrow down arrow Parents and guardians may elect to enroll in automatic payments for summer camp balances using a credit card. To enroll: Complete and submit (see contact information above for methods) the form that was included with the registration confirmation e-mail at least two weeks in advance of your first camp week. A camp administrator will reach out to you to place your credit card on file. Your credit card will be charged the amounts due on the dates listed. You will receive an receipt via e-mail. Summer Camp Deposits right arrow down arrow At the time of summer camp registration, parents and guardians may elect to pay the entire balance or a $40 deposit per week per child to hold the desired spot(s). This non-refundable, non-transferrable deposit will be deducted from a camp week's balance upon payment. Refund Policy right arrow down arrow Parents and guardians requesting a refund 14 days or more in advance of the camp week will be given a full refund minus a $40 deposit. Refunds requested between 1-13 days prior to the camp week will be given a 50% refund. Once the camp week has begun, there will be no refunds. For check and cash payments over $80, please allow two to four weeks for a refund check to be e-mailed. Financial Assistance/Vouchers right arrow down arrow Unfortunately REC Kids Camp does not offer financial assistance or accept Hamilton County vouchers. Camp Policies Camp Rules right arrow down arrow Our camp rules are founded on respect for one another. Please review these rules with your child prior to their first day of camp: Respect each other. Respect the building. Be a good sport. Have fun! Visiting Your Child at Camp right arrow down arrow We understand many of our parents/guardians work at UC and would like to drop in to see how their camper is doing. For the safety of our campers, parents/guardians are not permitted in camp areas unless otherwise specified. If you would like to visit your child during the day or sign them out for lunch, please let us know ahead of time, and we will escort your child to front desk. Absences right arrow down arrow If your child will miss the camp day or an extended amount of time for any reason including illness, please e-mail us at reckids@uc.edu. This will help with our planning for the day. Please note we do not offer refunds for days/hours not attended. Valuables right arrow down arrow We request that your child leave all items of sentimental or monetary value at home. The University of Cincinnati and its’ staff will not be held responsible for lost or stolen items. We HIGHLY recommend the following be left at home: handheld video games, tablets, digital cameras, laptops. If your child has lost something, please e-mail us, and we will do our best to locate the item. All lost and found items will be donated to charity three weeks after the last camp week. Should your camper bring electronics to camp, designated electronics time is during our unstrucutred drop-off (7:30-9:15am) and pickup (4:00-5:30pm) times. During these time periods, campers may use electronics or the provided games, toys, and art materials while campers get dropped off/picked up. Discipline right arrow down arrow REC Kids Camp Staff understand that that there may be a time when a camper has a difficult day. First and foremost, we want to quickly resolve any conflicts and keep your child involved in the activities. REC Kids Camp Staff will adhere to the following guidelines and procedures and reserves the right to skip any of these steps depending on the situation's severity. First Offense - Warning: The camper will be notified of his or her behavior and given cues to correct the behavior. Second Offense - Timeout: A staff member will address the situation with the child and have him or her sit out for a pre-determined amount of time. Following the time-out, the staff member will give him or her cues to correct the behavior and communicate further consequences should the child continue the behavior. The staff member will complete the discipline form, including all past instances of discipline. The discipline form will be given to the parent upon pick-up. Third Offense - Trip to the Camp Office: The staff member and the camper will meet a camp administrator and discuss the camper’s behavior and future consequences. The staff member will complete the discipline form, including all past instances of discipline. The discipline form will be given to the parent upon pick-up. Fourth Offense - Meeting with Parent/Guardian: A camp administrator will contact the parent or guardian of the child and arrange a meeting. The camp staff member will complete an additional discipline form which will be reviewed in the meeting along with camper expectations and possible future consequences. The camper may need to be picked up from camp early. Fifth Offense - Suspension or Expulsion: Suspensions will range from the remainder of a day to multiple days or expulsion. The Camp Day Drop-Off & Pickup Location & Map right arrow down arrow The drop-off & pickup location is 45 W Daniels St, Cincinnati, OH 45219. REC Kids Camp will utilize the ground level of Daniels Hall during standard drop-off and pickup times. There are a limited number of temporary parking spots, so we ask that you do not park for an extended amount of time. If you will be staying on campus and need extended parking, please park in an appropriate garage. Please review the drop-off/pickup map prior to your first camp day. Standard Drop-Off Instructions (7:30-9:15am) right arrow down arrow Between 7:30am and 9:15am, camp staff will be onsite at 45 W Daniels St. You do not need to present photo ID or sign anything at drop-off. Please let the camp administrator know if you will be picking up your child early (before 4:00pm) so we may have them ready for you. If you work at UC and would prefer to drop-off to the recreation center's front desk, please note there will not be any campers/staff in the building until roughly 8:10am (they will be at Daniels Hall). Late Drop-Off Instructions (after 9:15am) right arrow down arrow If you need to drop off your child late, please proceed to the drop-off location at 45 West Daniels St. and either text us at 513-400-4021 or call us at 513-556-0604. It takes us a few minutes to walk from the recreation center to this location, so to save time, please text or call when you are 10-15 minutes away. Early Pickup Instructions (Before 4:00pm) right arrow down arrow If you need to pick up your child before 4:00pm, please let us know at drop-off (ideal) or by texting 513-400-4021 at least 15 minutes in advance or by calling 513-556-0604 at least 15 minutes in advance so we can ensure your child is ready to be picked up at the specified time at the pickup location (45 West Daniels St). Please keep in mind that we have scheduled camp activities up until 4:00p.m. Anyone picking up a camper must be on the camp forms as a parent/guardian, emergency contact, or authorized pickup. To add individuals to your authorized pickups, please e-mail their first and last names to reckids@uc.edu. A camp administrator will verify photo ID upon pickup, and the adult will need to sign the attendance sheet each day. Please bring photo ID with you each day, as we may have different administrators working outside throughout the summer. Standard Pickup Instructions (4:00-5:30pm) right arrow down arrow Between 4:00 pm and 5:30 pm, campers and staff will be located at 45 W Daniels St. Anyone picking up a camper must be on the camp forms as a parent/guardian, emergency contact, or authorized pickup. To add individuals to your authorized pickups, please e-mail their first and last names to reckids@uc.edu. A camp administrator will verify photo ID upon pickup, and the adult will need to sign the attendance sheet each day. Please bring photo ID with you each day, as we may have different administrators working outside throughout the summer. After 5:30pm / Late Pickup Fees right arrow down arrow Please note we do not have the ability for pickup after 5:30pm. Campers getting picked up after 5:30pm may incur a $1 per late minute charge. Activities & Sample Schedule right arrow down arrow Camp activities include, but are not limited to arts & crafts, sports, board & card games, indoor climbing, indoor pool games, free swim, camper club, and team building activities. Summer camp weeks include additional activities including thematic activities and sports, Friday special events, and counselor challenges. Here is an example of a daily schedule. Please note schedule times and activities are subject to change based on the day and group: Sample Camp Day Schedule Time Event/Activity 7:30-9:15am Drop-Off / Free Play Activities 9:15-9:30am Morning Welcome / Introduction to the Day 9:30-10:30am Arts & Crafts, Sports or Themed Activities 10:30-10:45am Snack 10:45am-12:00pm Arts & Crafts, Sports or Themed Activities 12:00-12:30pm Lunch 12:45-1:15pm Games 1:15-1:30pm Locker Rooms 1:30-2:30pm Swimming 2:30-2:45pm Locker Rooms 2:45-3:00pm Snack 3:00-3:45pm Arts & Crafts, Sports or Themed Activities 3:45-4:00pm Travel to Daniels Hall 4:00-5:30pm Pickup / Free Play Activities What to Bring right arrow down arrow We recommend that as much as possible, belongings are labeled with your camper's first and last names. REC Kids Camp will not be held responsible for lost and stolen items. Items to Bring: Lunch - REC Kids Camp does not provide lunch. Lunches will be placed in a refridgerator prior to scheduled lunch time. Please do not send your child with food that needs to be reheated or money to buy lunch. Swimsuit and towel - Campers will swim at least four days out of the week. If your child does not wish to swim, please send them with a non-electronic activity (or we have some available) such as a book, craft project, or workbook. Gym bag or backpack Swim goggles / swim flip flops or sandals (optional) - REC Kids Camp does not provide goggles or footwear for the pool. Water bottle (optional) - REC Kids Camp will have water available throughout the day including coolers in the classroom and water fountains around the facility. Sun protection (optional) - REC Kids Camp provides SPF 50 spray sunscreen, however if your child has specific sunscreen needs, you may wish to send your own. Snacks (optional) - REC Kids Camp provides two snacks per day. If your child has dietary restrictions, please denote these on your camp forms. You may also send non-refridgerated camp snacks as a replacement. What to Wear right arrow down arrow Children should dress appropiately and comfortably for the days activities. We recommend wearing sneakers and athletic apparel. Different areas of the building may be colder than other areas, so it may be helpful to send a light jacket or sweatshirt. For swim time, please send a swim suit and towel with your camper. Campers do not need to wear swimwear underneath their clothing. Birthdays right arrow down arrow If your camper is celebrating a birthday, and you would like to bring in treats, feel free to e-mail reckids@uc.edu if you need information regarding your camper's group's dietary restrictions and numbers. Swimming & Lessons Swimming right arrow down arrow All campers will swim at least four days a week in the leisure pool. This pool has a zero depth entry and reaches a maximum depth of three feet, six inches. In addition to camp staff, two lifeguards will monitor children during camp swim times. Lifejackets are available, and parents/guardians may request them by letting an administrator know at drop-off or by e-mailing reckids@uc.edu. Locker Rooms right arrow down arrow Before and after swim times, campers will change in the main locker rooms according to their gender identity. Prior to changing, camp staff will do a walkthrough and identify a vacant bay for campers to change in. Camp staff will stand towards the entrance of the bay and ensure proper supervision. When changing for swim time, camp staff will change in a separate or private area. If your camper needs an accommodation regarding changing time, please e-mail us at reckids@uc.edu. Swim Lessons right arrow down arrow For an additional cost, parents/guardians may register for camp swim lessons. For the weekly fee, campers will receive four 35-minute, small group lessons with certified American Red Cross swim instructors. A camper must be registered for camp in the week that he or she is registered for camp swim lessons. To ensure campers attend classes appropriate to their skill level, an evaluation of their skills will be performed on the first day of lessons. Campers enrolled in swim lessons will still get free swim time, however depending on their swim level it may be shorter than the rest of their group's free swim time. Online progress reports will be e-mailed to the primary parent/guardian. These online documents will be updated by swim instructors so you may see your child's progress as the summer goes on. American Red Cross Swim Lesson Skill Levels Level Description 1 Introduction to Water Skills: Participants learn beginning water skills that they will build on throughout the program. Some skills taught include front and back floats and going under water. - 2 Fundamental Aquatic Skills: Participants work with fundamental skills that include learning to float without support and recovering to a vertical position. Participants also explore simultaneous and alternating arm and leg actions to lay the foundation for learning strokes. 3 Stroke Development: Participants are introduced to front crawl, back crawl, treading water, diving, safe diving rules, and elements of the butterfly stroke. 4 Stroke Improvement: This level develops confidence in the strokes learned thus far and improves other aquatic skills. Participants are introduced to elementary backstroke, breaststroke, sidestroke, and turning at the wall. 5 Stroke Refinement: Participants work on refining all strokes and increasing their ability to swim greater distances. They also learn front and back flip turns. Medical Policies Accidents & Emergencies right arrow down arrow In the case of an injury or accident involving your child, camp administrators will call each number listed. In the case of a life-threatening medical emergency, advanced medical personnel will be summoned. All members of the camp staff have current CPR, AED and First Aid certifications and have also been trained in emergency procedures at all locations. Should the parents/guardians not be available, we will contact the listed emergency contact. COVID-19 Considerations / Illnesses right arrow down arrow REC Kids Camp will follow all University COVID-19 protocols. In line with current University protocol: There is no vaccine mandate for camp families including campers and parents/guardians. Beginning with the 2022 summer term, the university no longer requires but strongly recommends faculty, staff and students receive COVID-19 vaccines. Facial coverings are optional. Should University protocol change, camp families will be alerted. In the case of symptoms of illness, an affected camper will be separated from other children and supervised by a camp administrator. The parent/guardian will be contacted to pick up their child. If your child exhibits symptoms of COVID-19, we ask that you keep the child at home. Requesting Medication Administration right arrow down arrow Parents/Guardians with children who need camp staff to administer medications must submit a medication authorization form. This form will be e-mailed in the registration confirmation e-mail. In addition, parents/guardians may e-mail reckids@uc.edu to set up a time to discuss with an administrator if additional instructions are needed. Concussion Protocol right arrow down arrow REC Kids Camp is required by law to distribute a concussion information sheet annually. This informational sheet will be e-mailed to each family per event. REC Kids Camp will follow the following protocol in the event that a camper is suspected to have a concussion: The camper will be removed from physical activity if he or she exhibits any of symptoms of a concussion during physical activity. The parent/guardian will be called after the initial assessment. Should the camper exhibit at least one (1) symptom, the camper cannot return to physical activity on the same day that he or she is removed. The camper is not permitted to return to physical activity until they have been assessed by a physician (MD or DO). The physician's office must submit a return to play letter or communication to reckids@uc.edu including the camper’s name and the date the camper is cleared to return to physical activity/camp. For more information regarding concussions, parents may visit Ohio's Concussion Information website. Miscellaneous Accommodations right arrow down arrow If your camper needs accommodations, please contact us at reckids@uc.edu at least three weeks in advance of your camp event. Summer Camp Newsletters right arrow down arrow A weekly newsletter will be sent out every Friday. This newsletter will include a recap of the current week, important information, and a preview of the following week. This newsletter is sent out during summer camp only. Summer Camp Online Schedules right arrow down arrow Prior to each camp week, group schedules will be communicated to families enrolled in that week. This information can be found in the weekly newsletter send out the Friday beforehand. Please do not share these links with other individuals. Summer Camp Online Photo Albums & Online Lost & Found right arrow down arrow Photos will be taken throughout each summer camp week and put online in a secure, private album. Parents and guardians will receive a link to each week's private album. Please do not share these photos with individuals outside of REC Kids programming or post on social media if the photo includes other campers. In addition, the online photo gallery will include a lost & found album. This album will be updated weekly. If you recognize an item and are no longer attending the camp, please e-mail reckids@uc.edu to arrange pickup. All lost & found items will be donated to charity three weeks after each event. Tax Information/EIN right arrow down arrow For those who wish to claim REC Kids expenses for tax purposes, please use the University of Cincinnati EIN number: 31-6000989. Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 campusrec@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Campus Recreation Center | 2820 Bearcat Way | Cincinnati OH 45221 | 513-556-0604 Fitness Center at Care Crawley | 3230 Eden Avenue | Cincinnati OH 45267 | 513-558-0604 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top