Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Graduate College Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Application Programs Contact Mission Prospective Application Application for Nondegree Application Fee / Waivers Available Programs Connect With Us Frequently Asked Questions Request more information Funding International Students International Instructions English Requirements University Resources Current Students Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate College Handbook Graduation New Student Orientation New Student Checklist Program Handbooks Program of Study / Committee Theses & Dissertations You and Your Major Professor Funding Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Graduate & Professional Student Senate Student Forms Student Tools University Resources Faculty and Staff Academic Awards & Events Academic Information Events & Deadlines Graduate Program Review Graduate College Handbook Mentoring & Advising Online & Paper Forms Funding Graduate Tools Program Contacts (DOGE List) Program Handbooks Postdoctoral Getting Started Postdoctoral Scholar Resources Principal Investigator Resources Academic Awards Benefits Policies Postdoctoral Appointments Postdoctoral Association Postdoctoral Contact People (PCP) Professional Development Career Services Center for Communication Excellence Grant Writing Diversity Faculty Funding Recruiting Practices Mentoring Student George Jackson Symposium McNair Student Associations Diversity in the Graduate College Home > Diversity The excellence we experience in our classrooms and labs is, in large part, tied to Iowa State’s commitment to diversity. A wide range of perspectives spurs creativity, which is essential to strong scholarship and research. Our goal is to have diversity at ISU extend beyond our campus, thereby enriching Ames and the surrounding region. The Graduate College works to increase diversity, to support students, and to ensure that access to graduate study is possible. At ISU, you will find a wide range of services to help you achieve your goals. They include the Mentoring Program for First Year Underrepresented Students, the Graduate Assistantship Program (GMAP), and the dedicated professional staff of the Graduate College. The networks of opportunity are not limited to campus. They can be found in surrounding communities where many ISU graduate students contribute their time and talents to help others. You can read the biographies of the students below by clicking on the image. ➤ Graduate College 1137 Pearson Hall 505 Morrill Rd Ames, IA 50011 grad_college@iastate.edu 515-294-4531 phone Facebook Twitter Linkedin Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...