Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | Advocate for Florida State Webmail Search FSU Navigation FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU Skip to main content Advocate for Florida State Home Priorities Legislative Priorities Preeminence Archive Contact Your Legislators News FSU Highlights Talking Points FSU News Legisletter Experts Guide Governance Governance Florida Governor Florida House of Rep. Florida Senate Board of Governors Department of Education FSU Board of Trustees Governmental Relations Partners Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Partners Seminole Caucus Legislative Liaisons Governmental Relations Alumni Association Seminole Boosters FSU Foundation The Ringling State University System Partners Seminole Caucus The Seminole Caucus is a group of legislators who are graduates of Florida State (indicated with an asterisk) or supporters of the University. Legislative Liaisons The Legislative Liaisons is a campus network of faculty and staff members from multiple departments on campus who assist the Office of Governmental Relations when legislative issues arise that require their department’s input. Governmental Relations The Office of Governmental Relations is the liaison between all levels of government and The Florida State University community. Special emphasis is placed on monitoring the Florida legislative process, from which the University receives a majority of its funding. Alumni Association The Alumni Association is the direct support organization for FSU Alumni. The FSU Alumni Association keeps the Seminole family connected to the university in meaningful ways though service, programs, recognitions and communications. Seminole Boosters Seminole Boosters, Inc., is the direct support organization for FSU athletics, charged with generating current and deferred contributions for the purposes of enriching the overall educational environment of the Seminole Athletic Program. FSU Foundation The Florida State University Foundation is a non-profit organization enhancing the academic vision and priorities of Florida State University through its organized fundraising activities and funds management. The Ringling The Ringling is the State Art Museum of Florida and is administered by Florida State University. It features an art museum, historic mansion, circus museum, historic theater, conservation laboratory, and research library, situated on sixty-six acres of spectacular bay front property in Sarasota. State University System The State University System of Florida is the higher education system made up of the12 public universities that fall under the purview of the Board of Governors. Office of Governmental Relations 216 Westcott Tallahassee, FL 32306-1440 Telephone: 850-644-4453 or FAX: 850-644-2888 Share: Connect: Facebook © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media