Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Office of the Dean Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean Menu Search for: Home Katie Hope, Executive Dean for Administration Jane Kim, Dean for Academic Affairs Erin Driver-Linn, Dean for Education Amarildo “Lilu” Barbosa, Chief Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging Officer Patricia Geli, Executive Director, Reform for Resilience Commission’s North America Hub Stephanie Simon, Vice Dean for Strategic Communications History of the Office Staff 2021 Events COVID-19: A Dose of Reality – Spring 2021 Series 2020 Events 2020 Post-Election Harvard Chan Events Dean’s Distinguished Lecture – Hon. Julie Bishop When Public Health Means Business Series #FirstRespondersFirst: The Path Forward April 21, 2020 – COVID-19: Where do we go from here? March 5, 2020 – Inaugural Joseph S. Agyepong Distinguished Lecture on Public Health in Africa Past Events Dean’s Distinguished Lecture Series 2004 – 2008 2009 – 2010 2010 – 2011 2011 – 2012 2012 – 2013 2013 – 2014 2014 – 2015 2015-2016 2018 October 28: 400 Years of Inequality Special Event – Oct. 10 – Stigma and Access to Treatment Special Event – Sept. 27 – The Price of Free Sept. 18: Dean’s Distinguished Book Presentation: William Haseltine 3 Reports – April 1, 2019 4 Decades, 3 Mentees, 2 Deans, One Goal: Delivering on the Promise of Global Health Equity Living the Life You Didn’t Dream of Global Disease Outbreaks: Shaping Public Health Infrastructure & Investments A Plastic Ocean Screening and Panel Discussion Worldwide Week 2017 Organizing for Health: People, Power and Change Science Communication Lecture Series Milton J. Rosenau Lectures HUBweek: Four Global Health Threats, Four Global Health Opportunities – October 5, 2015 Centennial Commencement Events — May 28, 2014 Centennial Time Capsule Celebration and Reception Living and Learning: From Personal Experience to Global Health Seminar Series Symposia Yerby Postdoctoral Fellowship Program Symposium Disasters and Development in South Asia Panel 1: Disaster Mitigation and Management Agenda Panel Descriptions Panel 2: Aid Accountability Panel 3: Media Engagement Confirmed Speakers Registration Harvard Chan Students for Nepal Support Directions and Logistics Contact Information Centennial Women Leaders in Public Health Lecture Series Addressing Ebola: A Series on the 2014 Outbreak Suggestion Box Messages Community messages The Dean’s blog Contact Us A call to action from Dean Michelle Williams This is a crucial moment for public health in the United States and around the world, and we at the Harvard Chan School have an imperative to both serve and lead. We must confront the many challenges that threaten global health. We must develop creative and pragmatic solutions. We must empower both systemic change and individual action. To borrow a phrase from Toni Morrison, we must work toward the world as it ought to be. Supporting and strengthening our community The Dean’s Office is here to give you the support you need—as faculty, as students, as staff—to accomplish those bold goals. We support you as you explore new ideas and generate new knowledge. And we support you in translating those insights into policies and practices that make a difference for the world. Here’s how we intend to strengthen our community in the coming year across three critical dimensions: People We have brought together extraordinary talent at Harvard Chan. This year, we will continue our ongoing drive to recruit faculty, staff, and students who bring diverse perspectives and a deep commitment to our community and to the cause of public health. For students, our focus is boosting financial aid, expanding fellowships, and providing more hands-on, field-based learning opportunities. Faculty will see increased institutional support for junior faculty and an investment in pioneering, multidisciplinary research initiatives. Ideas We are tackling the most critical challenges facing our planet, including deadly outbreaks of infectious disease; the fatal consequences of global warming; inequity, injustice, and the trauma and violence that follow. This year, we are driving with fierce urgency to turn knowledge into action—action that will save lives. We will optimize resources across the School to advance critical research and education. Another crucial focus: Effectively communicating our insights to policy makers and the public at large as we mobilize as a society to face these emergent challenges. Infrastructure To achieve our goals, we need more than labs and classrooms. This year, we will improve the institutional support that positions our faculty to win highly competitive grants; bolster platforms that promote team-based and interdepartmental research; and build on the exceptional quality of education at Harvard Chan. We will also strengthen our development and communications infrastructure to enable this growth. At the start of the academic year, I wrote to our community: More than anything, I’m in awe of how each of you has risen to meet this very moment. It’s certainly easy to feel overwhelmed by the sheer magnitude of the unprecedented global health challenges before us. But those challenges are the reason we’re all here—and precisely why we’re called to public health. And from what I’ve witnessed this last year-plus, nothing has deterred you. Instead, you are motivated. You’ve chosen to run toward some of the greatest threats we face in today’s world—and you are poised to make a powerful impact and lasting contribution. It is such a privilege to lead this community. I look forward to our work together to build the world that ought to be. Michelle A. Williams, ScD Dean of the Faculty Read the Dean’s messages to the Harvard Chan community Read the Dean’s blog Selected news, opinion articles, and events Building scientific talent in the Global South can help prevent future public health crises Opinion | May 8, 2022 Read here The right to an abortion can be saved Opinion | May 5, 2022 Read here Claiming a Seat at the Table: How Nursing Leaders Can Shape Global Health Event | April 14, 2022 Watch here ESG is not enough. It’s time to add an H Opinion | March 14, 2022 Read here Our public health system needs an overhaul — Congress can start here Opinion | February 21, 2022 Read here Biden has failed to defeat covid-19 as promised. Here’s how he must shift his strategy Opinion | January 24, 2022 Read here Dean Williams on Twitter Today is the last day to submit your input on the #HealthWorkforceNationalPlan. I stand by @theNAMedicine and… https://t.co/gXwGH4xeWa The microbiologist @TheLancet described as Africa's veteran ebola hunter @JeanMuyembe accepted an honorary degree f… https://t.co/dDf5VDyL79 RT @HarvardChanSPH: Convocation Speaker Mamphela Ramphele is an activist, doctor, and scholar who co-founded The Black Consciousness Moveme… Thank you, Trishan. As always, inspiring words! #HarvardChan22 https://t.co/raq6Cm2g7O I am so sorry to miss commencement celebrations – it is my favorite week of the academic year. I am watching and ch… https://t.co/OoQhsWIMjg As we reach out to the people of Uvalde, TX after the brutality at Robb Elementary, we must offer more than words –… https://t.co/VlLVNEjasC News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website