Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Search BC.edu Links Romance Languages Menu Main Nav Romance Languages and Literatures Department Romance Languages Contact Back Back Close About Overview News and Notes Contact Giving to Romance Languages and Literatures People Overview Faculty Openings Undergraduate Overview Majors and Minors Course Offerings Language Programs French Curriculum and Courses Language Requirement Major and Minor in French Other Opportunities to Learn French on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ and Useful Links Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Portuguese Why Learn Portuguese? Spanish Where to Start Language Requirement General Guidelines for Placement Get Ready for the Semester Coordinators Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Hispanic Studies Other Opportunities to Learn Spanish on Campus Study and Work Abroad FAQ Language Placement Language Requirement For Language Instructors Honors Program Undergraduate Honors Theses Current Year - 2002 Honors Theses 1986-2001 Honor Societies Study Abroad Teach Abroad Academic Integrity Graduate Overview Master of Arts Programs Course Offerings Graduate Resources Nguyen Prize for Academic Excellence Nguyen Research Travel Prize Nguyen Fund for Graduate Student Professional Formation Ecole Normale Supérieure Exchange Graduate Funding Our Students Graduate Degree Recipients Previous Degree Recipients Career Paths of Doctoral Graduates Career Paths of Masters Graduates Ph.D. Dissertations Graduate Conference Language Careers Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Romance Languages and Literatures Home Undergraduate Language Programs Italian Major and Minor in Italian Italian Why Study Italian? Language Requirement Curriculum and Courses Major and Minor in Italian Study Abroad FAQ Major and Minor in Italian An Italian Studies major assures exceptional competence in Italian, allowing students to work extensively and closely with literary and cultural artifacts that language makes possible. Building on their linguistic proficiency consolidated in the language program, majors expand that proficiency to a wide variety of Italian texts. This training exercises and assures our students' ability to analyze texts and contexts, as well as to conceive, articulate, and defend an original idea. Italian Studies minors reap similar benefits, albeit to a lesser extent, by attaining linguistic proficiency and taking at least two advanced courses. Language Courses for the Major and Minor Students begin the program at the level most appropriate for their linguistic proficiency. For advisement about elementary and intermediate level placement, contact Prof. Brian O’Connor (oconnobc@bc.du). For advisement at the post-intermediate level, contact Prof. Mattia Acetoso (acetoso@bc.edu). Italian Studies majors and minors may begin their program with Conversation, Composition and Reading I (ITAL 2213) or II (ITAL 2214). Major Minor Major Requirements 30 Credits (10 three-credit courses), which must include: 18 credits (6 advanced courses) in Italian literature or culture (5000 level and above) 12 credits (4 elective courses) to be chosen from the following: ITAL 2213 and ITAL 2214 Italian Conversation, Composition and Reading I and II (as entry-level courses only) Additional courses at the 5000 or 8000 level. Related courses with departmental permission. Notes and Conditions An Advanced Placement high school course in Italian with an exam score of 4 or 5 will count toward the Italian Studies major as 1 three-credit elective. Italian Studies majors are required to enroll in at least one advanced course (5000 level and above) each semester of their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the ten-course requirement for the major. One-credit practicum courses do not count for the major. Maximum total transfer credit toward the major from study abroad: 15 credits (5 three-credit courses) for one year of study; 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Italian Studies major will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Italian; (2) of a sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Italian-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. Students who transfer 9 credits (3 three-credit courses) or more from study abroad or elsewhere outside the department must take their remaining courses towards the major in the department. Students who do not study abroad may take up to two courses related to their major program of study outside the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, with departmental permission. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by-case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the Italian Studies section. Minor Requirements 18 Credits (6 three-credit courses), which must include: 6 credits (2 foundation courses): ITAL 2213 and ITAL 2214 (Italian Composition, Conversation and Reading I and II) 12 credits (4 advanced courses) in Italian Literature or Culture at the 5000 or 8000 level Notes and Conditions An Advanced Placement high school courses in Italian with an exam score of 4 or 5 will count toward the Italian Studies minor as 1 three-credit elective. Italian Studies minors must enroll in one advanced course (5000 level or above) during their senior year, regardless of whether they have completed the six-course requirement for the minor. 1-credit practicum courses do not count for the minor. Maximum transfer credit toward a minor from study abroad: 9 credits (3 approved three-credit courses) for one year of study; 6 credits (2 approved three-credit courses) for one semester of study. No RLL credit will be granted for courses abroad conducted in English taken during a semester or academic year program. Credit toward the Italian Studies minor will be granted for courses taken abroad (1) conducted in Italian; (2) of a sophistication and level of expectations appropriate for our program; (3) directly related to analysis of Italian-speaking peoples’ cultural production. Students taking courses in other disciplines are encouraged to seek credit for those courses in the appropriate departments. All courses for the Italian Studies minor will normally be in Italian, though one relevant course taught in English may be counted toward the minor with permission from the Italian Studies Section. Approval for summer courses taught by Boston College faculty, including courses abroad, will be granted on a case-by- case basis by the Director of Undergraduate Studies in consultation with the Italian Studies section. Back To Top Back To Top Romance Languages and Literatures Department Lyons Hall 304 617-552-3820 rll@bc.edu Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Giving to the Department Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College