Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Brown Center for Students of Color MPC Program Brown Center for Students of Color MPC Program Apply Now for 2022-2023 2022-2023 MPC Peer Counselor Coordinator: Application NOW AVAILABLE Are you a current MPC interested in an elevated student leadership role that supports, coordinates, and mentors current MPCs to ensure their success in the Ms role, their academic and personal life as students of color? Do you want to leave a legacy and impact here at Brown by leading the MPCs in a year-long exploration with 1st-year students of color around topics such as; barriers to equity and inclusion, ways to address, reduce, and navigate those barriers in order to build a more intentional and inclusive community for themselves, and their peers? Do you enjoy helping other cultivate relationships, create spaces for fun and self-reflection, that promote the values and mission of the Brown Center for Students of Color? Then please consider applying to become a MPC Peer Counselor Coordinator (MPCC)! MPCC Application and Job Description Application is due February 18th *Extended Deadline.* For more information click here. 2022-2023 MPC Peer Counselor Cohort: Application NOW AVAILABLE Apply Today! Interested in a Student Leadership role that welcomes new students to Brown and provides them with an introduction to the support structures and resources available at Brown? Do you want to leave a legacy and impact here at Brown by guiding 1st-year students of color in a year-long exploration of barriers to equity and inclusion, ways to address, reduce, and navigate those barriers in order to build a more intentional and inclusive community for themselves, and their peers? Do you enjoy cultivating relationships, creating spaces for fun and self-reflection, and promoting the values and mission of the Brown Center for Students of Color? Then please consider applying to become a MPC Peer Counselor (MPC)! MPC Job Description and Application Application is due February 23. For more information click here. Students with questions about the application process or student employment eligibility should directly contact either Sage Morgan Hubbard, Assistant Director, Brown Center for Students of Color [email protected] or Dr. Vincent Harris, Associate Dean and Director, Brown Center for Students of Color [email protected] What is the MPC Program? The general aim of the program is to raise awareness of the many barriers that continue to challenge minority students' ability to thrive in a diverse environment. Throughout the year, MPCs aim to address the needs and concerns of communities of color, especially those who did not attend TWTP. In January of 1973, the MPC program was created by Black upperclass students. The counselors volunteered their services to provide Black students with ongoing academic support with an emphasis on building a sense of community, tradition and strength. In the mid 70's, the concept of "Third World" evolved, and minority students from Latino, African American, Asian American backgrounds began to build coalitions and work together, which influenced the scope and new direction of the MPC Program. In the 80's, the MPC program evolved to include students from African, Asian, Latino, Multiracial and Native American descent. In 1995, Arab Americans were added to the constituent list. By using a system of community support, the student-run program has had a significant impact on making incoming students of color feel comfortable in a predominately white institution. In the 90's, the MPCs offered Racism, Classism, Sexism, Heterosexism and Homophobia workshops. At the beginning of the decade, the MPC Program was no longer student-run and a team leadership style was fostered. Three student coordinators are hired to work with the Director of the Brown Center for Students of Color to run the program. In 2000, the MPCs altered their focus to plan and implement educational and community building activities and programs, continue to host Unity Days and publicize Brown Center for Students of Color-sponsored events. Working alongside the Residential Counseling Program and the Women Peer Counseling Program, MPCs provide academic and personal peer counseling, plan social gatherings, and serve as part of the larger student support system in the residential unit. In 2006, amendments were proposed to the existing MPC Program. The MPC Steering Committee has been working to revitalize the MPC program for the past two years. In recent years, MPC’s have been unable to effectively fulfill their responsibilities as advocates for the community of color at Brown because their time and energy has been tied up in general peer counselor unit duties and administrative tasks. The Steering Committee synthesized survey responses from past and current MPC’s and reviewed the feedback received from the All Class MPC Reunion (four years ago) to develop a plan to refocus the program. The Steering Committee assessed that in the best interest of the beloved community, MPCs should be fulfilling campus wide responsibilities that will have more positive impact upon all classes (not just first years). Today, MPCs are assigned to many of the first year units. They serve as resources and mentors to all first year students about matters related to the student of color experience. They also work in collaboration with Residential Peer leaders to implement workshops on class, race, sexism and homophobia. MPCs also expose members of the incoming class to valuable campus resources. Home About BCSC Weekly Newsletter Third World Transition Program (TWTP) MPC Program MPCs MPCCs Heritage Series Student Communications Team Graduate Students of Color Senior Graduation Ceremony Center Spaces Meet the Staff Contact Print this Page Share this Page Brown Center for Students of Color Brown University Box 1871 68 Brown St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone (401) 863-2120 Fax (401) 863-1184 [email protected] Calendar There are no upcoming events. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Our Social Media Facebook Instagram Twitter