Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Endeavor Keynote Home Events and Programs Endeavor Endeavor Keynote Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Since 2016, prominent Boston College liberal arts alumni have returned to the Heights to speak to students on the second day of Endeavor about the advantages provided by a liberal arts education. Announcing the 2022 Keynote Speaker Bill Clerico '07 Founder, Convective Capital Bill is the founder of Convective Capital, an investment firm that backs entrepreneurs applying technology to prevent, suppress and mitigate wildfire-related impact. Previously, Bill was the founder and CEO at WePay, which he started at 23 and led for 12 years through its acquisition by J.P. Morgan Chase. At J.P. Morgan, Bill ran the SMB payments business, and led strategic investments in Toast, Touchbistro and Freshbooks. He has been named one of Bloomberg’s Best Young Tech Entrepreneurs & WePay was consistently named a Best Place to Work. Bill is an early stage investor in over 50 technology companies and previously was a part-time partner at Y Combinator. Bill also serves on the Board of Directors at PayNearMe. Bill & his wife Katey split their time between San Francisco and Boonville, CA where Bill is a volunteer firefighter with the Anderson Valley Fire Department. Bill is an avid pilot and skier, and holds a B.S. in Computer Science from Boston College. Past Keynote Speakers Yolanda Lyle '94, J.D. '01 Vice President, Executive Operations, Pfizer 2021 Speaker Grace Zuncic '05 Chief People Officer, Chobani 2020 Speaker Austin Bryant '09 Director, North America Digital Marketing, Converse 2019 Speaker Ariel Belgrave Harris '11 Chief Executive Officer, Gym Hooky 2019 Speaker Lev Golinkin '03 Author, A Backpack, a Bear, and Eight Crates of Vodka 2018 Speaker Arivee Vargas Rozier-Byrd '05, J.D. '08 Senior Director, Employee Relations, Vertex Pharmaceuticals 2017 Speaker Steve Pemberton '89, H'15 Chief Human Resources Officer, Workhuman Author, A Chance in the World 2016 Speaker Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College