We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × 1 2 3 4 President Coley visits with students in University Plaza. View President Coley's CV This slide contains video without audio. The description of the video is "" President Coley races over to Kellogg Arena for the start of the 2019 Fall Conference. Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis with President Coley and student before commencement. President Coley celebrates with students during the 2018 Hot Dog Caper. Previous Next Office of the President Home About About the President Memberships and Appointments President's CV From the President Messages Video Messages Presidential Orders News Strategic Planning Campus Conversations About Campus Conversations FuturePaths: Career and Professional Readiness Model Archive Leadership in the CSU Schedule the President Presidential History at CPP Honoring Excellence President's Scholars President's Honor List Emeritus Awards Whistleblower Protection Act Campus Leadership Office Directory Office of the President Another Year of Transforming Lives and Communities Pres. Soraya M. Coley marked the end of the academic year with a message to the campus community thanking students, staff, faculty, alumni and friends for continuing Cal Poly Pomona’s legacy as a transformational university. She particularly noted the return of Commencement ceremonies to the campus and offered congratulations to the Class of 2022. Read Message State of the University Address On August 18, 2021, President Coley ushered in the new academic year at a virtual edition of Fall Convocation. Faculty and Staff joined online to hear the State of the University address, with a special emphasis on our progress over the past year and how the perseverance of our faculty, staff, and students is keeping Cal Poly Pomona strong during challenging times. Read or Watch the Full Address Contact the President Email: president@cpp.edu Fax: 909-869-4535 Location: 121-3510 Support Cal Poly Pomona External support is crucial to sustaining excellence. Together, we can help ensure a brighter and bolder future for our students and our communities. Give Online Social Media Follow @PresColeyCPP 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers