Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Give Light Menu Give Light About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give Give Light is a $1.1 billion comprehensive campaign for the future of Baylor University. The campaign undergirds Illuminate, the University's Strategic Plan, and will impact every aspect of campus life, from academics and athletics to student life and global engagement. Make a Gift Explore CAMPAIGN PROGRESS as of Goal Raised $584.3 B total raised $1.1 billion goal CAMPAIGN GOALS OVERVIEW $500M $300M $300M Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Expendable Funds Immediate Needs Baylor Fund Bear Foundation Global Learning Experiences Capital Projects Capital projects add needed capacity for academic growth. 302 Endowed Scholarships 7 Endowed Faculty Positions 49,998 Campaign Donors Make a Gift Campaign Priorities Learn More Endowed Funds Endowment is critical to securing our future. Investment in endowment will lay a foundation upon which future generations will grow in their knowledge and pursuit of their life's calling. Learn More Capital Projects Critical resources are needed to support facilities and infrastructure for growth in research and programs that contribute solutions to problems facing an ever-changing world and prepare graduates as leaders in their fields. Learn More President's Excellence Fund Gifts to the President's Excellence Fund create the ability for the University to meet tangible needs beyond tuition support for students or programs that may need a boost of support. Learn More Initiatives Baylor stands apart as a Christian research university - a position that empowers our aspiration to become the world's preeminent Christian research university. Learn More $3 Million Gift Received Toward Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought The Jim and Sharon Harrod Endowed Chair of Christian Thought supports the Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics initiative within Illuminate, the University's strategic plan, and will qualify for matching support through the Give Light Campaign's Illuminate Chair Matching Program. Learn More A Milestone We All Can Celebrate Gifts and pledges to the Give Light Campaign have surpassed the initial goal of $1.1 billion, marking the campaign as the largest and most successful fundraising effort in the University's 177-year history. Learn More Baylor University Announces First Faculty Endowment for Nursing School A gift of $1.5 million from the Deerbrook Charitable Trust of Chevy Chase, Maryland, and Harris and Anne Clark of Dallas has established the Louise Herrington School of Nursing's (LHSON) first endowed faculty position. Learn More Baylor University Announces Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Naming Baylor University today announced the naming of the Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion in honor of Paul (BBA '79) and Alejandra Foster, of El Paso, Texas. The naming is in recognition of Paul and Alejandra's gift of $100 million in 2019 to the Give Light Campaign, which launched the public fundraising campaign for the Basketball Pavilion, home to Baylor's National Championship basketball teams. Learn More Support from Alumni, Donors Fuels Completion of the Foster Academic Challenge Program In 2019, the Foster Academic Challenge, a dollar-for-dollar matching program, was established to fuel the University's academic enterprise. In September 2021, Baylor announced the successful completion of the Challenge, which generated significant support from alumni and donors to establish 14 new endowed faculty chairs and significantly advance the aspirations of Illuminate, the University's strategic plan. Learn More Baylor University Celebrates First Cohort of Trailblazer Scholars The Trailblazer Scholars Program is a scholarship program designed to recognize the importance of fostering diversity and mutual respect at Baylor University. The program emerged as part of Baylor's commitment to listen, learn and take actionable steps regarding racial healing and justice in America. The inaugural Gilbert-Walker cohort of Trailblazer Scholars is named after Baylor's first Black graduates Rev. Robert Gilbert, BA '67, and Mrs. Barbara Walker, BA '67. Learn More Tidwell Bible Building Completes Renovations During a ceremonial ribbon cutting, Baylor University celebrated the opening of the newly-renovated Tidwell Bible Building, one of many historic buildings that make up the core of the University's campus. The renovation and careful preservation of the 67-year-old building was planned as part of the $300 million in capital improvements to support the aspirations of the Give Light Campaign, the university's fundraising campaign intended to fund Baylor's efforts to become a preeminent Christian research university. Learn More Baylor University Announces $30 Million Scholarship Challenge Dan and Jenni Hord of Midland, Texas, both Baylor alumni, are passionate about student success, and through the Hord Scholarship Challenge, they are encouraging the collective Baylor Family to match their giving to Baylor by supporting merit-based scholarships to help deserving students bridge the gap between merit- and need-based financial aid and unmet financial need. Learn More News Read More News Apr. 14, 2022 Baylor Mourns Passing of Beloved Former First Lady Joy Reynolds WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – The Baylor University family is grieving the loss of beloved former First Lady Joy Reynolds. The wife of Baylor’s 11th President and later Chancellor and President Emeritus, the late Herbert H. Reynolds, Mrs. Reynolds fulfilled her role as First Lady with boundless grace and energy. Read More Apr. 5, 2022 Baylor University Announces $3 Million Gift Establishing New Chair in Christian Thought WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – Baylor University today announced a $3 million gift from Jim and Sharon Harrod of Horseshoe Bay, Texas, establishing an endowed faculty chair position to support exceptional scholarship and transformational learning within the Honors College and the study of great thinkers who have stood at the intersection of the Christian faith and culture at large. Read More Mar. 29, 2022 Graduate and Professional Programs Ranked in U.S. News & World Report’s 2023 Edition of Best Graduate Schools WACO, Texas (March 29, 2022) – Several Baylor University graduate and professional programs were among those nationally ranked in the 2023 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools rankings, released March 29. Read More Mar. 23, 2022 Who are the Fosters — namesakes of Baylor’s new Foster Pavilion? To the most recent generation of Baylor Family members, the Foster name is synonymous with campus growth and exciting new facilities. The Paul L. Foster Success Center brought academic and career counseling and support together in Sid Rich back in 2007, and the Foster Campus for Business and Innovation provided a stunning new home for the … Read More Each of us has been entrusted with a great light that can illuminate the path for future generations. When the Baylor Family gives financially to support University priorities, we give light to Baylor's bright future. Make a Gift Today Please select...Baylor Fund Make a Gift Contact Us (254) 710-2561GiveLight@baylor.edu General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About the Campaign Foundation of the Campaign National Campaign Steering Committee Campaign Timeline Campaign Events Nashville - April 28, 2022 Atlanta - February 3, 2022 Denver - October 22, 2021 Give Light Denver Video Tidwell Ribbon Cutting Medal of Honor Statue Installation Ceremony Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Video Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Groundbreaking Southern California - October 26, 2019 Dallas - September 14, 2019 Dr. Annette von Jouanne Video New York City - May 23, 2019 Benjamin Goff Video Jeff Theiss Video Houston - May 4, 2019 Dr. Dwayne Simmons Video Dr. Ann Mirabito Video Washington, DC - February 2, 2019 Dr. Lorin Matthews Video Dr. Byron Johnson Video Campaign Priorities Endowed Funds Faculty Chairs and Professorships Endowed Scholarships Endowed Funds for Growth Priorities Endowment Impact Capital Projects Mark & Paula Hurd Welcome Center Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion Fudge Football Development Center President's Excellence Fund Support Baylor Students Today Why I Give: Donor Testimonials Initiatives Health Data Sciences Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Academic Units Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work Engineering & Computer Science George W. Truett Theological Seminary Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Mayborn Museum Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Music University Libraries Foster Academic Challenge Hord Scholarship Challenge Trailblazer Scholars Program Contact Make a Gift News Illuminate Ways to Give