Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell School of Business Business Undergraduate MBA Faculty ELC Executive Education Discover UW Bothell Home Business Business About Dean's welcome Vision, mission & values Strategic plan Impact Seattle Tech Ecosystem Report Advisory boards Dean's Advisory Board Executives in Residence Women's Alumni Council Undergraduate Master of Business Administration Master of Science in Accounting Certificates Certificate in Accounting Executive Education Mentorship EDGE Program Overview Becoming a Mentor Becoming a Mentee Awards Mentors Events Testimonials Research Talks 2019-2020 Research Talks 2018-2019 Research Talks 2017-2018 Research Talks Dean's Distinguished Speaker Series Events Accounting Ethics Conference 2021 Faculty Staff Eastside Leadership Center Give to UWB School of Business Excellence Fund Scholarship Fund Business Ranked #1 in return on investment among public universities School-wide 17-to-1 student to educator ratio Early Days of the Business Program Dr. Balakrishnan, the last remaining founding faculty of the UW Bothell business program, walks down memory lane and shares his perspective on watching a new program become a remarkable, inspirational School. The supply chain depends on you The coronavirus pandemic exposed broken links in the supply chain. As shoppers head into the holiday season, Dr. Surya Pathak breaks down how the supply chain works and how we can all help repair it. Swipe for science A new online game about whales allows students and average citizens to participate in tracking and sorting data about local populations of these marine mammals. No previous scientific research experience required. AACSB accredits the best business schools in the world. Learn more about their accreditation standards. CNBC Make It ranked UW Bothell #1 that pays off the most among public universities. See the report. University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell School of Business Box 358533 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA, USA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5113 Fax: 425.352.5277 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbbusiness@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us