Columbia University in the City of New York Office of the University Registrar Related Services for Students Student Service Center ID Center Student Financial Services CUMC Registration & Financial Services Finance CourseWorks Environmental Stewardship Dining Event Management Faculty House Health Housing Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Print Transportation Profile: Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez Law School Selects Annel Monserrat Becerra Rodriguez for Campbell Award Profile: Linda Fried School of Public Health Dean, Linda Fried, Awarded Kober Medal for Study of Healthy Aging Search form Search News Forms About Us Academic Calendar Master Course Schedule and Calendar Wait Lists Post-Change of Program Add/Drop Period Registration and Enrollment Registrar Classrooms Exams Grades Graduation and Diplomas Transcripts and Certifications Faculty and Staff Class Rosters Departmental Access Academic Advising Resources Personal Information Policies and Regulations Registrar Forms Text Resize -A +A Quick LinksAcademic CalendarMaster Course Schedule and CalendarWait ListsPost-Change of Program Add/Drop PeriodRegistration and Enrollment - Registration Dates - Registering for Classes and Appointment Times - Registration Information and Instructions for Faculty - Cross-Registration -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Barnard College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Jewish Theological Seminary -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Teachers College -- Cross-Registration: Columbia and Union Theological Seminary - Dropping Courses - Withdrawal -- Refund Rate for Withdrawals - Registration Holds - Advising - School Bulletins - Auditing ProgramsRegistrar Classrooms - Classroom Scheduling -- Classroom Descriptions - Registrar-Managed Classrooms - Building Codes - Protocol for Classroom RelocationExams - Final Exam SchedulesGrades - Grading System - Grade Options - Grade Point AverageGraduation and Diplomas - Diploma Replacement - Apostille: Certifying Columbia Documents for Use InternationallyTranscripts and Certifications - Transcripts - Certifications - Third Party Ordering - Release of Academic Information for Deceased Students - Information for ParentsFaculty and Staff - Class Rosters - Departmental Access - Academic Advising ResourcesPersonal Information - Name Changes -- Preferred Name FAQ - NameCoach - Withhold or Reverse Withholding... - Solomon AmendmentPolicies and Regulations - Privacy Rights (FERPA) -- Parents -- FERPA for Faculty & Staff - Central Administration of Academic Programs - Codes for Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP) - Retention of Student Education Records - Standard Transcript NotationsRegistrar Forms - Registration Adjustment Form (Add & Drop Classes) - Academic Certification Request - Application for Degree or Certificate - Request for Transcript - Application for Replacement of Diploma - Request to Withhold or Reverse Withholding of Directory Information - Name Change Affidavit Home > Faculty and Staff > Academic Advising Resources Academic Advising Resources Access to Student Records Protecting and safeguarding the educational record is one of the core responsibilities of the Office of the University Registrar. Given the highly sensitive nature of information in our systems, we maintain a commitment to full compliance with FERPA regulations and to stay current with best practices in student information management. The Office of the University Registrar reviews all access requests to university systems containing student records. Before accessing student records, faculty and staff are expected to review FERPA guidelines at: Federal Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Faculty and staff who have access to student records should complete the Security Awareness Training, of which FERPA is a part, here: http://cuit.columbia.edu/cuit/security-awareness-training (link is external) The Office of the University Registrar is available to assist departments and offices with understanding the requirements of FERPA policy and guidelines. Training may be requested at: mailto:[email protected] Student Service Center: Here’s what we do: Answer student, parent, staff, faculty and community inquiries via phone, in person in 210 Kent Hall, email, and mail about Registration and billing questions. Here are the reasons to send students to our offices in Kent: Request transcripts in person – but not during the first three weeks of each semester (these can be requested on SSOL) Provide official certification requests/documentation – but not during the first three weeks of each semester (these can be requested on SSOL) Accept Registration Adjustment forms (formerly add/drop) with proper approvals – but not for CC and SEAS students – these MUST come through CSA so that they get a CSA stamp. Accept forms to update student name, address or FERPA release information Accept W-9S forms for tax information (adding SSN to student record) Answer any general billing questions (payments, due dates, payment plan, etc.) Answer any general refund questions Answering questions regarding financial holds and late fees on students’ accounts Complete documentation for Canadian tax form processing Receive Third-Party Billing, Tuition Exemption, or other financial forms ID Center/Hartley Collaboration Working together to provide our undergraduate housing students better service in both the ID Center and Hartley Hall, the ID Center and Hartley Hospitality Desk will soon offer students the convenience of having their housing and meal plan coded in the ID Center in Kent Hall, as well as at the Hospitality Desk in Hartley Hall, which is open 24 hours a day. Previously, students could only get the University ID Cards in Kent and the meal plan coding in Hartley. Soon both places will be able to perform both functions. AMCAS Transcript Requests We are very excited to launch SSOL transcript requests for AMCAS! Students should now use SSOL to request transcript for AMCAS applications. Registration Adjustment Form We have developed a new registration form to replace the old “Add/Drop" form: the Registration Adjustment Form. This form should only be used when the action cannot be performed by the student using SSOL. Things to note: Forms should be filled out completely, otherwise they may be returned to the advisor. Changes to a W are considered grade changes. Advisor-approved and student-authorized requests for a W in a course should be emailed to [email protected], either individually or by spreadsheet. The new Registration Adjustment form does not accommodate grade changes. A W in a course is not a drop and there is no change to registration in our student information system. 9th Semester Petitions – students who receive approval to take a 9th semester, whether part- or full-time, will be registered for courses via the paper Registration Adjustment form. Please scan and email these forms to [email protected]. In the notes section, please write “9th Semester Student.” Students can modify their grading options via SSOL during registration until the P/D/F deadline. To modify a P/D/F grading option after the deadline, advisors can email [email protected] instead of using a form. Utilize the notes section! If the form is not doing what you want, write us a note. If you prefer to scan/email forms to [email protected], you are welcome to do so. Class Rosters Departmental Access Academic Advising Resources Registrar Highlights Academic Calendar 2020-2021 Directory of Classes Vergil FERPA and Personal Information Graduation and Diplomas Grades and Exams SSOL Office of the University Registrar | 210 Kent Hall, MC 9202, 1140 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, NY 10027 | [email protected]