COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News Tiffany Johnson balanced being a mom, a full-time student and a full-time job while attending WSU. May 02, 2022psychologyFairmount College of Liberal Arts and SciencesGraduate ProfilesAccess and Affordability Meet a Shocker: Tiffany Johnson By Abigail Klein, public relations advisor Tiffany Johnson will graduate in spring 2022. She chose to attend Wichita State because of Wichita State’s access and affordability. She is currently applying for graduate school. Tiffany is one of more than 2,400 students eligible for spring/summer 2022 graduation. Learn more about her time at WSU and what is next for the grad. Hometown Wichita, Kansas Degree Bachelor of Art in Psychology What made you want to attend Wichita State? I wanted to attend WSU because of the affordability and the easy admission process. How are you feeling leading up to graduation? I have mixed emotions. I’m extremely proud of myself for accomplishing one of the biggest goals that I set for myself, but on the other hand I am a little scared to transition to the next phase. Despite this, I definitely have full confidence that I am prepared to take over due to the knowledge I’ve gained being a student at WSU. What has been your biggest challenge as a student and how dd you overcome it? The biggest challenge was balancing being a mom, a full-time student and a full-time job. Also, not forgetting to take time to embrace the little victories that came with my journey. What has been your most helpful learning experience at Wichita state? The most helpful learning experience was finding beneficial resources to help with my studies. What are your plans after graduation? I am currently in the process of applying for grad school, so my plan after graduation it to further prepare for that endeavor. How did the COVID-19 pandemic affect your time at Wichita State? Oh boy. Where do I start? Well for one, the pandemic forced me to really buckle down and execute my plans because you never know what is going to happen for day to day What advice would you give other Wichita State students? The advice that I would give is create a plan, gather campus resources, such as mentors and peers, that align with your vision and celebrate the little things. Psychology Department The Wichita State University Psychology Department is committed to conducting applied research to enhance psychological science. At our 14 dedicated research laboratories, groups and clinics, faculty members and students work side by side on projects that advance the field of psychology in real and meaningful ways. Learn more about WSU's Psychology Department Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio computer science Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©