Skip navigation About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information for Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Global Global Brown Research & Curriculum Global Engagement International Programs Programs & Initiatives Community & Support Office of International Programs GLISP Application Process/Steps Choose a Topic First, you need an idea. Pursue a topic or subject that you want to spend time exploring. Find a Faculty Mentor Identify potential faculty sponsors early in your process - professors tend to plan their semesters well in advance of students, and finding a faculty mentor is required. Based on your interest, seek out on-campus Brown faculty with teaching or research experience in your proposed overseas study destination. To jump-start this process, review Brown faculty who have demonstrated expertise in the country or topic through teaching, research or a combination of both. Faculty Research Interests may help you identify potential mentors. Create a Project Proposal Once you have a topic and a faculty mentor, schedule an appointment with an OIP advisor to discuss your ideas and your proposal, which must include a syllabus, a bibliography, and a full project description. Submit your GLISP Application to the OIP. Receive Academic Credit Upon successfully completing the Global Independent Study Project, you will receive one Brown course credit. The remainder of your course load abroad will be completed by courses taken through the study abroad sponsor institution. For specific questions regarding GLISPs, see Frequently Asked Questions. You can also contact the OIP to speak to a study abroad advisor or peer advisor. Independent Studies coordinators at the Curricular Resource Center (CRC), Room 228, Campus Center can provide advice on independent study projects, including GLISPs. "I completed a GLISP on early medieval Irish literature. It was well worth the time and effort. I was pushed to access resources unique to Ireland that I would not have otherwise. Trinity has an incredible library, and I spent many hours pursuing the world of early medieval Ireland...Ultimately, the project allowed me to more profoundly engage with the Irish landscape." - Christopher Thompson, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland Home Study Abroad COVID-19 Updates Programs Consortium for Advanced Studies Abroad (CASA) Independent Study and Undergraduate Research Global Independent Study Project (GLISP) GLISP Application Process/Steps Student FAQ's Faculty FAQ's Application Deadlines Meet with an Advisor Study Abroad Peer Advisors Faculty Advisors for Study Abroad FinancIal Information Getting Started Health & Safety Resources for Abroad Returning to Brown For Families Faculty & Staff OIP Events & Activities About the OIP Print this Page Share this Page Office of International Programs Brown University Box 1973 Page-Robinson Hall 420 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-3555 Fax 401-863-3311 [email protected] For Global Travelers Controller's Office Travel Policies and Procedures International Health Insurance Register with Brown's International SOS Service Tips While Abroad - The Take It With You Guide Brown Travel Portal IT Security Travel Tips International Research Administration Travel Clinic For Global Visitors Office of International Student & Scholar Services (OISSS) International Health Insurance Brown Travel Portal International Student Resources Visiting Undergraduate Students Visiting Research Fellows and Non-Degree Graduate Students Study Abroad Office of International Programs - Undergraduate Study Abroad Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Graduate School Partnerships and Exchanges Grant Opportunities Our grant database offers a wide range of funding opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and researcher in different fields of work. Search Grants Social Media Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Top Destinations Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Map & Directions Social Media Dashboard Contact Us Giving to Brown