Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Academics Forward Arrow Academics Sociology B.A. / B.S. Anthropology, B.A. / B.S. Criminal Justice, B.A. / B.S. Social Science, M.S. Business Anthropology & Human Behavior Certificate Back Arrow Back Students Forward Arrow Students Academic Advising Engagement Opportunities Major & Course Fee Back Arrow Back Research Forward Arrow Research Social Justice Research and Advocacy Hub Center for Justice and Social Research Back Arrow Back Alumni & Friends Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Academics show submenu for Academics Sociology B.A. / B.S. Anthropology, B.A. / B.S. Criminal Justice, B.A. / B.S. Social Science, M.S. Business Anthropology & Human Behavior Certificate Students show submenu for Students Academic Advising Engagement Opportunities Major & Course Fee Research show submenu for Research Social Justice Research and Advocacy Hub Center for Justice and Social Research Alumni & Friends Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Academics Sociology, Anthropology & Criminal Justice Academics Current: Social Science, M.S. Social Science, M.S. The Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice offers an M.S. in Social Science degree. This outstanding graduate program provides a solid foundation in social science research methods. It emphasizes practical and theoretical knowledge in the areas of sociology, anthropology and criminal justice, and focuses on the acquisition of social science research skills, theory application and field experience. The program prepares students to conduct theoretically sound, empirically sophisticated research projects, as well as evaluation studies of organizational programs and policies. You can complete your degree in only 30 hours (for non-thesis students) or 36 hours (for thesis students) of graduate credit in typically 3-4 semesters. The core curriculum includes qualitative and quantitative research methods, social theory, survey design and/or evaluation methods, and professional development. Students can tailor their studies to suit their career goals with the guidance of their individual committees. Graduate Handbook Request More Information Apply Now Research Opportunities The M.S. in Social Science offers a strong grounding in research design, execution and analysis, with an emphasis on applying social theory and constructing, managing and analyzing data sets to solve real world problems. Students work closely with faculty on their research endeavors or the student’s own research, leading to opportunities for either employment or pursuing a PhD. Faculty members and graduate students often collaborate on research projects with colleagues from other departments. 4+1 Accelerated Track The 4+1 in Social Science program at Clemson University is an accelerated track to a Master’s degree, allowing qualified students to get both their Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in five years without having to take the GRE. The 4+1 program is open to all Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice majors. To qualify for this program, you must have completed your bachelor’s curriculum through your junior year (at least 90 credit hours) with a minimum overall grade point average of 3.4. If you may be interested in our accelerated track option to an M.S. in Social Science, please fill out this Google Form and contact Dr. Bryan Miller, Graduate Coordinator (blm2@clemson.edu) to make an appointment. Student Experience We attract students from all over the United States and abroad, people of all genders, ages, ethnicities, and national origins. Students come from a wide variety of academic backgrounds, including anthropology, criminal justice, sociology, psychology, business, communications, and journalism. Student Outcomes Graduates of our program are highly marketable and have an excellent employment record. They have been hired by governmental, public and private organizations including the National Opinion Research Center, Nielsen Media, Arbitron, Research Triangle Institute, United Way, Society for Human Resource Management, American Institutes for Research, District of Columbia Public Schools and the U.S. Census Bureau. Graduates are data analysts, evaluation researchers, policy analysts, statisticians and management consultants. Graduates also have successfully pursued doctoral and professional studies at public and private universities. Applying The department seeks applicants who have a desire to develop their social science research skills which are highly valued in both commercial and academic settings. Prior coursework in research methods and statistics is encouraged, but not required. Applicants should apply for fall admission, but applications are accepted year-round. Applications should be submitted by the priority deadline of February 1st, however after this date applications are accepted on a rolling basis. Assistantships are competitive, so it is advisable to apply as early as possible. Financial Aid As funds are available, the department offers graduate assistantships. Graduate assistants work 10 to 20 hours per week in the department. Highly qualified graduate students can compete for university fellowships. Assistantships and fellowships are highly prized and very competitive. Please see the tuition schedules as posted on the web pages of the Graduate School to receive the most current information about tuition and fees. Graduate Faculty Name Title Phone/Email Britz, Marjie Professor 864-656-3238 MBRITZ@clemson.edu Coggeshall, John Professor of Anthropology 656-3822 RAUCUS@clemson.edu Costello, Matthew Assistant Professor 864-656-4210 MJCOSTE@clemson.edu Haller, William Associate Professor 864-656-3814 WHALLER@clemson.edu Hensman Kettrey, Heather Assistant Professor 864-656-1107 HKETTRE@clemson.edu Hester, Rhys Assistant Professor 864-656-3816 RHYSH@clemson.edu Hossfeld, Leslie Dean - College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences 864-656-7640 LHOSSFE@clemson.edu Li, Miao Assistant Professor 864-656-3819 MIAOL@clemson.edu Luo, Ye Professor 656-4209 YEL@clemson.edu Maher, Thomas Assistant Professor (864) 656-4210 tvmaher@clemson.edu Mannheimer, Andrew Senior Lecturer 864-656-3238 AMANNHE@clemson.edu Markus, David Assistant Professor DMARKUS@clemson.edu McLean, Kyle Assistant Professor (864) 656-3238 kdmclea@clemson.edu Miller, Bryan Lee Professor (864) 656-3818 BLM2@clemson.edu Mobley, Catherine Professor of Sociology 864-656-3815 CAMOBLE@clemson.edu Robinson, Kenneth Associate Professor (864) 656-1449 KRBNSN@clemson.edu Roland, L. Kaifa Associate Professor, Director, Pan African Studies 864/656-3153 lroland@clemson.edu Shakour, Katie Research Assistant Professor (864) 656-3238 kshakou@clemson.edu Sianko, Natallia Assistant Professor 864-656-0683 NATALLS@clemson.edu Starks, Chad Assistant Professor, Director, Social Justice Research & Advocacy Hub Research 864-656-8638 bcstark@clemson.edu Tremblay, Suzanna Lecturer setremb@clemson.edu Weisensee, Katherine Chair & Associate Professor (864) 656-3238 KWEISEN@clemson.edu Winslow, Sarah Professor, Senior Associate Director, Honors College 864-656-5443 SWINSLO@clemson.edu Wu, Yi Associate Professor of Anthropology (864) 656-3823 YWU5@clemson.edu Frequently Asked Questions How much does the program cost? Estimated total fees for the 2021-2022 academic year without an assistantship including tuition, health fees, and student fees is $5,306 per semester for in state individuals, and $10,336 for out of state individuals. Assistantships cover tuition for both out of state and in state individuals, and provides a paid stipend. Do I need to take the GRE and TOELF/IELETS exams? *Due to the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, GRE scores are not required for the 2022-2023 academic year. All foreign students are required to take the TOELF, IELTS, or PTE (or equivalent). Any TOELF, IELTS, or PTE (or equivalent) exam scores that are over two years old will not be accepted. What is Clemson’s institutional code for test scores? For the GRE and the TOELF, Clemson’s institutional code is 5111. There is no department code required. What application materials are required? Personal Statement- Submission of a 500-word essay on your career aspirations and goals as well as how completion of the Master's Program in Social Science will assist in achieving these goals. Letters of Recommendation- Submission of three letters of recommendation; One of these letters should come from faculty members of the applicant's previously attended college or university; If you graduated ten years ago or more, letters from employers may be submitted instead of letters from former faculty members Submission of a Resume or CV Exams- *GRE scores are not required for the 2022-2023 academic year. GRE general, and all foreign students are required to take the TOEFL, IELTS, or PTE (or equivalent). IELTS (6.5 or higher) Transcripts- An unofficial transcript showing proof of required degrees are acceptable for an offer of admission, and are required by the Grad School to accept an applicant. Previous Degrees- You must hold at least a bachelor’s degree from an approved institution whose scholastic rating is satisfactory to the University, or an equivalent degree from an institution outside the U.S. operating under the Bologna process whose scholastic rating is satisfactory to the University, to be admitted to the Graduate School. Is there a minimum GPA to qualify for admissions? Yes, applicants should have a cumulative minimum GPA of a 3.0 or higher to be considered for admission. What is the deadline to apply? Applications are accepted on a rolling basis with a priority deadline of February 1st. Applications submitted by this date will receive full consideration for assistantships and other funding. How long does it take to earn this degree? You can complete your degree in only 30 hours (for non-thesis students) or 36 hours (for thesis students) of graduate credit in typically 3-4 semesters. What can I do with this degree? Our M.S. in Social Science is a versatile degree that can lead to many different career opportunities. The skills learned are seen as valuable to employers, and graduates may find that they are offered specialized roles that would not have otherwise been offered to them. Can I enroll part-time or in spring semesters? Due to the curriculum of the program, it is suggested to enroll in the Fall semester, however part-time enrollment is offered. Is full funding available? Yes, through graduate assistantships as funds are available. What does the curriculum look like? The core curriculum includes qualitative and quantitative research methods, social theory, survey design and/or evaluation methods, and professional development. Students selecting the thesis option complete and publicly defend a project representing a significant contribution to the body of knowledge in the discipline, and students selecting the non-thesis option must pass a departmentally administered comprehensive examination. Students can tailor their studies to suit their career goals with the guidance of individual committees Why get an M.S. in Social Science at Clemson? As one of the few broad social science programs available that has a strong focus on theory and research methods, we are able to prepare our students with not only the soft skills common to social science degrees, but with strong skill sets in research and data analysis. By offering a more structured curriculum with more focus on these specific skills, we are able to prepare our students for careers in academia, industry, and the public and nonprofit sectors. Contact Bryan Miller Professor and Graduate Coordinator Email: blm2@clemson.edu M.S. Social Science Program Email: mssocialscience@clemson.edu Connect with us on LinkedIn Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice Copyright © Clemson University Department of Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice | 132 Brackett Hall 864-656-3238 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson