Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Institute For Engaged Aging Institute for Engaged Aging Community Outreach Research Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Institute for Engaged Aging The Institute for Engaged Aging (IEA) aims to discover, develop and disseminate best practices for engaged aging through research, education and community outreach. Institute initiatives will enable older adults to be engaged in family and community living regardless of their social, economic, or health status. Institute for Engaged Aging Community Outreach Research Clemson Home Centers and Institutes Current: Institute For Engaged Aging Our Purpose The Institute for Engaged Aging strives to discover, develop, and disseminate best practices for engaged aging through research, education, and community outreach. Institute initiatives focus on brain, mobility, and technology enabling older adults to engage in family and community living activities regardless of their social, economic, or health status. Research, educational programs, and community outreach generated through the IEA and its partnerships with Clemson faculty and regional organizations are critical in meeting the needs of a diverse older adult population. Census estimates predict that the number of adults 65 and older is expected to double to almost 20 percent of the U.S. population by 2030 and, in South Carolina, the percentage will be even greater at 22 percent, reflecting its leading rate of growth of those over 65. Our People Affiliated Faculty Dr. Dina Battisto Dr. Battisto has studied the environmental influences on aging in place to identify the characteristics common among the homes and communities of older adults who chose to stay at home as long as possible. Quantitative analysis was performed using the Asset and Health Dynamics among the Oldest-Old (AHEAD) dataset, and content analysis was conducted from in-depth interviews with older single adults 80 years and older living in the greater community. She is also involved in a collaborative project with Dr. Judith Voelkl (PRTM) to create a “Family Model of Care” for nursing homes that includes the integration of a supportive organizational culture, a homelike environment, and meaningful activities. In another study, Dr. Battisto interviewed married couples from two cohorts to elicit information on their residential histories and the meanings attached to homes where they have lived throughout life. Her manuscripts about these projects include: “Environmental Influences on Aging in Place”; “A Family Model of Care: Creating Life Enriching Environments”; and “Gender Issues in the Home." Dr. Kaileigh Byrne Dr. Kaileigh Byrne is an Assistant Professor in the Psychology Department at Clemson University. Her research broadly investigates the effect of aging on goal-directed and habit-based decision-making. She is working to develop methods that promote positive goal setting and maladaptive habit breaking. In particular, she examines how aging affects health-related and financial decisions strategies, cognitive biases, susceptibility to misinformation, and responsivity to feedback. Current research endeavors in my lab seek to (1) characterize neurophysiological markers of age-related adaptive decision-making, (2) identify mechanisms of how and why decision-making changes across the lifespan, and (3) improve goal-directed decision-making across the lifespan by employing decision aids and biofeedback techniques. Dr. Kelly Caine Dr. Kelly Caine is Dean’s Professor in the Human-Centered Computing Division of the School of Computing at Clemson University. This academic year (2019-2020), she holds the CURI fellowship, which has enabled her to spend the year at Clemson’s Charleston campus. Dr. Caine is the founder and director of the Humans and Technology Lab (www.hatlab.org) where she leads multidisciplinary research in human-centered computing, privacy, usable security, cybersecurity, health informatics, and human-computer interaction. Her work in these areas has been recognized with awards from the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, the National Science Foundation, the American Public Health Association, and the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. She is co-author of Understanding Your Users: A Practical Guide to User Research (2015; with Catherine Courage and Kathy Baxter) and has published over one hundred academic manuscripts in venues ranging from ACM CHI to the Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association. Dr. Caine loves teaching students about science and has mentored over 60 students, ranging from undergraduates to post-doctoral fellows, as research assistants in her lab. Prior to joining Clemson, she was the Principal Research Scientist in the School of Computing at Indiana University and a UX researcher at Google. Dr. Caine holds degrees from the University of South Carolina (B.A.) and the Georgia Institute of Technology (M.S. and Ph.D.). For more see www.kellycaine.org. Dr. Min Cao Dr. Min Cao is an Associate Professor and Undergraduate Program Coordinator for Microbiology in the Biological Sciences Department at Clemson University. Research in the Cao lab focuses on the inter-kingdom communications, i.e. the communications between bacteria and their hosts. Dr. Cao is also studying the effects of low concentrations of alcohol consumption on health span in the nematode model, Caenorhabditis elegans. Dr. Shelia Cotten Shelia Cotten, a sociologist, is the Associate Vice President for Research Development and a Provost’s Distinguished Professor at Clemson University. She has joint faculty appointments in the Sociology, Anthropology and Criminal Justice Department and the Department of Communication. Her research examines technology use across the life course, and the health, social, educational, and workforce impacts of technology use. Much of her research has focused on the digital divide and digital inequalities, with a special emphasis on helping older adults to successfully use emerging technologies to enhance their health and quality of life. Her current research focuses on perceptions, use, and impacts of emerging technologies – such as autonomous vehicles, wearables, and smart homes. Her research has been funded by the National Institute on Aging, the National Science Foundation, and other organizations. Before joining Clemson, Dr. Cotten was Michigan State University Foundation Professor and Associate Chair for Research in the Department of Media and Information at Michigan State University. Dr. Brandi Crowe Dr. Nicole Davis Dr. Nicole Davis is an Assistant Professor and the Adult-Gerontological Nurse Practitioner and MSN-Education Program Coordinator at Clemson University.&nbsp; She is a board-certified Adult and Gerontological Nurse Practitioner with a career that spans 21 years.&nbsp; Davis has expertise in urinary incontinence, geriatrics, and using health information technology to support family caregivers. She has lectured and published on these topics; and has received several awards and funding for her work. Davis is a National Hartford Centers of Gerontological Nursing Excellence Distinguished Educator in Gerontological Nursing, which recognizes her commitment to gerontological nursing education and the care of older adults. Davis is a Faculty Associate in the Clemson University Institute for Engaged Aging, a Clemson University School of Health Research Faculty Scholar, an Embedded Scholar at Prisma Health-Center for Success in Aging, a member of the Board of Directors of Upstate Area Health Education Consortium, and a member of the SC Lieutenant Governor&rsquo;s Alzheimer&rsquo;s Resource Coordination Center Advisory Council. She has served as an expert consultant for the AARP and is a National Institute on Aging, Resource Centers for Minority Aging Research Scientist. She received a BS from New York University, MS from Duke University, and a PhD from Georgia State University. Dr. John DesJardins Dr. DesJardins is the Hambright Leadership associate professor in Bioengineering at Clemson University and the director of the Frank H. Stelling and C. Dayton Riddle Orthopaedic Education and Research Laboratory at CUBEInC. He has co-authored over 250 peer-reviewed conference or journal publications in the areas of biomechanics, tribology, engineering education and implant design. He actively engages in many professional societies and review panels, including BMES, ASEE, VentureWell, ORS, NIH and NSF. His multi-disciplinary research teams have been funded through NASA, DoT, NIH, DoD, NSF, the Gates Foundation, and numerous biomedical industry contracts. His work has been featured on TEDx and The Academic Minute on NPR. He directs the bioengineering senior capstone design program, leads a bioengineering study abroad program in bioethics to Spain each summer, and he directs the NIH funded Clemson-GHS summer needs-finding experience for bioengineering students called DeFINE. Much of his work focuses on rehabilitation processes, and the design and function of orthopaedic devices that enhance the quality of life for older adults. Dr. Cheryl Dye Dr. Cheryl Dye, Professor Emerita of Public Health Sciences and Director of the Institute for Engaged Aging at Clemson University, has provided state and university leadership for several gerontology initiatives for the past 15 years. Leadership positions have included: past chair of the SC Center for Gerontology, co-founder and past chair of the SC Aging Research Network, appointed current member of the SC Advisory Council on Aging, and invited current member of the state Alzheimer's Association Advisory Board. Since 2001, Dr. Dye’s research has focused on promoting quality of life of older adults, primarily through the use of community-based Health Coaches. She received two grants from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) to develop a community health coach model for delivering one-on-one mentoring to discharged home health patients and to develop a community health coach model using small groups to promote hypertension self-management. The hypertension program, Health Coaches for Hypertension Control (HCHC), was designated in 2018 by DHHS as an Evidence-Based Program and since that time, Dr. Dye has disseminated HCHC in six states. In addition to her research in chronic condition self-management, she has also been funded to promote the health and quality of life of those with dementia and their family caregivers and to reduce fall risk of rural older adults. She led efforts to establish two community programs providing enriching activities to those with early to mid-stage dementia which are ongoing in Oconee and Pickens counties. Dr. Dye has received over $5.5M in funding as a Principal and Co-Investigator from agencies including National Institutes of Health (NIH), HRSA, the Kellogg Foundation, the Duke Endowment, USDA, Veteran’s Administration, and Administration for Community Living (ACL). In 2020, she was invited to present at the National Association of Area Agencies on Aging conference about her collaborations with Health Extension to promote older adult chronic condition self-management and also her establishment of the dementia day program, IEA Brain Health Club. Dr. Vivian Haley-Zitlin Dr. Haley-Zitlin’s research activities include examination of 1) the influences of food intake & exercise on an aging population, especially on the initiation and progression of chronic disease, 2) the relationships between nutrient intake, food choices and nutrition knowledge on type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular (CV) risk and 3) the role of protein (soy vs. casein) and/or isoflavone intake on obesity, diabetes and CV risk factors. Her training includes a NIA Postdoctoral Fellowship in the Nutritional Gerontology Program, Departments of Physiology and Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, 1991-1994. She is the 2004-2005 USDA Panel Manager for the ‘Bioactive Food Components for Optimal Health’ Study Section. Dr. Anjali Joseph Dr. Joseph is Professor of Architecture, Spartanburg Regional Health System Endowed Chair in Architecture + Health Design and Director of the Center for Health Facilities Design and Testing at Clemson University. Dr. Joseph teaches in the graduate program in Architecture + Health at Clemson University where she trains Architecture students in designing healthcare environments to support patient, staff and organizational outcomes. Joseph’s research focuses on multi-disciplinary systems approaches to improving patient safety and quality in high stress healthcare settings through the development of tools and built environment solutions. She has served as principal investigator on multiple grant funded projects from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Kresge Foundation, the California HealthCare Foundation and the US Green Building Council. She currently serves as PI on a multi-year patient safety learning lab funded by AHRQ focused on designing safer and more ergonomic operating rooms. Anjali’s work has been published in many peer-reviewed journals and she has spoken widely to national and international audiences. She was recognized as Researcher of the Year in 2018 by the Healthcare Design Magazine. Dr. Karen Kemper, Associate Professor Dr. Kemper is an Associate Professor in the Department of Public Health Science at Clemson University. Her research has focused on physical activity promotion, obesity prevention and chronic illness prevention and management. She has expertise in conducting research in community settings (schools, churches, housing projects, community centers, senior centers, afterschool settings, and a Historically Black College), conducting physical activity and functional mobility assessments, working with minority populations, and training student research assistants. Recently, Dr. Kemper co-authored a paper titled Merging Matter of Balance and Yoga: A Falls Prevention Pilot, published in OBM Geriatrics 2020. She is a co-investigator on a grant from the Pete and Sally Smith Foundation with the goal of facilitating the environmental and system level changes needed to institutionalize a fall prevention screening, referral and intervention process in a small rural hospital. She is also the primary investigator for a subcontract funded by a 21st Century Community Learning Center grant to promote physical activity and health among children and families in the Monaview Elementary School afterschool program. Dr. Kemper is interested in the role that health fitness and functional fitness can play in protecting health, mobility and independence across the lifespan. Dr. Kemper is also the co-author of the book “If you have to wear an ugly dress, learn to accessorize: Guidance, Inspiration and Hope for women with Lupus, scleroderma and other autoimmune Illnesses”. Dr. Ye Luo Dr. Luo’s recent research primarily focuses on three interrelated areas: social determinants of health, life course and aging, and gender and family relationships. Her research examines the relationship between socioeconomic status and health over the life course, and whether these relationships can be generalized to different populations and different societies. Dr. Luo’s work examines how life transitions in old age, such as retirement, grand parenting, living arrangements, and life events, such as elder abuse and mistreatment, affect health and well-being of older adults. Her research focuses particularly on how social services and social support at individual, family, community and societal levels modify these relationships. Recently, Dr. Luo has observed how an individual’s neighborhood environment has an effect on cognitive decline among older adults and middle-aged people in China. She has been published in the Journal of Gerontology: Social Sciences, Social Science & Medicine, and American Journal of Epidemiology. Dr. Luo has recently received an NIA grant to further study the mechanisms and moderating factors in the effects of neighborhood environments and cognitive decline among older Chinese adults. Dr. Kapil Chalil Madathil Dr. Chalil Madathil’s area of expertise is in applying the knowledge base of human factors engineering to the design and operation of human-computer systems that involve rich interactions among people and technology. His research covers the entire spectrum of system design: from identifying the user needs to designing and developing systems that inform and motivate user behavior and empirically evaluating the efficacy of these interventions. He draws on qualitative and quantitative methodologies including ethnography, contextual inquiry, surveys and controlled behavioral experiments to understand how humans perceive, make sense of, and interact with complex human-machine systems. His research in human factors engineering primarily focuses on designing and developing computer systems for complex environments in healthcare. He has explored how anecdotal information influences a healthcare consumer’s decision-making process, including the development and empirical evaluation of interface designs to support the decision making process when inaccurate anecdotal information is provided to the consumers. In addition to this research, he was part of the team that designed and developed the Research Permissions Management System (RPMS), a comprehensive statewide health information system designed for electronically capturing and managing informed consents, research authorizations and patient permissions in both clinical care and research settings. More recently, his work is focused on the design and development of telemedicine systems; specifically evaluating the nuances associated with such systems, when used to interact with older patients. Dr. James A. McCubbin James A. McCubbin, PhD, is a Professor of Psychology and Public Health Sciences (adjunct) at Clemson University. He also serves as a Faculty Scholar at the Institute for Advancement of Health Care, University of South Carolina School of Medicine-Greenville. He received his PhD in Psychology and Neurobiology at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill. Dr. McCubbin has served on the faculty of the Department of Psychiatry at Duke Medical Center and the Department of Behavioral Science at the College of Medicine, University of Kentucky. He came to Clemson University as department chair and developed one of the nation’s first graduate training programs in Occupational Health Psychology. Dr. McCubbin is a Founding Member of the Society for Occupational Health Psychology, and a Fellow of the Academy for Behavioral Medicine Research, the Society for Behavioral Medicine, and the American Psychological Association’s Division of Health Psychology and Division of Comparative and Behavioral Neuroscience. Dr. McCubbin’s research on the role of stress in the origins, treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease has been funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for over 20 years. An NIH conference grant focused on cutting-edge research in cancer, coronary heart disease, diabetes, and other top chronic disease killers. He has published extensively on central nervous system control of blood pressure, pain sensitivity, and perception of emotion. Dr. McCubbin’s research has been featured in Psychosomatic Medicine. He is active in grant proposal review for both NIH and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and he served as Chair of NIH’s Behavioral Medicine review committee. Dr. Winifred Elysse Newman Winifred Elysse Newman is a Professor of Architecture and Director of iMSE. Her research concentrates on spatial perception in architecture, ecological psychology, responsive and smart environments and neuroaesthetics with active research in data visualization, mapping, STEM learning environments, aging and adaptive environments and histories of technology and science. She received funding from the National Science Foundation, FIU, UA, Harvard, the Graham Foundation and others. Dr. Newman was a Fellow at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science in Berlin with additional fellowships from the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Dr. Jennifer Ogle Dr. Ogle’s research area is transportation infrastructure design and safety. She studies road design and operations with a particular focus on the safety effects of the road-vehicle-driver system. Dr. Ogle’s primary research area is in the use of instrumented vehicles to measure operator performance and compliance with design assumptions. Understanding how, when, and where drivers comply with speed limits, stop signs, and other traffic devices will inform designers and enable the development of a user-centered road system. In particular, Dr. Ogle is interested in the study of young and older driver populations due to the safety challenges associated with these groups. Dr. Richard Pak Dr. Pak is an associate professor of psychology and director of the Clemson Human Factors Institute. His primary research interests center on the psychological factors surrounding the design and use of autonomous technology. Machines that exhibit autonomy will increasingly become prevalent in all facets of daily life and may have an unusually large impact on the daily functioning of older adults by assisting their health, transportation, or even employment. Thus, it is imperative that we design autonomous machines to be understandable and usable for people of all ages. Dr. Pak’s research has been funded for multiple years by GoogleX, Air Force Office of Scientific Research, and John Deere. He was recently named a Fellow of the American Psychological Association for his contributions to the field of psychology. He received his PhD in Psychology from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2005. Dr. Michelle Parisi Dr. Michelle Parisi is the Director of the Nutrition and Health Extension Programs for Clemson University. She oversees a program team that is dedicated to improving the lives of South Carolina citizens through health-related initiatives that focus on health education, health access, and health care system navigation. An important component of these initiatives is related to meeting the need for services and education in our senior population, a particularly vulnerable population existing in our rural South Carolina communities. Dr. Parisi is researching the impact of Extension programs like hypertension and diabetes self-management education and fall prevention education on the senior population of our state. Her research has been featured in the Journal of Extension. Dr. Christy Phillips Dr. Christy Phillips is a Research Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology and the Clemson Institute for Engaged Aging (IEA). Dr. Phillips is Co-Director of SHAARP lab and has a broad background in promoting well-being and everyday functional outcomes among older adults. She has over 30 years of combined research and programmatic experience related to optimizing and preserving health and functional abilities across the lifespan. Dr. Phillips’s research focuses on understanding individual and environmental level influences on behavioral and functional outcomes and applying this knowledge in intervention design and implementation. Additionally, she studies emerging methods and technologies that can be used to measure these influences and outcomes. Dr. Marieke Van Puymbroeck Dr. Marieke Van Puymbroeck, CTRS, FDRT, is a rehabilitation scientist and recreational therapist. She received a graduate certificate in Gerontology from the University of Florida during her doctoral work in Rehabilitation Science. Her research focuses primarily on the use of yoga as a therapeutic intervention, and has been applied to individuals with Parkinson’s Disease, chronic pain, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, stroke, breast cancer, fibromyalgia, and informal caregivers. A secondary line of research interest includes health promotion, improving balance through exercise for older adults, and yoga for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Along with her co-investigators, Dr. Van Puymbroeck’s research has been funded by the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Clinical and Transitional Sciences Institute, the National Institutes of Health, as well as a number of local agencies and foundations. Recently, she has given presentations at the American Therapeutic Recreation Association Annual Conference, International Conference on Disability and Diversity, the Symposium for Yoga Research, and the Society of Behavioral Medicine Annual Meeting. At Clemson, Dr. Van Puymbroeck serves as the Program Director of Recreational Therapy and as a Roy Distinguished Professor in Health Innovation Research. Dr. Van Puymbroeck also served as the President of the American Therapeutic Recreation Association and is a Fellow of the National Academy of Recreational Therapists. Dr. Van Puymbroeck’s Fall Prevention Laboratory is set to open in Oconee Memorial Hospital in the upcoming months. Dr. Zahra Rahemi Dr. Zahra Rahemi, Ph.D., RN, is an Assistant Professor at Clemson University in the School of Nursing. She has studied older adults from a variety of culturally and ethnically diverse populations, their treatment preferences and end-of-life care planning and decision making. Her current research interests focus on an interdisciplinary approach to enhance older adults’ quality of life and end-of-life care. End-of-life care and advance care planning among culturally diverse older adults are important topics in health research. Advance care planning is not a culturally accepted norm and practice among many immigrants and culturally diverse populations. Dr. Rahemi’s interest is to find culture-specific factors for enhancing advance care planning among these communities. In her studies, she seeks to explore flexible and culturally competent models of advance care planning, which can be applied to diverse cultural groups to reduce health disparities related to end-of-life care. Some of her most recent publications include “Does ethnicity matter—Cultural factors underlying older adults’ end-of-life care preferences: A systematic review”, “Planning ahead for end-of-life healthcare among Iranian-American older adults: Attitudes and communication of healthcare wishes”, and “Preferences regarding and communication about end-of-life care among older Iranian-American adults”. Her publications have been featured in the Journal of Cross-Cultural Gerontology and Western Journal of Nursing Research. Dr. Dawn M. Sarno Dr. Sarno applies visual attention techniques (e.g., eye tracking) to further our understanding of human performance in applied tasks such as baggage screening, radiology, and cybersecurity. Additionally, in each of these applied areas, Dr. Sarno is interested in how we can develop interventions that improve human performance, particularly across the lifespan. Dr. Dustin Souders Dr. Dustin J. Souders is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Psychology at Clemson University. His research focuses on investigating issues around using advanced vehicle technologies to help older adults maintain their community mobility. In particular, he examines acceptance issues around advanced driver assistance (ADAS) and automated vehicle (AV) technologies, behavioral adaptations that might occur after adopting ADAS, and age-friendly interface design for both ADAS and AV systems. Dr. Mary Anne Taylor Dr. Mary Anne Taylor is a professor in the Department of Psychology at Clemson University. Her research involves understanding the incentives that lead white-collar retirees to return to work, the effect of financial factors in predicting a retiree’s retirement and financial satisfaction, changes in cognitive function and its effect on training an aging workforce, and recruiting and retaining older workers. She is also interested in understanding the needs of low-income older workers. Dr. Kathleen Valentine Kathleen Valentine is director of Clemson’s School of Nursing and Chief Nursing Academic Officer of Greenville Health System. Valentine is an international leader in nursing education having held positions as Dean of nursing at the University of New Brunswick, Canada as well associate dean positions at Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Health Professions; Florida State University’s College of Nursing; and department chair and associate professor at the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire. Valentine has also held various clinical positions, including Director for Patient Care Services at Kaiser Permanente, director of the Memory and Wellness Center and Diabetes Center at the Christine E. Lynn College of Nursing at Florida Atlantic University. She has also led regional and national initiatives to advance professional nursing practice and consulted with national and international health care organizations that range from Mayo Clinic to the Moscow Psychologic Institute. Valentine’s research focuses on the economic value of human caring, nurse-managed primary care clinics, and interprofessional collaboration related to services for the aging. Her leadership in complex health care organizations across the United States includes hospital systems, large multi-specialty physician practices, health care insurers, and academic nursing. She is past president of the International Association for Human Caring and founding editor for the International Journal for Human Caring, she is also author of the book "Health Care System Transformation for Nursing and Health Care Leaders: Implementing a Culture of Caring." Dr. Julie Vidotto Julie Vidotto is the new director of Clemson University’s Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI), a 1,000-member continuing education program for adults age 50 and older. Vidotto comes to Clemson after a 20-year career in museum and public garden education program administration, serving as director of education for the North Carolina Arboretum in Asheville, N.C., and director of visitor education/services at the Chicago Botanic Garden. She held positions at the Hillwood Museum and Gardens in Washington, D.C., and the Callaway Gardens/Ida Cason Callaway Foundation in Pine Mountain, Ga. Vidotto holds a Doctor of Education degree in educational leadership from Western Carolina University, a Master of Arts in teaching degree from George Washington University and an undergraduate degree in ornamental horticulture from the University of Maryland. Her professional interests lie in understanding how organizations support complex partnership endeavors, with her most recent research exploring successful multi-agency collaborations in community colleges. Part of the university’s parks, recreation and tourism management department, OLLI at Clemson is a continuing education program and membership organization for adults age 50 and older. The institute offers lectures, courses, excursions and social events, as well as access to Clemson events and resources. Since its start in 2000, the program has grown from 85 to more than 1,000 members. The institute holds approximately 215 classes each year in interest areas that include technology, fine arts, culture, travel, nature and fitness, among others. The program is housed in the Charles K. Cheezem Education Center at Patrick Square in Clemson. OLLI at Clemson is supported by the Bernard Osher Foundation, a San Francisco-based organization founded by businessman and community leader Bernard Osher that seeks to improve quality of life through support for higher education and the arts. The foundation supports 117 OLLI organizations in the United States, all of which are associated with a major college. Dr. Ellen Vincent Ellen Vincent, Ph.D. is an Environmental Landscape Specialist and an instructor in Environmental Horticulture at Clemson University who has done focused research on nature and health. Dr. Vincent has studied the impact of nature images on patient outcomes and her most recent research has involved the use of nature images with Alzheimer’s patients to increase engagement and reduce disordered behaviors. Dr. Ian Walker Professor Walker is a Fellow of the IEEE and a Senior Member of the AIAA. He has served as Vice President for Financial Activities for the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society, and as Chair of the AIAA Technical Committee on Space Automation and Robotics. He has also served on the Editorial Boards of the IEEE Transactions on Robotics, the IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation, the International Journal of Robotics and Automation, the IEEE Robotics and Automation Magazine, and the International Journal of Environmentally Conscious Design and Manufacturing. His research has been funded by DARPA, the National Science Foundation, NASA, NASA/EPSCoR, NSF/EPSCoR, the Office of Naval Research, the U.S. Department of Energy, South Carolina Commission of Higher Education, Sandia National Laboratories, and Westinghouse Hanford Company. Applications of Dr. Walkers work in Architectural Robotics are focused on assisted living and aging in place. Dr. Joel E. Williams Dr. Williams completed undergraduate training in exercise science and sports medicine, graduate training in health promotion, education and behavior, and in applied statistics. He completed postdoctoral training in evidence based public health, and in pediatric obesity prevention and health promotion. Joel's practical experience includes working as a Certified Athletic Trainer in an outpatient physical therapy setting, a Certified Health/Fitness Instructor for a large hospital-based fitness center, and a Chronic Disease Program Evaluator at the state health department level. Joel’s research interests include: health promotion, physical activity and nutrition behavior, obesity and chronic disease prevention and control, program evaluation, and applied measurement in public health sciences. Joel has worked on research projects funded through CDC, NIH, HRSA and USDA. He and his colleagues have completed evaluation contracts for private foundations, the SC Department of Health and Environmental Control, and the SC Department of Agriculture. He is a Co-Investigator (Evaluator) with Dr. Cheryl Dye on her Health Coaches for Hypertension Control projects. Dr. Williams is consistently engaged in service at the state, local, university, college, and departmental levels. At the national and international levels, he is a member of the Nutrition and Physical Activity Subcommittee of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture’s Nutrition and Health Committee for Program Planning and Guidance. He is also Co-Chair of the American College of Sports Medicine’s Exercise is Medicine® Community Health Committee, which is charged with promoting the Exercise is Medicine® initiative (broadly) and providing guidance on improving linkages between medical systems and communities (specifically). IEA Staff Anne Aycock Anne serves as a Research Associate for the PACT study at Clemson University's IEA. She graduated from Clemson with a BA in Psychology and went on to complete her Masters + specialist level degree in School Psychology at the University of South Carolina. Anne has worked as a School Psychologist in Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia. She served as an administrator in a preschool setting and has dabbled in interior design. Anne is married and has two daughters. She enjoys spending time with her family and friends, going on long walks with her dog and learning new things. Chloe Bloom Chloe has a BA in Psychology, with emphases in Research and Religion, and is in the process of completing an MS in Marriage and Family Therapy. Her personal interests include hiking, sci-fi, and baking. Mary Brock Mary Brock, M.J.M., is the Recruitment and Retention Coordinator for the PACT and ENACT studies at Clemson’s IEA. Mary was the Executive Director of Seniors in Service, a non-profit organization serving Northern Nevada. Mary has experience in community outreach and collaboration, grant administration, volunteer management and serving vulnerable populations. Ashley Lewis Ashley graduated from the University of South Carolina- Columbia with a B.S. in Biological Sciences in 2018. Before joining Clemson's IEA, she worked as a research assistant for the Department of Physiology, Pharmacology, and Neuroscience at the USC School of Medicine. There, she assisted in conducting pre-clinical Schizophrenia and Sleep research as part of the Pocivavsek Lab. In her spare time, Ashley enjoys gardening, hiking, and spending time with her partner and their two dogs. Kimberly Scoles Kimberly Scoles, M.Ed., is the Research Program Manager for the PACT study at Clemson’s IEA. Most recently Kimberly served as the Research Manager: Data Collection and Analysis for the Department of Family & Community Medicine at the University of Alabama School of Medicine Birmingham. Kimberly has experience in academic research and curriculum design. Jeremy Shields Jeremy Shields, M.S., LATG, is a Bioengineering student at Clemson University and the Research Program Manager for the ENACT study at Clemson’s IEA. Jeremy has experience in both academic and industry research, which includes preclinical study design, intelligent data analysis, communication and multidisciplinary collaborative work. Doctoral Students Ava McVey Ava is a graduate student in the Human Factors Psychology program at Clemson University. While her research interests vary, some of her favorite areas of study include topics within neuropsychology, cognitive neuroscience, developmental psychology, and of course human factors psychology. Specifically, she is most excited to work with Dr. Ross and the SHAARP lab in studying cognitive interventions and healthy aging. Abigail Stephan Abby is a doctoral candidate in the Learning Sciences program at Clemson University studying under the guidance of Dr. Faiza Jamil. Broadly, her research interests include intergenerational relationships and learning experiences in informal settings, such as the family and community, and she is most interested in outcomes related to wellbeing and psychosocial development. She currently works as a graduate assistant for the General Engineering Learning Community (GELC), a program that supports first-year engineering students in their development of self-regulation and time management skills, effective learning strategies, and positive habits of mind. In addition to her work with the SHAARP Lab and IEA, she is a member of the Contexts of Learning and Development (CLAD) Lab at Clemson. Tracy Weeks-Gariepy Tracy Gariepy is a doctoral student at Clemson University in the Applied Health Research and Evaluation program. She received her masters degree in Health Education and Behavior from the University of Florida, and is a Certified Health Education Specialist with the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing (NCHEC). She is the Project Manager for Clemson’s Falls Prevention program under a grant from the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Community Living. Gariepy most recently served as the Director of Wellness for Vibram USA, leading educational workshops and health promotion programs for the brand’s employees, business partners, influencers and customers. As a personal trainer and competitive bodybuilder, Gariepy’s research interests include the effectiveness of obesity prevention programming across various socioeconomic levels, as well as the use of exercise as therapy for depression and mental health. Advisory Board AARP Dr. Annette Christy, AARP SC Executive Council Member 151 Country Lakes Rd. Easley, SC 29642 Columbia, SC 29201 864-859-1208 or 864-483-8880 tbirdgal1994@gmail.com Alzheimer’s Association, S.C. Chapter Mr. Sam Wiley, Jr. Vice President of Programs Alzheimer's Association (SC Chapter) 4124 Clemson Blvd., Suite L Anderson, SC 29621 864 224-3045 or 800-272-3900 Fax 864 225-1387 swiley@alz.org alz.org/sc Appalachian Council of Governments Mr. Tim Womack Aging Services Program Director 30 Century Circle Greenville, SC 29607 twomack@scacog.org Ms. Barbara Jardno, retired Family Caregiver Advocate 367 Fuller Drive Easley, SC 29640 bjardno@bellsouth.net Alzheimer’s Memory Center Hiep Pham, MD, MPH Alzheimer’s Memory Center Cognitive and Behavioral Neurology 7809 Sardis Rd Charlotte, NC 28270 704-364-4000 CU Institute for Global Road Safety and Security Ms. Terecia Wilson, Fellow Member, National Cooperative Highway Research Program Wilsontw123@gmail.com Clemson Downs, A Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC) Ms. Ruthie Millar Director of Community Outreach 500 Downs Loop Clemson, SC 29631 www.clemsondowns.com Prisma Health Scott M. Sasser, MD, FACEP Chief Clinical Officer Prisma Health Medical Group Upstate Professor, Department of Emergency Medicine University of South Carolina School of Medicine Greenville Greenville, South Carolina Scott.sasser@prismahealth.org Hunter Kome Chief Operations Executive Prisma Health Oconee Medical Campus hunter.kome@prismahealth.org Suzanne Swedberg Home Health Therapy Supervisor Prisma Health Suzanne.swedberg@prismahealth.org Lt. Governor’s Office on Aging Mr. Gerry Dickinson Lt. Governor's Office on Aging 1301 Gervais Street, Suite 350 Columbia, SC 29201 803-734-9939 803-734-9887 gdickinson@aging.sc.gov www.scaccesshelp.org www.aging.sc.gov Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Dr. Julie Vidotto Director jvidott@clemson.edu Pickens County Meals on Wheels Kim Valentin kim@pcmow.org 864-606-3745 www.pcmow.org South Carolina Aging in Place Coalition Mayor’s Office on Aging Ms. Janet M. Schumacher, President SC AIPC City of Charleston ADA/MOA Coordinator 50 Broad Street Charleston, SC 29401 843-577-1389 schumacherj@charleston-sc.gov South Carolina Occupational Therapy Association Ms. Beth Todd, President 250 Vinland Farms Drive Easley, SC 29640-6738 864-294-1256 864-918-7790 (home) toddbrt@gmail.com SC State Senate Mr. Thomas Alexander, State Senator PO Box 142 402 Gressett Bldg. Columbia, SC 29202 Home – 150 Cleveland Dr. Walhalla, SC 29691 sge@scsenate.org White Oak Management, Inc. Ms. Beth Cecil, Mr. Douglas Cecil 130 East Main Street PO Box 3347 Spartanburg, SC 29304-3347 bccecil@whiteoakmanor.com dcecil@whiteoakmanor.com Darryl Broome Former Director, Lt. Governor's Office on Aging darrylbroome1977@gmail.com Institute for Engaged Aging Ambassadors The mission of the Institute for Engaged Aging Ambassadors, an academic, corporate and community coalition, is to enrich the aging experience by advising and advancing the research, teaching and outreach of IEA Faculty Associates and their students. Cindy Homer-Baron Cindy Homer-Baron is both an educator and a senior housing specialist. In the field of Education she was an Assistant Professor at the University of New Hampshire in the area of literacy learning and she directed a teacher training program at the University of California, Berkeley. Cindy also spent 16 years working as a Director of Sales & Marketing in the senior living industry. She sold apartments and condos to seniors who were independent or in need of assisted living and/or memory care services. She has a passion for helping seniors find a wonderful home which offers maintenance-free living along with healthcare services, if needed. Her goal is to keep seniors independent and active for as long as possible. Cindy is currently a senior housing consultant and lives in the Greenville area. She earned a master’s & doctoral degree from Northern Illinois University and an undergraduate degree from Ohio University. She has enjoyed living in New England, as well as in the San Francisco Bay area and the Chicago & Atlanta areas. Her interests are: taking classes at OLLI, reading, researching, traveling, fitness workouts, keeping up with technology, and connecting with her family and friends. Cindy can be reached at: chomerbaron@gmail.com. Dr. Nancy McKeown Dr. Nancy McKeown, licensed Audiologist in North and South Carolina, has been working with hearing impaired patients for more than 20 years. Her time in the audiology field has been focused on improving the communication ability of her patients through the use of properly fit hearing aids and aural rehabilitation. Much of her time has been spent educating the public on the importance of being your own advocate when buying and wearing hearing aids. Nancy has worked in both the private practice setting fitting hearing aids on patients of all ages and working in the hospital setting diagnosing hearing loss on newborns and infants. Nancy is a strong advocate of using real ear measures to verify the fit and performance of a hearing aid. She believes this is a valuable step in providing patients with exceptional care. Nancy is Board Certified in Audiology by the American Board of Audiology, a Fellow of the American Academy of Audiology, and has held her Certificate of Clinical Competence with the American Speech Language and Hearing Association. She is a graduate of the University of Florida where she completed her Doctorate of Audiology in 2001. Dan Roberts Dan Roberts began his career in Information Technology began as a computer operator and programming tutor for Clemson University Computer Center. He joined Monsanto Company after graduation and advanced to Director, Application Development – Fibers and Chemical Intermediates Division while developing and managing the corporate portfolio of integrated business applications, specializing in math-based planning and scheduling systems. In 1986, he founded and was principal for Innovative Computing, providing consulting and application development for Planning/Scheduling Systems and Supply Chain Optimization applications for such global enterprises as Monsanto, Solutia, Shaw Industries/Berkshire Hathaway and DuPont. In 1999, he joined Aspen Technology as a Senior Consultant and Project Manager where he led enterprise-wide Supply Chain Optimization application development and SAP Implementation for the merger of BP and Amoco, and for Cryovac/Sealed Air and Wellman Industries. Dan also served as the lead Corporate Trainer for Aspen in Forecasting, Production Planning and Scheduling tools, developing and delivering courses to clients across the US, Europe and Asia. Since 2004, Dan has worked in a series of Information Technology leadership roles for UnitedHealth Group – Optum Technology Division, developing applications and managing projects to implement leading-edge middleware tools that permit hundreds of health-information and insurance applications for this Fortune-5 company to share a central core of enterprise databases. Dan also serves on the UHG Cultural Ambassadors team that defines and coordinates communication of the core principles, ethics and best practices that guide the UHG enterprise. Dan’s work in the Healthcare and Insurance sectors has motivated him to assist in the founding and development of the Clemson Institute for Engaged Aging Ambassador Group and to continue his education in Applied Health Research and Human Centered Computing. Gail Stokes Gail Stokes is Senior Editor of All About Seniors Resource/Referral Directory for the Upstate of SC. Building strong relationships with the professionals in the senior industry is key to making All About Seniors a valuable tool for professionals and seniors and their families. Becoming caregiver for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease was not in the life plan, but led Gail to a career of working in a field for which she became passionate. Serving seven years as community relations director at a local Alzheimer’s care community, it was her goal to learn as much as she could about Alzheimer’s disease and to educate others along the way. It was a privilege to work closely with families, assisting them with resources and educational materials, as they endured the journey of Alzheimer’s disease. Gail works closely with the Alzheimer’s Association through serving on and chairing committees for fund raising events and various other functions. She served as secretary for the SC Alzheimer’s Association, and in January, as a volunteer, will attend the 2019 Leadership Summit in San Antonio, Texas. Gail is a graduate of the inaugural class of Furman University’s Senior Leaders Greenville. The yearlong program challenges the senior population to get involved and become voices for the rapidly growing number of seniors in our community. Currently serving on the Board of Senior Action provides an inside look at the daily needs of our seniors. Gail serves as Membership Chair of Upstate Senior Network, Chair of the Greenville area Adult Interagency Council, and is a former member of the SC Silver Haired Legislature for Greenville County. Gail and her husband Bryan, a Baptist minister, are the parents of two children and two grandchildren and reside in Greer, SC. Our Partners In the next 20 years, the number of Americans age 65 or older is expected to top 71 million, more than double what the senior population was in 2000. It is estimated that in 2030 about 20% of Americans will be over the age of 65 years and that percentage will be even higher for South Carolina at 22%. Finding ways to help them stay healthy as they age is a growing challenge. Led by the University of South Carolina, in partnership with Clemson University Institute for Engaged Aging, SeniorSMART involves a cross-disciplinary team of individuals passionately working on groundbreaking research, products and services to improve the lives of older adults and preserve their independence. A state-designated Center of Economic Excellence, SeniorSMART focuses on three key areas: SMARTHome, SMARTBrain, and SMARTLife. SMARTHome connects researchers in social work, medicine and engineering with the goal of enabling older adults to stay in their own homes longer through the use of new technologies and community services. This Endowed Chair has an academic home in the School of Social Work at the University of South Carolina. SMARTBrain promotes brain health through research and activities while working to prevent cognitive decline and the effects of brain diseases, including Alzheimer's and stroke. The academic home for this Endowed Chair is in the USC School of Medicine. The SMARTLife Endowed Chair in Aging and Cognition will be a Psychologist with a research focus on cognitive issues. Some of the specific research domains may include (but not limited to): learning/skill acquisition, memory, problem solving, decision making, transportation safety, accidents/falls, community/home care, retirement, and rural issues. The SMARTLife Endowed Chair’s academic home will be with the Clemson University Institute for Engaged Aging (IEA) and the Department of Psychology. The Chair will work closely with clinicians and researchers in Prisma Health. IEA News Clemson University to play key role in ground-breaking dementia research funded through National Institutes of Health Grant The National Institutes of Health’s National Institute on Aging has awarded a grant of $44.3 million in expected funds over five years for the Preventing Alzheimer’s with Cognitive Training (PACT) study. Clemson University was chosen as one of six sites across the US to conduct this study, which is the largest primary prevention trial to date designed to test the effectiveness of computer-based training to protect against MCI and dementias. Read the Full Article Support the IEA Your contribution to the Institute for Engaged Aging will promote initiatives enabling older adults to engage in family and community living communities regardless of their social, economic, or health status. Your gift will support critical research, educational programs, and community outreach that meet the needs of a diverse older adult population in the state and region. Make your gift today! Clemson University Foundation P.O. Box 1889 Clemson, SC 29633-1889 Be sure to include “Institute for Engaged Aging” in the memo line to designate your gift! Give Online Contact the IEA Address: 298 Memorial Drive, Seneca, SC 29672 Email: IEA@clemson.edu Learn & Participate Please click the link below to receive our newsletter, participate in studies or to tell us about your interest in the Clemson Institute for Engaged Aging. Click Here From The Director Dear colleagues, students and friends, It is my honor to address you during this difficult time. With the COVID-19 pandemic causing challenges – especially for older adults and those who work with them – and vaccination initiatives providing considerable promise, we are emerging stronger as a community. The substantial contribution to current and new lines of research, sustained connection with the surrounding community, and continuous partnerships with organizations throughout the state demonstrate a strong commitment to engaged aging throughout the lifespan. I am eager and privileged to continue our efforts. Looking towards the future, the IEA has developed three core focus areas: brain, mobility, and technology. These overarching categories capture the trends we are seeing in our modern world; proficiency in each of these areas is essential for optional functioning and well-being in the 2020s. Outreach activities, educational opportunities, and research studies spearheaded by the IEA and our partners will keep these vital domains in the forefront. We are also excited to open the new IEA space located at Prisma Health System’s Oconee Memorial Hospital (OMH) in Seneca, South Carolina soon. Our team is working diligently to make the space comfortable and accessible to community members, research participants, affiliated faculty, and students. Having dedicated space in OMH reflects our commitment to listening and learning from older adults and those who serve them within the surrounding community. We hope, too, that the move outside of Clemson’s physical campus will allow our services to be more readily available to individuals and organizations across South Carolina. The coming year is sure to bring opportunities for collaboration between members of the community, IEA affiliated faculty, Clemson students, and organizational partners throughout the state. I am pleased to highlight three extramural funded research studies. The first, the Preventing Alzheimer’s Disease with Cognitive Training (PACTstudy.org) is the largest cognitive training study to date in the United States. As Clemson PI, I am pleased to bring this study to the Upstate region. The second, Reducing Falls in Rural Older South Carolinians led by Dr. Marieke Van Puymbroek, is funded by the Department of Health and Human Services/Administration for Community Living. This exciting project brings an evidence-based falls prevention program to older adults in rural Upstate South Carolina. Finally, the National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Aging funded a project called ENACT that examines how different types of cognitive training impact brain health and everyday functioning. I am happy to bring ENACT to the local area in Fall 2021. With our focus on brain, mobility, and technology, I look forward to advances in research, application, and education in these areas to ultimately promote optimal engagement and healthy living among older adults. Thank you for the role you will play in achieving this goal. Dr. Lesley A. Ross SmartLIFE Endowed Chair in Aging and Cognition Director of the Clemson Institute for Engaged Aging Associate Professor of Psychology Clemson University Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson