Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > Our Impact > Testimonials A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery Testimonials Stavroula Kousteni, PhD “The TRx program gave us access to expertise and the opportunity to establish connections with a group of faculty that could readily provide advice and access to resources to successfully design and perform essential parts of the project,” Dr. Kousteni says. Stavroula Kousteni, PhD Matthew Lewis, MD, MPH The Irving Institute helped Dr. Lewis pursue his research despite having realized the potential of precision and genomic medicine to improve outcomes for patients with congenital heart disease relatively late in his training. “The Irving Institute provided a venue for me to explore this interest and develop additional expertise that would otherwise be impossible,” Lewis explains. Matthew Lewis, MD, MPH Ying Kuen “Ken” Cheung, PhD “The Personalized Medicine Pilot Award allowed me to assemble a group of clinical researchers who would become long-term collaborators,” he says Dr. Cheung. The research program enjoyed continued success through extramural funding and publications in high-impact journals, including the Journal of Clinical Oncology and the Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association. Ying Kuen “Ken” Cheung, PhD Wendy Chung, MD, PhD “Dr. Chung sees the role of the Irving Institute as “experts being able to spread our expertise to many people who are not yet experts.” Wendy Chung, MD, PhD Utpal Pajvani, MD, PhD “In preparation for my first R01 grant application in 2014,” Pajvani notes, “This application was successful in large part due to the structure imposed by workshop deadlines, as well as peer and faculty pre-reviewing of the research plan. As an added bonus, through this workshop I received five free hours of biostatistical consulting.” Pajvani consulted with the Irving Institute’s Design and Biostatistics Resource (DBR), Utpal Pajvani, MD, PhD Jose A. Luchsinger, MD Dr. Luchsinger supports junior researchers through a K24 mentoring award, which funds him explicitly for mentoring others. “And now one of my mentees has his own K20 career development award and is now funded and conducting his own research,” Luchsinger says. Jose A. Luchsinger, MD Nathalie Moise, MD To support her research, Nathalie Moise has taken full advantage of the services and resources of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research. Through the Columbia Community Partnership for Health (CCPH) as part of the Community Engagement Core Resource (CECR), Moise was able to conduct all of her focus groups in a community center environment. Nathalie Moise, MD Stavroula Kousteni, PhD Professor of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics at Columbia Stavroula Kousteni, PhD Matthew Baldwin, MD, MS Matthew Baldwin, MD, is studying frailty and palliative care needs in older adult survivors of acute respiratory failure. Matthew Baldwin, MD, MS Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS Neurosurgeon Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS, has devoted his research career to to finding new and better treatments for patients with brain tumors. Jeffrey Bruce, MD, FACS Pages 1 2 next last Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top