Skip to main content For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Search Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Search Penn Law Academics A dynamic, cross-disciplinary legal education Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions Begin your journey Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers Fostering the professional success of students and alumni Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity & Inclusion Cultivating a diverse and inclusive intellectual community Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Transformative work from renowned interdisciplinary scholars Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest A community anchored in service Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact The intellectual vitality of our community Impacts & Insights Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession Academics Degree Requirements Joint Degrees & Certificates Legal Practice Skills Registrar Clinics & Externships Journals Academic Support Program International Affairs Future of the Profession Initiative Legal Education Programs Academic Calendar Center on Professionalism Learning Outcomes Admissions JD Admissions LLM & Graduate Programs Master in Law Visiting Penn Carey Law ABA Careers For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Employment Statistics Calendar Equity and Inclusion Access Scholarships Resources Community Voices Events Our Team Faculty & Research Directory Research & Scholarship Centers & Institutes Academic Fellowships Faculty In the News Public Interest Toll Public Interest Center Pro Bono Public Interest Events Government Support for Public Interest Seeking Pro Bono Services? Clinics & Externships Impact Articles In the Media Calendar Faculty Perspectives Advocates for Good Pathways to the Profession For Alumni For Students For Faculty For Staff Library Support the Law School Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Break barriers. Broaden horizons. A Cross-Disciplinary Curriculum A Cross- Disciplinary Curriculum We believe the lawyers of tomorrow will also be experts in business, communications, health, technology, international studies, social work, education, and emergent fields. As an essential part of the University of Pennsylvania family, we allow our students to enrich their legal education by offering them the opportunity to take graduate level courses at one of our sister schools as well as joint degrees or certificates of study. We also welcome into our classrooms students whose careers and educations cross sectors and international lines. Students pursuing Master in Law and LLM degrees enrich and diversify our course discussions, contributing to the Law School’s overarching mission to provide the finest and most comprehensive legal education for all students. Explore Degree Programs Real World Career Success Real-World Career Success University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School students consistently pursue careers at top law firms, leading public interest organizations, government bodies, and academic institutions across the country and around the world. The strength of our programs coupled with our extensive alumni network ensure that graduates can enter the market working in the fields they love, writing the future of law both nationally and internationally. See Our Career Outcomes A Collegial Environment A Collegial Environment The University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School’s inclusive, welcoming community works collaboratively toward one common goal: to lead the future of law. We invite students, faculty, and staff to challenge the norm in a rigorous but supportive environment. For many in our community, the Law School represents a common ground where warmth, inclusivity, and the pursuit of knowledge are shared values. Find Yourself in Our Community Commitment to Community Commitment to Community The Law School’s approach to legal education has always been anchored in its unwavering commitment to pro bono service. Our award-winning commitment to the community provides our students opportunities that focus on impactful service and professional skill development. Discover Our Commitment I'm interested in Research and Scholarship Social Impact Local Impact Global Impact Cross-Disciplinary Celebrating #PennLaw2022 Penn Law hosted its 170th commencement with remarks from Kenneth Frazier. Watch the Ceremony and view the photos to revisit the celebration. Congratulations to the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School Class of 2022! 🎉 2022-2023 Moot Court Board Each year, students on the Moot Court Board collaborate behind-the-scenes to create and run the Law School’s annual advocacy competition, the Edwin R. Keedy Cup. Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice Race and Regulation Podcast Series The Penn Program on Regulation’s “Race and Regulation Podcast Series” will focus on ensuring equal justice, dignity, and respect to all people. Pathbreaking Corporate & Securities Scholarship Articles by Profs. Fisch (left) and Pollman are among Corporate Practice Commentator’s Top 10 Corporate and Securities Articles of 2021. Historic Clerkship Attainment During the 2021-2022 academic year, student and alumni applicants obtained 102 total clerkships – the highest number of clerkships ever attained in Law School history. Learning and Teaching Entrepreneurship Through the Entrepreneurship Legal Clinic, Max Levinbook L’22 recently taught what he’s learned to the next generation of entrepreneurs: Philadelphia High School students. Fighting Mass Incarceration Catherine Kearney C’12, L’22 has been named a 2022 Law School Partnership Project Fellow with Gideon’s Promise. AI & Inequities Dana Dyer L’22 has authored a trailblazing report shining a light on how AI contributes to racial bias in hiring processes for Black educators. ‘Devastating But Not Shocking’ Annie Blackman L’22, Co-Chair of If/When/How, a student pro bono project dedicated to lawyering for reproductive justice, reacts to the leaked SCOTUS opinion. Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice Continuing Judicial Education Law School faculty regularly coordinate Continuing Judicial Education programming to help Pennsylvania judges stay abreast of cutting-edge legal issues. Centering Youth Voices Interdisciplinary Child Advocacy Clinic students represent their youth clients on a range of issues including dependency, custody, and education matters. Inspiring Tomorrow’s Leaders Merck Board of Directors Exec. Chairman Kenneth C. Frazier, widely recognized for his social justice and economic inclusion advocacy, will deliver the 2022 commencement address. Penn Today speaks with Penn’s Interim President Wendell Pritchett Pritchett will serve as Penn’s Interim President until Liz Magill takes the helm July 1. Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice International Energy Perspectives Samuel Wong L’23 recently shared his experiences in one of the Law School’s Global Research Seminars, which yielded new perspectives on how countries can support clean technology. Judging International Moot Competitions This Spring, Manan Shishodia LLM’22 served as a judge in two of the largest, most prestigious moot court competitions in the world. Facing Climate Change with Optimism In “Climate Change & the Energy Evolution,” students learn how to use their legal skills to decarbonize the world’s economy. Strengthening and Expanding International Relationships Delmar Cunha Siqueira LLM’22 is an entrepreneur and corporate lawyer who came to the Law School from Brazil to expand his horizons. Environmental Justice Advocates The Environmental Law Project (ELP) is dedicated to environmental law and policy, fighting climate change, and advancing environmental justice Cross-Disciplinary LGBTQ Certificate The new, formalized, cross-disciplinary program will enable students to study LGBTQ+ issues from multiple perspectives. AI and Implicit Bias Veda Handa LLM’22 shares her reflections on the Spring 2022 “Policy Lab on AI and Implicit Bias” with Prof. Rangita de Silva de Alwis. Prof. Cary Coglianese to Discuss Cryptocurrency and Climate Change as Part of Penn’s Energy Week 2022 Benjamin Nadolsky L’24, WG’24 appointed to President Biden’s Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board On the Access Board, Nadolsky is eager to contribute to conversations about disability accessibility to technology. Impacts & Insights Over 35 Joint Degree Programs offered 76% of the Class of 2019 completed a joint degree certification or program Offering degrees across 9 out of 12 schools at the University of Pennsylvania Connect with Us Career Services at the Law School Explore Degree Programs Virtual Tour University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School 3501 Sansom Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7483 Centers & Institutes Library Academic Calendar Event Calendar Law School Leadership Penn Contact Support Us Jobs Copyright 2022 University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School. All Rights Reserved. Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | The Fine Print Site Login