Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Guide to Applying Comprehensive Application GuideLSAT PrepTransfer InformationTN Inst. for PreLaw (TIP)Part-Time ProgramSchedule a VisitAcademic CurriculumApply NowCheck Application Status Stats, Facts and Profile Profile and Stats OverviewClass Profile FactsheetViewbookRequest a ViewbookBragging Points Tuition, Scholarships, Financial Aid Overview of Costs Tuition Information Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition Payment Academic Curriculum 3+3 Programs Experiential Learning Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and MapsDowntown Vendors Recruiting Calendar Schedule a Visit Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) FAQ ListApplication InformationLSATNotification and AcceptanceCurriculumCity of Memphis Admitted Student Information Law Bookstore Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law Admissions Scholarships Scholarships A number of scholarships are available to entering students, including academic merit awards, diversity awards, and awards for students with demonstrated financial need. Some scholarship awards are based on the information in the application, while others require additional information. If you are interested in being considered for first-year scholarships, you are encouraged to complete the optional application questions and submit any necessary information. Scholarship award letters are usually sent no later than mid May. Through state appropriations and the generous donations of law school alumni and friends, over $600,000 in scholarship assistance has traditionally been awarded in previous academic years. Awards range from $1,000 to full in-state tuition. First-Year Scholarships If you are interested in being considered for first-year scholarships, you are encouraged to complete the optional application questions and submit any necessary information. Scholarship recipients will be notified as soon as possible of their scholarship award, usually by mid May. In order to ensure full consideration for scholarships, applicants should submit their application for admission by the March 15th priority deadline. First year applicants are not to use Tiger Scholarship Manager unless instructed to do so by the Law Admissions office. Rising Second- and Third-Year Student Scholarships (Returning Law Students Only) Returning law students interested in applying for law scholarships have multiple options. There are two different online scholarship applications. Please review the various types of funding and make sure you complete the appropriate online application(s). When applying for a scholarship, students are advised to pay close attention to each of the mandatory application requirements. LAW SERVICE SCHOLARSHIPS: Research Assistant/Graduate Assistant Application Scholarship Service Hour Timesheet Humphreys Fellowship, Herff, and Faculty Emeritus Renewal Applicants Students interested in being a Humphreys Fellow should use this online application. Students who currently hold a Humphreys Fellowship, Faculty Emeritus or Herff Scholarship must complete this online application as well. You will be required to upload a current resume and answer a number of questions about your law interests. In order to be fully considered for one of these scholarships, you must consent to releasing your law school grade point average and class rank to the faculty and staff. Students who fail to upload a resume and give consent will not receive consideration. Please name your resume file by your last name when uploading. TIGER SCHOLARSHIP MANAGER (for 2nd and 3rd year students only) TSM Application Go to your myMemphis account Click on "Account$" tab Sign in to your profile using Memphis credentials First page is "Your General Application" When completed please click on Blue "Finish & Continue" button Your "recommended Opportunities" will be available for you based on your answers Detailed information on scholarship is available by clicking the "apply" button MEMPHIS ACCESS AND DIVERSITY SCHOLARSHIPS Current students interested in being considered for Memphis Access and Diversity Scholarships need to complete the Tiger Scholarship Manager application. You will be asked to complete a 250 word essay on how you contribute to diversity at the University of Memphis School of Law. Please review the diversity criteria prior to applying. Current Memphis Access and Diversity recipients must complete this online application as well. Candidates will be notified in June after Spring grades and class rank have been released. No resume or letters of recommendation are required. OTHER LAW SCHOOL ENDOWED SCHOLARSHIPS There are a number of scholarships that are awarded to law students annually. These endowed scholarships require applicants to complete the Tiger Scholarship Manager application. All scholarships require applicants to also upload a resume. Please save your resume document as your last name first, then first name before you upload it online (i.e. "Smith, John"). To access these scholarships, interested returning law students should follow the instruction below after accessing their myMemphis account. For further details regarding the scholarship process please refer to the PowerPoint presentation linked below. Returning Students Only - Scholarship Process Overview PowerPoint Scholarship List for Returning Students (link to be updated soon) Outside Scholarships A list of outside scholarships, criteria, award amounts, and deadlines can be found HERE. For more information on each scholarship, click the scholarship name for a full application. These scholarships are not administered by the University of Memphis School of Law. Also, please use the links at the bottom of the page to connect to scholarship search engines that may be helpful in finding alternative sources of school financing. Throughout the year, there are several writing competitions that include scholarships and cash prizes. These opportunities will be posted via On Legal Grounds. Scholarship Search Engines FastWeb - http://www.fastweb.com StudentScholarshipSearch - http://www.studentscholarshipsearch.com FinAid - http://www.finaid.org Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.