Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Center for Scholars Guardian Scholars Program Main Navigation About the Program Become a Scholar Foster Youth Resources Support our Scholars Guardian Scholars Cal State Fullerton's Guardian Scholars Program is committed to supporting current and former foster youth exiting the foster care system. We provide a comprehensive program that contributes to the quality and depth of the student's university experience. We serve as a resource for young adults by assisting in their development and equipping them with the educational and interpersonal skills necessary to become self-supporting, community leaders, role models, and competent professionals in their selected fields. Our services provide holistic guidance and support for student's Academic Goals, Professional Development, and Lifelong Learning. Guardian Scholars Services Scholarship Opportunities Basic Needs Support Career Development Academic Coaching & Planning Educational Support Resources Community Connections and more Center for Scholars services Monthly meetings Study spaces & supplies Skill development workshops Summer experiences for incoming students Retention services Computer lab Free printing Support provided in collaboration Priority course enrollment Priority consideration for year round on-campus housing Counseling and Psychological Services On- and off-campus foster youth resources Scholarship Application Open Now The Guardian Scholars Scholarship application for Fall 2022 is now open. The GS Scholarship application is part of the Honors and Scholars Application. Scholarship will be active for Fall 2022 Deadline: Extended until further notice Apply Online Support Services Application Open Year Round The Guardian Scholars Support Services is open year round for applications. Current and prospective CSUF students can apply at any time. Click below for the Guardian Scholars Support Services Application. No deadline to apply Apply Online This site is maintained by Guardian Scholars Program. Last Published 4/13/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact scholars@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses AJAX data import which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.