Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies FP&C Home About FP&C Projects Vision & Planning Public Art Partner Resources News & Events Team Partner Resources Home / Facilities Planning & Construction / Partner Resources Available Opportunities 22-03 ASU Carr Hall Renovation DB - RFQ Partnering with FP&C Facilities Planning & Construction manages construction and development projects valued over $4 million for the central administration and the five component institutions of the Texas Tech University System—Texas Tech University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Angelo State University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso, and Midwestern State University. The office works to accommodate the growth at each campus by providing adequate learning environments for teaching and research, unique facilities to promote campus life and experiences and necessary spaces to support operational functions. Things to Remember When proposing business with Facilities Planning & Construction, there are several items to keep in mind. Be mindful of the following helpful tips and reminders. Read the entire RFQ/RFP Attend the Pre-Response Meeting Provide all the information requested, including a HUB Subcontracting Plan Provide a HUB Contracting Commitment Submit proposal on the right day, at the right place and at the right time Services & Partnering Opportunities Facilities Planning & Construction offers a variety of services and procurement opportunities for business collaborations. Listed below are some areas for potential partnerships. Professional Services Design Professionals Owner's Representatives Soils & Materials Testing Surveying Commissioning and TAB Construction Services Construction Construction Management Other Services & Commodities Public Art Furniture Design-Bid-Build (Traditional Method) Construction Manager at Risk Design-Build Construction Manager - Agent (Owner's Representative) The following partners have met the criteria to be on the 2022-2025 TTU System Professional Services Pre-Qualification List. The following partners have met the criteria to be on the 2020-2023 TTU System Construction Manager-Agent Pre-Qualification List. TTU System Guidelines and Standards When partnering with Facilities Planning & Construction to construct and renovate projects at the Texas Tech University System, vendors must comply with specific design and building standards, as well as be mindful of established architectural guidelines for each university. Listed below are important resources for partners to review. Design and Building Standards Cover Page & Mission Table of Contents Division 1 - General Requirements Division 2 - Site Work Division 3 - Concrete Division 4 - Masonry Division 5 - Metals Division 6 - Wood & Plastics Division 7 - Thermal & Moisture Protection Division 8 - Doors & Windows Division 9 - Finishes Division 10 - Specialties Division 11 - Equipment Division 12 - Furnishings Division 13 - Special Construction Division 14 - Conveying Equipment Division 15 - Mechanical Division 16 - Electrical Architectural Guidelines Dating back to 1923, the universities of the Texas Tech University System were founded with vast vision and distinct architectural presence. Facilities Planning & Construction seeks to preserve the past, while building for the future through its Architectural Guidelines. Architectural Guidelines - 1997 Architectural Guidelines - 2014 IT & Telecommunications Standards As technology constantly evolves, Facilities Planning & Construction remains committed to providing the most efficient and effective products available. Each institution of the Texas Tech University System has specific IT & Telecommunications Standards and Policies. Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso State of Texas Compliance As employees of a public entity, the Facilities Planning & Construction team is accountable to students, parents, alumni, donors and the citizens of Texas and serve as stewards of the organization’s resources. Vendors working with the Texas Tech University System should be aware of the various state requirements for contracting and construction projects. Uniform General Conditions & Supplementary General Conditions The construction and renovation of government projects in the State of Texas must adhere to Uniform General Conditions and Supplementary General Conditions for Construction Contracts. Learn more. HUB Vendor Information Facilities Planning & Construction is dedicated to promoting full and equal opportunity in its contracting through race, ethnic and gender neutral means. In this regard, the office actively seeks the participation of Historically Underutilized Businesses (HUB), which are minority-owned and woman-owned companies, in its construction projects. Learn more. Contractual Commitments In the 84th Texas Legislative Session, Senate Bill 20 was passed and became law in June 2015. The legislation amends the Texas Government Code and Education Code to make comprehensive changes to state agency contracting, purchasing and accounting procedures. Review FP&C's Contracting Reports. Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©