Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Undergraduate Admission Apply Readmission Readmission Apply First Year International Students Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Returning to the SMU Community If you withdraw from SMU in good academic standing, your file will remain active for one year, and you may register as though in continuous enrollment at the University. If you left on probation, you will return on probation. All holds must be cleared prior to enrollment. Returning students are responsible for meeting all financial aid, housing and advising deadlines. After nonattendance for two regular (fall, spring) terms, students who formerly attended are required to apply for reactivation. Students who were suspended from SMU must apply for reinstatement. If you intend to return to SMU, regardless of whether you are required to apply for reinstatement, you are encouraged to notify the appropriate University departments as soon as possible to ensure timely processing of enrollment, financial aid, housing and other documents. Transcripts If you attended any college or university after leaving SMU, you must forward official transcripts from each college or university attended since your last enrollment at SMU. If five years or more have elapsed since your last term of enrollment at SMU, you must also forward official transcripts from each college or university attended prior to SMU to the Division of Enrollment Services. Transfer courses from another institution Once you have matriculated at SMU, you may transfer up to 30 hours to SMU from an accredited, four year institution. Any course to be transferred must have the prior approval of the chair of the department and dean of the school at SMU that normally offers the course, the adviser and the student's dean. You must obtain these approvals before taking any such courses. Petitions to attend another college or university during the summer must be completed and approved in advance to ensure that proper credit is awarded. Petition forms are available in the Undergraduate Offices. You are responsible for making sure that a transcript of all transfer work attempted is sent to the University registrar immediately following completion of the work. PLEASE NOTE: ALL post-matriculation transfer work must be completed at accredited, four-year institution. It is imperative that you petition ALL post-matriculation transfer courses PRIOR to enrollment in courses using the Undergraduate Petition for Advance Approval of Transfer Credit. Student can also complete/submit a paper version of this form here. Students who fail to get prior approval for transfer work have no assurances that they will receive credit for their courses. Academic forgiveness Any academic work taken 10 or more years prior to the term of admission or reinstatement may be forgiven, and excluded from your GPA calculation or hours earned to determine your eligibility for admission, academic probation, suspension, honors and graduation. Name change If your name has changed since your last enrollment at SMU, or if your name changes from the name submitted on your application for admission, you must provide your Social Security card or the form issued by the U.S. Social Security Administration. Without these documents, you cannot be enrolled under your new name. All grade reports, transcripts, and diplomas are issued only under your legal name as recorded by the University registrar. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search