Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of Professional & Continuing Education Continuing Education right arrow down arrow Contact Us OLLI right arrow down arrow About OLLI right arrow down arrow Locations Contact Us History, Mission & Vision Board of Trustees FAQs Classes & Registration Member Resources right arrow down arrow Member Handbook Class Handouts Teach for OLLI right arrow down arrow Moderator Info and Resources Support right arrow down arrow OLLI Donors Communiversity right arrow down arrow COURSES right arrow down arrow Arts & Handicrafts right arrow down arrow Floral Arranging Beginning Stained Glass Frame Loom Weaving Mosaics Wire Jewelry: Earrings Drawing Comics Learn to Crochet Art History at CAM Candlemaking Industrial Sewing Intro to Stained Glass Learn to Knit 1 & 2 Sketchbook Workshop Woodworking Computerized Woodworking Soldering & Circuits Laser Cutting & Engraving Soap Making Embroidery Summer Anklet Jewelry Mixed Media Acrylic Painting Color Mixing Intro to Watercolor Paint the Masters: Monet Paint the Masters: Renoir Paint the Masters: Van Gogh Painting Your Pet's Portrait Plein Air Painting Watercolor Florals Drawing Level 1 & 2 Music & Dance right arrow down arrow Ukulele : Level 1 & 2 Guitar: Level 1 & 2 Argentine Tango Dance Fiddling: Level 1 & 2 Mandolin: Level 1 & 2 Country Two-Step Wedding Dance Workshop Belly Dance Special Interest & History right arrow down arrow Cincinnati's Lost Architects Detective Series: 60s Murders History of FBI Cincinnati Chili Pyramid Hill Riding Tour Civil War: Morgan's Raid Cincinnati Mural Tour Photography right arrow down arrow Smartphone Photography 1 & 2 Photography: Level 1 & 2 Intermediate Photography Photo Retouching Fitness & Health right arrow down arrow Tai Chi Zumba & Bootcamp Lite Posture: Alexander Technique Belly Dancing Personal Development right arrow down arrow Insight Meditation Introduction to Voice Overs Makeup for Summer Journaling for Stress Relief How to Buy a Used Car Improv! Acting Personal Colors for Fashion Create Life You Love Personal Energy System Astrology Birthchart Care for Aging Skin Angel Cards Workshop Food & Drink right arrow down arrow Mozzarella Cheese Making Soft Cheese Making Sourdough Bread Making Winemaking at Home Feta Cheese Making Bourbon History & Tasting Home & Garden right arrow down arrow Organize Your Home Cactus & Succulent Centerpiece Staghorn Fern Wall Art Terrarium Lamps DIY Home Repairs Spring Ornithology Native Plant Tour Moss & Air Fern Wall Art Growing an Herb Garden Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Language right arrow down arrow Spanish: Level 1 Italian Level 1 & 2 Discover Sign Language Conversational French German: Level 1 & 2 English as a Second Language Sports right arrow down arrow Golf for All Levels Nature & Science right arrow down arrow Behind the Scenes at the Observatory Spring Birdwatching Cincinnati Moundbuilders Native Plant Tour Bees & Butterflies Habitat Garden Plants of Ohio Business & Finance right arrow down arrow Basic Computer Skills Financial Literacy Job Search Estate Planning Buying Your First Home Real Estate Investment Gift Certificates Travel right arrow down arrow Travel Health Travel Solo for Women Travel in Italy Lifelong Learning Online Ways to Register Location of Courses Frequently Asked Questions Suggest a Class Class Evaluation Teach a Class Test Prep right arrow down arrow LSAT TOEFL GRE/GMAT ACT SAT MCAT College Essay Writing CompTIA® Certification Prep Continuing Education for Teachers right arrow down arrow Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Professional Development right arrow down arrow Healthcare & Fitness right arrow down arrow NASM Certified Personal Trainer Pharmacy Technician Certified Physical Therapy Aide Certified Nutrition Coach Business Management & Operations right arrow down arrow Lean Six Sigma Call Center Supervisor Certified Administrative Professional HVAC/R Training Marketing Technology Skills & Applications right arrow down arrow Adobe Certification Courses Microsoft Excel Google IT Support IT Fundamentals ITIL v4 Framework DevOps Certification Autodesk Revit Microsoft Power Platform School of IT: Tech Workforce Development right arrow down arrow Azure Cloud Technology Cybersecurity Bootcamp Networking Bootcamp Microsoft Excel Certification Project Management Certification (CAPM®) IMAP - Microcredentials Aspire Talent Acceleration Program right arrow down arrow For Employer Partners For Adult Learners Student Resources Home » About UC » Office of Professional and Continuing Education » Teacher Professional Development » Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series Set Navigation title in component Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) Gifted Education Professional Development K-12 Blended & Beyond Teaching Learning Series Remote Teaching Learning Webinars Arlitt Professional Educator Learning Series (APELS) The Arlitt Professional Educators Learning Series (APELS) provides early childhood educators with in-depth professional learning opportunities that promote reflective thinking and high-quality practices in early childhood education. The STEM in the Playscape modules are the first to be released, focusing on connecting STEM learning through children's exploration of nature. The Arlitt Center for Education, Research & Sustainability serves as a research site for faculty and students, acts as an observation and training resource for the community, and actively leads initiatives related to early childhood education, human development, educative environments, and education for sustainability. For more information about programs available through APELs such as in-person learning and study tours, please contact Leslie Kochanowski. STEM in the Playscape About this Series STEM in the Playscape digital modules emerged from an NSF (National Science Foundation) funded research study, and are the first APELS training modules in the series. In each of the three modules you will view a video at your own pace that introduces you to the main concept. The information is presented in a conversational way through a story that unfolds within an early childhood program. Supporting resources are embedded throughout to provide a platform for deeper investigation into a topic. Cost: Free Dates: Access anytime Here's how to get started: Watch the short introductory video to learn more about the program and how to navigate the learning modules. View each module by clicking the Access Module button and filling out a short form to receive a link to the module. If you save save the link, you will fill out the form only once for each module, and can return to them as many times as you wish. Introductory Video Learning Modules MODULE 1: Exploring the Value of Play in Nature right arrow down arrow Main Concept: Nature play enhances: Social Emotional Development, Cognitive Development, Approaches Toward Learning, Physical Health and Motor Development, Language and Literacy Development. Cost: FREE (To receive a certificate for contact hours, you can apply for continuing education credit for a $15 fee after completing the module.) Dates: Access anytime. The first time you access the module, you will fill out a form to receive the link. Save the link, and you can use it to access the module as many time as you wish. Access Module MODULE 2: Building STEM Capacities in Preschool right arrow down arrow Main Concept: Children begin exploring early STEM concepts, for intance, when they build literacy skills, they start forming knowledge about fundamental concepts like print awareness and vocabulary. Cost: FREE (To receive a certificate for contact hours, you can apply for continuing education credit for a $15 fee after completing the module.) Dates: Access anytime. The first time you access the module, you will fill out a form to receive the link. Save the link, and you can use it to access the module as many time as you wish Access Module MODULE 3: Engaging Children & Enhancing the Environment right arrow down arrow Main Concept: Teaching strategies engage children such as modeling positive attitudes towards nature and increasing children's access to nature. Cost: FREE (To receive a certificate for contact hours, you can apply for continuing education credit for a $15 fee after completing the module.) Dates: Access anytime. The first time you access the module, you will fill out a form to receive the link. Save the link, and you can use it to access the module as many time as you wish Access Module MODULE 4: Intentional Design Strategies right arrow down arrow Main Concept: Engage programs ready to take the next steps to make their nature playscape a reality. Cost: FREE (To receive a certificate for contact hours, you can apply for continuing education credit for a $15 fee after completing the module.) Dates: Access anytime. The first time you access the module, you will fill out a form to receive the link. Save the link, and you can use it to access the module as many time as you wish. Access Module Earn Continuing Education Credits After successfully completing the STEM in the Playscape modules, you may apply for continuing education credit by completing an application and professional development reflections form. Your submissions will be reviewed and, upon successful completion of the requirements, you will be sent a certificate of completion for contact hours via email. The modules are self-paced and participants can earn 0.5 contact hours per module. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top