Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Apply Programs Campus Life Resources News Support UofM Lambuth Contact Us Follow UsFacebooktwitter Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Home UofM Lambuth Admissions Admissions About Lambuth Submit Your Application Schedule a Tour Schedule a Group Tour COVID-19 Visitor Guidelines New Student Orientation Tuition & Fees FAQs Take Action Lambuth Admissions Lambuth Academy News & Events Contact Us From here, go anywhere. At our Lambuth campus, you will be challenged to become anything you want to be. Are you just beginning to figure out where life might take you? Or do you already know—maybe even have known for a while— and just haven't moved forward with your goals yet? That process of discovery is part of the U of M Lambuth Campus experience. We support our students in every way possible to get you where you want to be. No matter what degree path you choose, you will have the backing of an academic university with a national reputation for excellence. These comprehensive offerings have been life changing for our students. We hope the next life we change is yours. Welcome to UofM Lambuth As the Dean of UofM Lambuth, I invite you to visit our historical and residential campus in Jackson, Tennessee. Offering students the perfect collegiate setting on 57 acres in midtown Jackson, UofM Lambuth is classified as an arboretum and displays year-round beauty. In addition to over 20 undergraduate majors and minors, students can also obtain a variety of master's or doctorate degrees. Living on campus in historic Carney-Johnston Hall or commuting from home, students can find a number of organizations in which to be involved including fraternity or sorority affairs, club sports, intramural activities, or registered student organizations such as Tiger Leadership Institute that offer leadership benefits. It's not uncommon to see students reading or listening to music on the quad or engaged in a Quidditch match, game of croquet, Frisbee, or sand volleyball. Come be a part of something special at the University of Memphis Lambuth—small classes, first-class education, and meaningful experiences that last a lifetime. —Dr. Niles Reddick Chief Operating Officer and Dean, UofM Lambuth No boundaries within Tiger Nation. Lambuth students are part of the University of Memphis system-wide, which means you can attend classes at Lambuth or any other UofM location, including online and at our main Memphis campus. There really are no boundaries to the knowledge and opportunities awaiting you at the UofM Lambuth Campus. Outside the classroom, our students turn this intimate campus into a vibrant, fun place—made up of diverse groups, Fraternity and Sorority Affairs, club sports, events and activities. On the quad and all over campus, you will live, play, connect—it is not hard to find something going on from movies to concerts to Quidditch matches. Our students regularly take advantage of our classic college campus setting for powder puff football, ultimate Frisbee, sand volleyball, soccer tournaments and so much more. You'll see what pulls so many new students to the Lambuth Campus: the heart and soul of the students themselves. Everyone believes in the Lambuth Campus and is excited to be shaping this campus as it evolves into a truly remarkable community—honoring the rich Lambuth history while embracing the innovation of the large, worldclass education that the UofM brings. Starting well before move-in day, you feel like you belong. And our friendly, professional security patrols keep campus safe and enjoyable 24 hours a day. Visit the Lambuth Campus Schedule a Visit > View Directions & Campus Map > Learn more about UofM Lambuth in our interactive virtual tour Lambuth = Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.