Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs Meet Our Team Sierra Mello-Miles, M.B.A. Director Sierra is a native of Alaska and joined the United States Army, stationed with 141st Signal Battalion out of Wiesbaden Germany from 2001 to 2005. She served in Operation Iraqi Freedom during 2003 and 2004 and was selected to tour with the Army Soldier Show in 2004. Sierra is excited to be a part of the Red Raider family in the capacity that she loves, working with Veterans and their families. Sierra was most recently with The Department of Veterans Affairs, based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Prior to the VA, Sierra spent 8 years as a Funeral Director and Embalmer in the state of Wisconsin and assisted Veterans in utilizing burial benefits for themselves and their spouses. She also worked for the University of Phoenix Military Department in enrollment and retention from 2006-2008. Sierra earned her Bachelors of Science in Management in 2008 and her Masters of Business Administration in 2010 from the University of Phoenix Sierra loves spending time in a full house with her husband, Chris, children; Serenity, Raina and Sebastian (Bash), two dogs; Beef and Goose, a guniea pig, Skunky and their new axolotl, Ms. Mondel. She recharges by spending early mornings training Jiu Jitsu or weight lifting. Luke Stone, B.A. Assistant Director Luke Stone served in the United States Navy as a Hospital Corpsman from 2009 to 2014. His first duty station was the Marine Corps School of Infantry, where he served as a Tactical Combat Casualty Care instructor for the Infantry Training Battalion and the Scout/Sniper Program. He was then transferred to the USS Theodore Roosevelt, a Nimitz-class nuclear aircraft carrier, where he was the Petty Officer in Charge of the Emergency Medical Response Team and a member of the Medical Training Team. He also cross-decked to the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower to assist with a deployment to the Persian Gulf during that time. He has a BA in Archaeology with a minor in History from Texas A&M University, where he also worked at the Nautical Archaeology Research and Conservation Laboratory helping to conserve the remains of 17th and 18th century ships. He is dedicated to helping any veteran, or family member, utilize their benefits and time at Tech to their maximum potential. He is also a proud West Texan and is involved in the community through The American Legion and the promotion of #22kill. In his spare time Luke enjoys being with his wife Rebekah (an Alumna of Texas Tech) and his children Etta, Beck, and Thor. He is an avid hunter and dedicated student of history. Gracie Guerra, B.B.A. Assistant Director Gracie Guerra is excited to join the Texas Tech MVP Team! Military service members and their families have a special place in her heart because she has experienced first-hand the hardships military families must endure. While supporting her husband during his 28 year military career & 13 military moves under her belt, she had the privilege of working with various military organizations throughout the U.S.A., Germany, & Spain. In 1998, Mrs. Guerra received a Bachelor's of Business Administration with a Major in Accounting from the University of Mary-Hardin Baylor. Currently, she is pursuing a Masters in Personal Financial Planning from Texas Tech & is proud to be part of the Red Raider Family. In 2003, she was awarded the Shield of Sparta-Heroine of the Infantry Award and in 2017, she was conferred with the Yellow Rose of Texas Award. With 25 years of experience as a military spouse, she knows that a military career is about service and sacrifice! Therefore, Gracie is proud to assist Veterans and their families to understand their federal and state educational benefits. In her spare time, Gracie enjoys spending time with her family, cooking, listening to music & travelling. Brian Conkin, M.B.A. Program Manager Brian Conkin grew up and went to school in Springlake-Earth, Texas. He served in the U.S. Army from 2006 to 2014 in the medical field. He received a B.B.A from Texas Tech in Management and Accounting and an M.B.A. from the University of Liberty. Brian has a ten-year-old daughter named Hannah, and both attend Trinity Church. He officiates football and basketball part-time, and, in his free time, he volunteers for One Voice Home and enjoys watching the four major sports. It is a pleasure for him to help veterans and their families understand their federal and state educational benefits. Michael Harper, B.S. Program Coordinator Michael Harper has served in the United States Army Reserve as a Unit Supply Specialist since 2008. His first duty station was with the 413th Civil Affairs Battalion where he served as a supply clerk. He was then promoted into the 3/378 Regiment (BCT) where he currently serves as the supply sergeant for Fox Company. He has a BS in Agricultural Communications with a minor in English from Texas Tech University. He is honored to have the opportunity to serve veterans and their families while also serving his alma mater. He was born and raised in Lubbock and has been a Red Raider since birth. He is a second-generation graduate of Texas Tech and is proud to be following in the footsteps of his mother, who served the University 40 years. In his spare time, Michael enjoys spending time with his dog, Ace, and taking in a good book or film. Jeremy Sedeno, M.Ed. Program Coordinator Jeremy was born and raised right here in Lubbock, TX. He is a graduate of Coronado High School. He has three children and four precious grandbabies. In 2000 Jeremy ventured into the United States Army. Where he was stationed in Ft. Benning GA. For basic training. Jeremy was trained as a Combat Medic (91W). In 2004 he was attached to the XVIII Airborne Corps Headquarters and deployed to Operation Iraqi Freedom III (2005 -2006). While in country Jeremy was awarded the Bronze Star and the Combat Medical Badge for providing treatment under fire. Upon being medically discharged in 2007 due to a career ending injury he sustained in Iraq. Jeremy then enrolled at Texas Tech where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in History and Ethnic Studies (2011), he also earned his Teaching Certification (2013). Jeremy then received his M.Ed. in Secondary Education (2014). His dedication to his beloved Alma mater has led him to find a home here at Texas Tech University more specifically with the Military and Veterans Programs as a Program Coordinator. Jeremy is very fortunate to be working with his fellow Veterans. There's nothing like working with Veterans and to have the opportunity to help them along the way is even better. Russell Gallegos Business Assistant, B.S. Russell Gallegos is a recent graduate of the Kinesiology program at Texas Tech. He plans to pursue nursing school. Originally from San Antonio, TX, Russell is the oldest of three and son to a current active duty service member. In 2017, Russell graduated from Vicenza American Highschool in Vicenza, Italia. As many military kids have come to know, he spent his youth traveling far and wide alongside his family. Moving a total of 8 times before coming to Texas Tech. In his spare time, when not studying like a madman, he enjoys escaping to the great outdoors, hunting, fishing, and cooking. He is always ready to help our service members and all affiliated here at the MVP! Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:14 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index