Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Welcome Center Location 4400 University Drive Houston, TX 77204 UH Offices and Hours Enrollment Services Admissions University Registrar Scholarships and Financial Aid Integrated Enrollment Services Cougar Card Monday – Friday: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. Welcome Center × Enrollment Questions? Get help here. Summer 2022 Hours Limited Services available due to COVID-19 We are here for YOU – in several ways! Our representatives are available by email, phone, virtual (video) appointment, or by seeing us in person at the Welcome Center. Please visit our various departmental websites for more information! View Welcome Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Call Center Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. View Scheduled Virtual Appointments Hours Monday- Thursday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Friday 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Office of Admissions Scholarships and Financial Aid Office of the University Registrar Student Business Services The University of Houston Welcome Center is home to Enrollment Services including the Office of Admissions (undergraduates), Scholarships and Financial Aid, Student Business Services, and the Office of the University Registrar. Additionally, the Cougar Card Office is located on the side of the building next to Martin Luther King Boulevard. Services and resources provided to our students and employees in the Welcome Center include the following: Visitor Center: Campus Visits Campus Information Admissions Events Admissions: Freshmen Admission Counseling Transfer Admission Counseling International Admission Counseling Student Business Services: Cashier's Office Cash and/or Check Payments Undergraduate Tuition and Fees Information Graduate Tuition and Fees Information Refunds and Tax Information Fee Waivers University Registrar: Pick Up Transcripts Transfer Credit Evaluation Enrollment Verification Residency Reclassification Veterans Certification Scholarships & Financial Aid: Grant and Loan Advising SFA Form Submissions (in person) Scholarship Advising Work Study Advising Disbursement Information Integrated Enrollment Services: Enrollment Services Welcome Center Staff myUH Training Financial Literacy Money Management Institute Other Retailers: McAlister's Deli University Copy Center University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies