Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Commencement Office Apply to Graduate Graduates Accommodations Diplomas Guests Faculty Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduates Graduating Students Attendance & Non-Attendance Form Program Proof Cord & Stole Policy Student Speaker Selection Conduct Guidelines Dress Undergraduates Undergraduate Checklist Honors Distinction Graduate Students Graduate Student ChecklistGraduate School RequirementsHooding Information Law Law Student ChecklistLaw School Information Cap and Gown Pick up Announcer Information Record Difficult Name Graduation Analyst College School List Diagrams Invitations Photos Alumni /FAM Membership FAQs for Graduates Take Action Current News Commencement Attendance Form Commencement Live Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Commencement Office Graduates Honors Distinction Honors Distinction Students participating in Commencement may wear pins, ribbons, cords and stoles that represent their institutional/academic honors distinction. Refer to our Cord and Stole Policy. GPA Requirements and University Honors University honor cords are single ropes worn over the robe. The cords come in three colors — gold, crimson or white. Summa Cum Laude, with Highest Distinction, 3.80 - 4.00: gold cord Magna Cum Laude, with High Distinction, 3.50 - 3.79: crimson cord Cum Laude, with Distinction, 3.25 - 3.49: white cord Undergraduate students who have achieved academic honors distinction (summa, magna or cum as determined by the University policy on GPA) will receive their honor cord at cap and gown distribution. Names listed in the program with the designations Summa Cum Laude, Magna Cum Laude and Cum Laude are provided by the office of the Dean of the College or School and are based on grade point averages at the beginning of the term. Grades from this semester (semester student is graduating in) will not be included in honors calculations until certification for the diploma, 2-3 months after commencement. You may confirm your honor designation by checking the proof of the Commencement Program. If you think there is an error, you must talk with the Commencement Office early/by the Step 4 deadline. After you notify the Commencement Office of the error, they will contact your college/school to determine if changes should be made. Graduate Students do not have academic honors, but may wear cords awarded previously. 4.0s are determined by looking at an undergraduate student's overall undergraduate studies (entire transcript/entire undergraduate career: Every undergraduate course taken must be an A or better) to determine a 4.0 GPA . Student Marshal(s): Each undergraduate College and School will identify the undergraduate student(s) with the highest GPA in their overall undergraduate studies to act as its Student Marshal. Student Marshals are recognized by their Marshal's medallion and will lead the college across the stage. Student Marshals are selected by the Commencement Office and are only official in the current semester of graduation. We have to review student records to ensure accuracy. If a student is graduating with University Honors or University Honors with Thesis, they must communicate with the Honors Program several months before Commencement to ensure the Commencement Office and the college/school knows to add this to the program and diploma information. For more information on the Institution's Recognition of Academic Performance, see Recognition of Academic Performance Graduation With Distinction (Undergraduates Only) Students who intend to achieve Graduation with Distinction must do the following: 1. Fulfill all University of Memphis graduation requirements. 2. Earn the following minimum grade point average on both their UofM and Overall* GPA to achieve the listed designations (it looks at institution and overall and takes the lower of the two to determine if the graduate qualifies for honors distinction): 3.2500-3.4999 Cum Laude 3.5000-3.7999 Magna Cum Laude 3.8000-4.0000 Summa Cum Laude Read more important information here: https://catalog.memphis.edu/content.php?catoid=22&navoid=1128#graduation-with-distinction. The actual conferral of Graduation with Distinction cannot be made until the student’s UofM and Overall GPA has been certified by the College/School. Transitional Academic Studies courses (DSP) are not considered in calculating eligibility for Graduation with Distinction. College level courses used to satisfy high school deficiencies will be considered in the computations to determine eligibility for Graduation with Distinction. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/12/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.