Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Jane Kruskop Class of 2020 Jane Kruskop didn’t want to wait until graduate school to start doing neuroscience research. At Brown, she got her wish. Breadcrumb Home Academics Undergraduate Education Sub Navigation In This Section Undergraduate Programs The Open Curriculum Special Programs Advising Jane Kruskop Class of 2020 Jane Kruskop didn’t want to wait until graduate school to start doing neuroscience research. At Brown, she got her wish. The summer of Jane Kruskop’s sophomore year, she was in the lab studying amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), thanks to an Undergraduate Teaching and Research Award (UTRA). The next fall, she joined Anne Hart's ALS lab as a volunteer research assistant. “Dr. Hart has been a wonderful mentor for me,” says Jane, “making time to regularly check in to make sure I'm understanding what's going on in lab, making a space for me to ask questions and being open to talking about grad school, research and my career future. Working in a lab has helped me to explore and shape my academic and vocational interests, and given me valuable research experience.” Dr. Hart has been a wonderful mentor for me. – Jane Kruskop Under the theory that you really master a subject when you can teach it to someone else, she is sharing her newfound knowledge of the brain and how it works with fellow undergraduates, as a teaching assistant for Monica Linden (“Dr. M”) and Kevin Bath, helping them with courses on the human body, neural systems and biological psychiatry. Developing these collaborative relationships with faculty members, through research and teaching, has been especially rewarding for Jane. “Dr. M is an exceptional professor,” she says. “She’s been a great mentor for me, through teaching, advising and being an example of a woman in neuroscience. And Dr. Bath’s immense knowledge and experience in the psychology and neuroscience fields, paired with his approachability and accessibility, make him a great mentor, too.” The ability to apply neuroscientific findings to clinical contexts and improve quality of life is what drew Jane to neuroscience. The opportunity to do neuroscience research as an undergraduate drew her to Brown. Now, she can’t wait to start finding ways for her own research to make a difference. After Brown, she plans to earn a Ph.D. and work as a researcher focused on preventing and treating neurodegenerative diseases. She says: “There is still so much to learn and discover about the brain, and that's really exciting!” Learn more about: Undergraduate Teaching and Research Awards Department of Neuroscience Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Jane Kruskop Open details for Jane Kruskop Bookmark this Page