Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Honors College Menu About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give Baylor>Honors College>Resources & Events>Lecture Videos Lecture Videos Students and faculty in the Honors College regularly gather with professionals from sundry fields who are invited to conduct interactive lectures on a variety of topics -- the problems of modernism, the true nature of education, the politics and ethics of immigration, and the philosophical and spiritual significance of contemporary film, to name a few. From individual classes in the Honors College, to bold discussions through the Honors College Lecture Series, we are eager to inspire thought and discussion among our faculty, students, and community. Below are a few lectures presented by Honors College faculty. "From Ithaca to Emmaus: Recognition of the Stranger in the Odyssey and the Gospel of Luke" October 22, 2019 The Tenth Annual Drumwright Family Lecture featuring Dr. Jane Kelley Rodeheffer. "Slavery's End: Why Human Trafficking Thrives and the Path to Freedom" October 10, 2019 The Twenty-sixth Annual Laura Blanche Jackson Lectureship in World Issues featuring Mr. Victor Boutros. "Evolution" May 2019 Jacquelyn Duke and Chris Rios speak to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "The Problem of Evil" May 2019 Dr. Todd Buras, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Baylor University, speaks to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "Environmentalism" April 5, 2019 Dr. Eric Martin, Assistant Professor of the History and Philosophy of Science, speaks to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "How Light Reveals the Nature of The Light" April 2019 Dr. Jeffrey Olafsen, Associate Professor of Physics at Baylor University, and Linda Olafsen, Associate Professor of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Baylor University, speak to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "Origin & History of the Universe: Philosophical & Theological Perspectives" February 2019 Gerald B. Cleaver, PhD, is Professor of Physics and Graduate Program Director in the Department of Physics at Baylor University. In the following video, he speaks to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "How to Read a Biblical Text" February 2019 Rebecca Hays, PhD, from Baylor University's Institute for Faith & Learning, speaks to Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class for Honors College students. "Mystery and the Well-Formed Intellect" January 18th, 2019 Dr. Barry Harvey, Professor of Theology at Baylor, gave this presentation in Dr. Bill Neilson's Perceived Conflicts in Science and Medicine class. Dr. Harvey addressed the consequences of addressing Scripture the lens of scientism to Honors students who have been confronted with intellectual challenges to their faith. "The Challenge of Secularism: A Christian-Muslim Dialogue" Thursday, October 4, 2018 Professor Robert P. George (McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence and Founding Director, James Madison Program in American Ideals and Institutions, Princeton University) and Shaykh Hamza Yusuf (President, Zaytuna College, Berkeley, CA) presenting for the Ninth Annual Drumwright Family Lecture. "Why Louis Armstrong Still Matters" Terry Teachout is a Wall Street Journal drama critic, biographer, playwright, and blogger. Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Honors College Contact Us ApplyVisitMake a GiftBaylor Interdisciplinary CoreGreat TextsHonors Residential CollegeHonors ProgramUniversity Scholars General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Contact Information Events FAQs Give Leadership Honors College Advisory Council News Profiles Social Media Directory Faculty Meet with Us & Learn More! Distinguished Scholars Day Invitation to Excellence Opportunities Experiential Opportunities Baylor 2 Programs Baylor in Washington D.C. The Pulse William Carey Crane Scholars Getterman Scholars Program Application Tips Program Selection Requirements for Consideration Meet Our Getterman Scholars Pre-Health & Science Baylor 2 Medical Track Program Christian Pre-Health Fellowship (CPF) Research & Internship Opportunities Student Research Materials Grant Programs & Majors University Scholars Great Texts Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC) Honors Program Research Faculty Publications Student Research Materials Grant Student Publications Pre-Health & Science Research/Internships Undergraduate Research Assistant Program Scholarships Scholarships for Prospective Students Scholarships for Current Students Scholarships for International Students Study Abroad Study Abroad Scholarships The Honors Residential College Benefits Why Honors (Videos) Choose the Honors College Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Scholarships & Awards Resources & Events Academic Honors Week Laura Jackson Lecture Drumwright Lecture Career Opportunities & Awards Prestigious Post-Baccalaureate Awards Lecture Videos Publications Recent Faculty Books Student Publications The Pulse Marketing Resources Pre-Advising 2022 Meet Your Major Programs Application Process Application Timeline Honors College Line Camp Questions & Tips Apply Now Give