Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Lectures Past Lectures Oct 25 5:00pm - 6:00pm Guantánamo Public Memory Project: Confronting Contested Histories through Collaboration Nightingale-Brown House A Special Lecture by Liz Ševčenko, founder and director of the Guantánamo Public Memory Project, coordinated at Columbia University (opening event for the Master’s in Public Humanities Program Open House) “Guantánamo” has become an international symbol of America’s “War on Terror,” but it’s been an integral part of American politics and policy for more than a century, used to contain a wide range of people perceived as threats: base workers accused of espionage in the Cold War; Haitian refugees with HIV in the early days of AIDS; and suspected “enemy combatants.” Its “legal black hole” has been a laboratory for developing new approaches to immigration, public health, national security, and other issues outside existing US law. Guantánamo Public Memory Project is working to build public awareness of the long history of the US naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba – before and after 9-11 – and facilitate dialogue on the future of this place, its people, and its policies. Through a collaboration involving Brown and 10 other university’s public humanities programs, students and their communities from Miami to Minnesota are developing a traveling exhibit, web platform, and mobile-phone response strategy to connect local perspectives into a national conversation. The talk will explore the potential and pitfalls of collaborating across difference to confront deeply contested histories. Guantánamo Public Memory Project: Confronting Contested Histories through Collaboration JNBC Lectures Feb 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm A Critical Approach to Storytelling for the Science World Science Center, 3rd floor Sciences Library Question and answer session on communicating serious issues with humor and art. Guests marine biologist turned filmmaker Randy Abrams and Cool Globes founder Wendy Abrams. A Critical Approach to Storytelling for the Science World JNBC Lectures Feb 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm A Critical Approach to Storytelling for the Science World Granoff Center, Martinos Auditorium Randy Olson left a tenured academic position to start over in filmmaking and shared the lessons he learned in his book “Don’t be Such a Scientist: Talking Substance in an Age of Style.” In addition to his films, he also conducts workshops on effective science communication for the National Park Service, universities and NGOs. Get the capsule version (and lunch) on: Wednesday, Feb 13 at noon in the Science Center (third floor of the science library). Funded through the generosity of the Wendy and James Abrams Fund for Environmental Education Sponsored by ECI, CES, Departments of Geological Sciences, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, History, and the John Nicholas Brown Center. A Critical Approach to Storytelling for the Science World JNBC Lectures Feb 15 10:00am - 3:00pm First Person Interpretation in Theory and Practice Nightingale-Brown House This interactive workshop will offer a variety of perspectives on First Person interpretation as a Museum teaching tool. We will spend some time considering the theory and benefits/shortcomings of first person, as well as the variety of living history models currently practiced in Museums. Then, using our content and model at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, we will engage in the process of developing a first-person persona, and participate in a multi-sensory character-building workshop. We will also focus on how to shift a third-person program or space into the first person, and the ways in which educators can incorporate elements of first-person interpretation and role play to strengthen the emotional dimension of a third-person narration. Sarah Litvin is the Senior Education Associate for Exhibit Development at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. She has worked in public history since receiving her B.A. from Oberlin College in 2007. As Oral Historian at the Institute of Southern Jewish Life, she traveled the South interviewing Jewish community members and managing an audio-visual archive of their stories. At the Tenement Museum, she directs living history and accessibility. She has tripled the size of the Museum’s living history programming by creating three new programs, and has presented on the Tenement model at several national conferences. She was also a project team member for the Museum’s newest permanent exhibit, Shop Life, which opened in December, 2012. In addition to her Museum work, Sarah is a free-lance journalist, and has been published by the Jackson Free Press, English- and Yiddish-language Jewish Forward and the New York Jewish Week. This workshop is open to the public and registration is required. Registration fee is waived for Brown and RISD Students. This workshop is part of the Public Humanities Professional Development Series. https://payment.brown.edu/C20460_ustores/web/store_cat.jsp?STOREID=17&CATID=218&SINGLESTORE=true First Person Interpretation in Theory and Practice JNBC Lectures Mar 5 10:00am - 3:00pm Stewardship at the Campaign Crossroads CareerLAB (A workshop in the Public Humanities Professional Development Series) A fundraising campaign can be transformative for a nonprofit organization. Entering or exiting a campaign is an excellent time to assess your stewardship and donor relations program, to fix what doesn’t work and introduce new ideas. Let’s talk about how to take advantage of pre- and post-campaign periods to plan for new directions in stewardship and donor relations. We’ll look at specific ideas that can make a difference in attracting, engaging, and sustaining important donor relationships throughout and after a campaign. Bring your ideas and questions to enliven the discussion. Bio statement: Julia Emlen serves a director of development for Providence’s Community MusicWorks. She is also the principal of Julia S. Emlen Associates. She has more than twenty year’s experience in advancement across the non-profit spectrum. She has consulted on resource development with non-profit organizations in secondary and higher education, land conservation, health care and the arts. She is a frequent presenter at AFP and CASE conferences, and has chaired the CASE Annual Meeting for Donor Relations and Stewardship. She is the author of Intentional Stewardship: Bringing Your Donors to Their Highest Level of Philanthropy (CASE, 2007) and holds the CASE Crystal Apple Award for Teaching Excellence. She is a CASE Educational Partner and a member of the Association of Donor Relations Professionals. Stewardship at the Campaign Crossroads JNBC Lectures Mar 6 9:30am - 11:00am Academic Blogging, a Master Class CareerLAB This session follows from the “You won’t get Scooped” workshop that was held last semester, facilitated by Digital Humanities LibrariansJean Bauer and Elli Mylonas. In the earlier workshop, we discussed how to develop a professional persona online, and how to present yourself and your work using blogs and photo streams, and other social software. In this session, we’ll provide a brief review (if necessary) and then walk through setting up a blog and making an introductory post. Wewill also take the time to look at some examples, in order to identifyfeatures that work and ones that are less successful. If you don’t already have a blog, and you want to follow along, please go to wordpress.com and create a userid, and bring a computer with you. Academic Blogging, a Master Class JNBC Lectures Mar 16 2:00pm - 3:30pm Dance, Access, and Arts Literacy: Lecture Demonstration Granoff Center for the Creative Arts This interactive performance and discussion session showcases American Dance Legacy Initiative’s work with diverse populations, featuring live and video presentations of professional dancers, persons with Parkinson’s Disease, college dancers, students from Central Falls High School, middle school students, and children with Autism. ADLI’s programs and Repertory Etudes (TM) are designed to engage participants with multiple points of entry and emphasize hands-on experiences that celebrate American dance as a cultural asset accessible to all. In this lecture demonstration, members of a Dance for Parkinson’s Disease class will perform an adapted version of a RepEtude based on the works of American dance legend and pioneer, José Limón (1908-1972). Erika Pujic, co-founder of Battleworks Dance Company, will share her work on a RepEtude, based on the choreography of Robert Battle who is currently artistic director of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theatre. Closer to home, students from Central Falls High School will present choreography inspired by RepEtudes based on the works of Battle, Limón, and David Parsons, and discuss their work as curators and interpreters of dance with public humanities students from the Dance, Access, and Arts Literacy: Lecture Demonstration JNBC Lectures Mar 20 12:00pm - 5:00pm Digital media and its use in museums Rockefeller Library How are museums using digital media? How should they? Join Seb Chan for a discussion of the ways that digital media are changing museums. An international leader in the field of digital media, Chan will describe his work at Australia’s Powerhouse Museum and now at the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, where digital media are generating new forms of public access and interactions with collections while the Museum is closed for renovations. Through a focus on digital media, Chan will guide participants through a consideration of public expectations of museums and the relationships between their physical spaces, their collections, and mediated experiences of visitors. This workshop is part of the Public Humanities Professional Development Series. Digital media and its use in museums JNBC Lectures Apr 9 10:00am - 3:00pm Including Asian Americans in Public History Nightingale-Brown House Join Franklin Odo, founding Director of the Smithsonian Asian Pacific American [APA] Program and former Interim Chief of the Asian Division in the Library of Congress, for an exploration of topics related to Asian Americans and public history. What are exemplary and inclusive ways to present Asian American history in museums and at historic sites? How should projects connect historical institutions to communities, including political, labor, and organizational leaders? This workshop will consider the relationship between public history and scholarship in Asian American studies and will examine major exhibits and other public history projects. Workshop participants will be invited to discuss their own projects and to collectively develop public history initiatives focused on topics in Asian American history and culture. Including Asian Americans in Public History JNBC Lectures Apr 25 5:00pm - 8:00pm Now’s the time!: Expanding arts opportunities for children in the Creative Capital >> OFF CAMPUS LOCATION: see description for details City of Providence Mayor Angel Taveras, the Department of Art, Culture + Tourism, and Brown’s Center for Public Humanities will present the 2013 Senator Pell Lecture on Arts & Humanities on Thursday, April 25th at 6pm at the Veterans Memorial Auditorium. Now Is The Time!: Expanding Access to Arts Education in the Creative Capital, will welcome guests from Hartford, Boston, and the Bronx who will offer insights into how Providence might expand access to arts opportunities for children. Now’s the time!: Expanding arts opportunities for children in the Creative Capital JNBC Lectures Oct 15 6:00pm - 7:30pm Peter Richards: Urbanature - Looking for Edges Nightingale-Brown House Peter Richards is a senior artist emeritus at the Exploratorium. He worked with its’ founder Frank Oppenheimer to set up the art programs and served as arts program director through 1998. He is best known for creating Wave Organ, a wave-activated sound sculpture located on the San Francisco waterfront. Peter has permanent outdoor installations at Artpark in Lewiston, New York, and in several sites in California, Arizona and Washington. He recently completed a major work at McLaren Park, San Francisco in collaboration with Susan Schwartzenberg titled “Philosopher’s Way. He has taught at the Center for Experimental and Interdisciplinary Arts at San Francisco State University, Ecole d’Art Aix en Provence, at the San Francisco Art Institute, and Stanford University. He is a cofounder of McColl Center for Visual Art in Charlotte, North Carolina, and was a research fellow at the Studio for Creative Inquiry, Carnegie Mellon University and is a fellow at the Mediterranean Center for Advanced Research in Marseille. He is past chair of the Alliance of Artist Communities Board of Trustees. Currently, he’s collaborating with Sue Richards on several public art commissions. Peter received a BA in sculpture from Colorado College and an MFA in sculpture from the Rinehart School of Sculpture, MICA. Peter Richards: Urbanature - Looking for Edges JNBC Lectures Oct 28 7:00pm - 8:00pm An Account of Travels and Extraordinary Endeavors RI Hall, Room 108 Mark Dion, an American fine artist best known for his use of scientific presentations in his installations, will present “An account of Travels and Extraordinary Endeavors”, or a history of museums. Dion has exhibited his art works internationally, including, at the Tate Gallery and the Museum of Modern Art and on the PBS series, art:21.[1] He teaches at the visual arts department of Columbia University in Manhattan. He has received numerous awards, including the ninth annual Larry Aldrich Foundation Award (2001). Dion will be in residence at the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities & Cultural Heritage in the spring of 2013. An Account of Travels and Extraordinary Endeavors JNBC Lectures Oct 28 7:30pm - 9:00pm Mark Dion: “An Account of Travels and Extraordinary Endeavors” Rhode Island Hall, Room 108 Mark Dion’s art makes us think about how museums and universities shape our understandings of history and the natural world. His re-collections and re-creations question the lines between objective reality and subjective experience, using the forms of scientific and cultural institutions to reconsider those institutions. They subvert easy understanding of the past and the world around us, forcing us to look at the old in new ways. Dion will be in residence at the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities & Cultural Heritage in the spring of 2014 working on the Jenks Museum Project, a commemoration/re-creation/contemplation of Brown’s lost 19th-century museum of natural history and ethnography. Mark Dion has received numerous awards, including the ninth annual Larry Aldrich Foundation Award (2001) and the Smithsonian American Art Museum’s Lucelia Art Award (2008). He has had major exhibitions at the Miami Art Museum (2006); Museum of Modern Art, New York (2004); Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art, Ridgefield, Connecticut (2003); and Tate Gallery, London (1999). Mark Dion: “An Account of Travels and Extraordinary Endeavors” JNBC Lectures Nov 6 6:00pm - 8:00pm Film Screening and Director Discussion: The Other Half of Tomorrow Nightingale-Brown House Join the Center for Public Humanities for a screening and discussion with Director/Producers of THE OTHER HALF OF TOMORROW. The OTHER HALF OF TOMORROW is a portrait of contemporary Pakistan as seen through the perspectives of Pakistani women working to change their country. A series of seven linked chapters, the film introduces us to the disparate contexts that make up a complex culture—from a women’s rights’ workshop in a village in rural Punjab, to an underground dance academy in Karachi, to the playing fields of the Pakistan Women’s Cricket Team. Intertwining the religious economic, social, and political issues that are fracturing Pakistani society, THE OTHER HALF OF TOMORROW explores the richness and internal plurality within Pakistan and the urgent need for better understanding of its conflicts. A family collaboration, the film is produced, directed and photographed by the mother-daughter-son-in-law team of Pakistani-American visual artist and author Samina Quraeshi, filmmaker and author Sadia Shepard and cinematographer Andreas Burgess. Samina and Sadia will be in attendance to lead discussion and answer questions following the screening. This event is co-sponsored by the Third World Center and the Asian/Asian-American Heritage Series, the Sarah Doyle Womens Center, and the South Asian Students Association and Pakistani Students Association at Brown University. Film Screening and Director Discussion: The Other Half of Tomorrow JNBC Lectures Nov 13 6:00pm - 7:00pm Dan Cohen: The Emerging Research Environment and the Digital Public Library of America Nightingale-Brown House A new environment for scholarly research is emerging out of the steady accumulation of digitized sources over the last two decades, contemporary models for accessing those sources, and novel methods for searching, sorting, and mining them in ways that forge new connections and enhance serendipity. With a look at the Digital Public Library of America’s approach to research and discovery, Executive Director, Dan Cohen will survey today’s and tomorrow’s electronic landscape. Dan Cohen is the Founding Executive Director of the DPLA, where he works to further the DPLA’s mission to make the cultural and scientific heritage of humanity available, free of charge, to all. Prior to his tenure, Dan was the Director of the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media at George Mason University. At the Center, Dan oversaw projects ranging from new publishing ventures (PressForward) to online collections (September 11 Digital Archive) to software for scholarship (the popular Zotero research tool). His books include Digital History: A Guide to Gathering, Preserving, and Presenting the Past on the Web (with Roy Rosenzweig) and Equations from God: Pure Mathematics and Victorian Faith. Dan was an inaugural recipient of the American Council of Learned Societies’ Digital Innovation Fellowship. In 2011 he received the Frederick G. Kilgour Award from the American Library Association for his work in digital humanities, and in 2012 he was named one of the top “tech innovators” in academia by the Chronicle of Higher Education. As the opening event for the MA in Public Humanities Program Open House, this lecture will be followed by a brief presentation of the MA program in Public Humanities and a reception. Dan Cohen: The Emerging Research Environment and the Digital Public Library of America JNBC Lectures Nov 15 10:00am - 12:00pm Artist-driven Programming in Art and Culture Museums Nightingale-Brown House Museum programming has become increasingly more open, participatory, and collaborative—with artists, the public, and online communities. This is both a pedagogical strategy as well as a trend that aligns with how many contemporary artists are working. This workshop will explore one specific aspect of this model: the unique collaborations with artists. How do museum educators create effective programs that meet the goals of their institution while also forging a genuine collaboration with artists? How can programmers build an audience for these kinds of events? What are strategies for aligning these programs with the institution’s overarching mission? This workshop will present several case studies from the Whitney Museum of American Art as a means of examining effective artist-driven programs, and in turn, will allow workshop participants to begin developing such programs for their own institution. Margie Weinstein worked in the Education Department of the Whitney Museum for ten years, most recently as the Manager of Education Initiatives, from 2008 to 2013, where she oversaw all adult public programs for the institution. During her time at the Whitney she worked with a diverse range of artists and organized over one hundred artist-driven programs. She has also taught university-level courses and has a doctorate in cultural studies and comparative literature. Artist-driven Programming in Art and Culture Museums JNBC Lectures Feb 20 2:30pm - 4:30pm Presenting the History of Slavery: Three Approaches Nightingale-Brown House Join the leaders of three historical organizations for a discussion of the representation of slavery in recent exhibits and public programs and the impact of those initiatives on visitors, staff, and mission. Panelists include Morgan Grefe (Executive Director, Rhode Island Historical Society), Kristin Gallas (Director of Interpretation Projects, Tracing Center) and Louise Mirrer (President and CEO of the New York Historical Society). Discussion will be moderated by Steven Lubar, Professor of American Studies and History, Director, John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Presenting the History of Slavery: Three Approaches JNBC Lectures Mar 14 2:00pm - 4:00pm Slavery & Satire: A coversation with “Ask a Slave”’s Azie Mira Dungey Nightingale-Brown House The Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage and the Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice (CSSJ) welcome Azie Mira Dungey to discuss her controversial new satirical web series Ask A Slave, and her former work as a historical interpreter of enslaved life at George Washington’s Mount Vernon. Dungey, a writer and comedienne is a graduate of NYU’s Tisch School of the Performing Arts. Following a presentation of her work, Hosts Ronald Potvin (Assistant Director & Curator of the Center for Public Humanities, and historic house expert) and Dr. Patricia Lott, (Ruth J. Simmons Post-Doctoral Fellow in Slavery and Justice), will engage Azie Dungey in a discussion on interpreting and representing the lives of enslaved persons at American historic house museums. Slavery & Satire: A coversation with “Ask a Slave”’s Azie Mira Dungey JNBC Lectures Apr 4 4:00pm - 6:00pm If you build it, will they come? Digital Participation projects in arts and heritage Rockefeller Library Many arts and heritage organizations now consider the digital counterpoint to their physical visits a key part of their operation, with web visits, social media followers and e-commerce transactions supporting funding bids, PR stories and more. It allows them to grow their reach worldwide, to share their stories and their history with those who would be unlikely to ever visit. So what’s the value of digital participation, and why are we investing more time and money in creating these projects in the cultural sector? What can be learned from what has come before and how can we ensure that there is value and learning from our own online activities? This session will explore audience development, examine online demographics and share digital participation case studies from cultural organizations in the UK and unpick the key learnings from these projects. Emma McLean has worked across the cultural sector for over 10 years, from theatre, dance and music to art galleries, museums and heritage. With a background in audience development, Emma has specialized in digital marketing and engagement and now works with major museum, gallery and theatre clients across the UK as Digital Manager at AKA Promotions in the London office (http://www.akauk.com/). Emma can be found on LinkedIn at http://www.linkedin.com/in/emmamclean If you build it, will they come? Digital Participation projects in arts and heritage JNBC Lectures Sep 25 7:00pm - 9:00pm Panel Discussion - Who is a Refugee? What makes a Refuge? RI Stories of Immigrants and Refugees >> OFF CAMPUS LOCATION: see description for details Join us for a public forum and discussion on the stories, struggles, and successes of immigrant and refugee populations in Rhode Island. The panel concludes a month of programming organized the Guantánamo Public Memory Project, which explores the history of the United States’ use of GTMO to house immigrants and refugees, as well as its post-9/11 use as a prison for suspected terrorists. This moderated discussion will link the history of the U.S. naval base at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, to contemporary experiences of immigrants and refugees here in Rhode Island, drawing out some of the Project’s themes: What is a refuge? What legal barriers do immigrants and refugees face? How does one make a home in an unfamiliar place? How do these populations respond to and shape their own experiences? Featuring Marta Martinez (Project Director, Latino Oral History Project of RI), Patrick Sylvain (Professor of Haitian Creole, Brown University), Silaphone Nhongvongsouthy (Family Service Care Coordinator, Center for Southeast Asians), and others. Panel Discussion - Who is a Refugee? What makes a Refuge? RI Stories of Immigrants and Refugees JNBC Lectures Oct 16 12:00pm - 1:00pm Public Humanities Fellows Lucheon with Dietrich Neumann Nightingale-Brown House Dietrich Neumann, Professor, Departments of History of Art and Architecture, Urban Studies and Italian Studies; Director of Urban Studies will deliver the first Public Humanities Fellows Luncheon Lecture. Working with his students, Professor Neumann developed an Iphone App, called “Brown Facades” which provides a mobile tour of Brown architecture. Currently, a new group of students is working on a major upgrade of the App with much additional contents and new features. Princeton Architectural Press, who recently produced the Brown University Campus Guide and so far 25 others, was so impressed by the App, that it has made it the model for a new series of Apps that will be developed under Dietrich’s guidance, and with the help of his students, for all 25 existing architecture guides. All are welcome, but RSVP is requested for catering purposes Public Humanities Fellows Lucheon with Dietrich Neumann JNBC Lectures Nov 4 5:30pm - 6:30pm The Power of Visual Storytelling in the Networked World: A Conversation with National Geographic’s Keith Jenkins Granoff Center, Martinos Auditorium What does it mean to be a storyteller in 2014? How do stories remain relevant in an ever-evolving and expanding world? Join us for a conversation on visual storytelling with Keith Jenkins, a leader at National Geographic overseeing its transformation into a digital organization. In the short time he has been at National Geographic, Jenkins and his team launched Proof, NGS’s photo blog, and helped grow Your Shot, NGS’s online photo site, into a thriving community. Jenkins is a distinguished speaker on photography and multimedia; he is currently an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and worked previously as Senior Producer for Multimedia at NPR.org and a Managing Editor for Photography at The Washington Post. Co-sponsored by the Swearer Center for Public Service, John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities, Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning, and Departments of Anthropology and Theatre Arts and Performance Studies. Learn more about the Swearer Center’s Storytelling Speaker Series at brown.edu/go/storytellers. The Power of Visual Storytelling in the Networked World: A Conversation with National Geographic’s Keith Jenkins JNBC Lectures Nov 13 12:00pm - 1:00pm Public Humanities Fellows Luncheon with Christina Bevilacqua (The Providence Athenaeum) Nightingale-Brown House Christina founded and runs the weekly Salon Series at the Providence Athenaeum which for nearly nine years has featured guest lectures, community discussions, libations, and a revival of the salon culture that once played a pivotal role in the intellectual and cultural development of social groups, societies, and even countries. Currently in the process of developing a new five-year Strategic Plan, the Athenaeum has instituted a “salon sabbatical” for this fall so Christina can look for ways that future programming can best support the Athenaeum’s overall goals. The fellowship gives her a chance to assess the past nine years and develop sustainable models for creating collaborative partnerships, measuring the cumulative impact of the Salons, and creating a searchable on-line archive, via a blog, of Salon development . Christina will elaborate on her plans for the year during her luncheon. RSVP is requested for catering purposes. Public Humanities Fellows Luncheon with Christina Bevilacqua (The Providence Athenaeum) JNBC Lectures Dec 11 12:00pm - 1:30pm Fellow’s Talk: Holly Ewald of UPP Arts! Nightingale-Brown House Third Fellow’s Lunch Talk! Holly Ewald, Founder and Artistic Director of UPP Arts, formerly known as the Urban Pond Procession, will discuss the evolution of the organization’s work, which has integrated artistic practice, environmental justice, and community memory. Founded in 2007, the Urban Pond Procession originated from a mandate to make signs warning local people about the dangers of fishing and swimming in Mashapaug Pond, stemming from the site’s history of use by the Gorham Silver Manufactory. The project has grown to incorporate community initiatives, educational outreach in area schools, arts and community organizations, and collaborative actions with municipal and state institutions. UPP Arts engages local artists to do community-oriented work, and provides workshops and tools to teach about local industrial history and its ongoing effects on local environmental well-being. Holly will also discuss the present work of expanding UPP Arts to consider more urban pond sites in Warwick and Cranston. The talk will be held at noon on Thursday, December 11th, in the Lecture Room at the Nightingale-Brown House. Lunch will be served. Please give us a quick RSVP at http://goo.gl/forms/qo7n0c4OsS if you’ll be there! Fellow’s Talk: Holly Ewald of UPP Arts! JNBC Lectures Feb 26 12:00pm - 1:00pm “The Moth Goes to College” (Kristy Bennett) Nightingale-Brown House The Moth is a leader in the unique and distinctive art of storytelling. Moth Producer Kirsty Bennett talks about the history of The Moth, her work producing the live tour and the importance of bringing storytelling workshops to higher education institutions. “The Moth Goes to College” (Kristy Bennett) JNBC Lectures Mar 10 6:00pm - 7:00pm Berlin: Art and Memories Nightingale-Brown House Stih & Schnock is a Berlin-based artist duo, formed by Renata Stih, Professor at the Berlin University of Applied Sciences and curator at the Museum of Art in Fort Lauderdale, and Frieder Schnock, PhD in Art History. Their works deal primarily with collective memory in society. The Holocaust is also a recurring reference for their artistic interventions. Their controversial, often irreverent works engage a range of media in the urban context. They have been exhibited in Berlin, at the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart, the Museum of Art Fort Lauderdale, the Jewish Museum of New York and at Washington University, St. Louis. Berlin: Art and Memories JNBC Lectures Mar 12 12:00pm - 1:00pm Sheila Brennan: “Digital Humanities Centered in Museums” Nightingale-Brown House Can digital humanities centers be located in museums? Digital humanities work often is centered or spearheaded inside academic institutions. Brennan will explore digital humanities work already been done within museums and explore what museum-driven digital humanities work might look like in the future. Sheila Brennan is the Associate Director of Public Projects at Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media and Research Associate Professor of History and Art History at George Mason University Kindly RSVP Sheila Brennan: “Digital Humanities Centered in Museums” JNBC Lectures Apr 2 12:00pm - 1:00pm Foreclosed but not Forsaken: Re-imagining the Radical Walking Tou Nightingale-Brown House Buildings and physical spaces provide an ideal means of investigating the past and intervening in the present. In light of the ongoing housing crisis, global struggles over land and the availability of new technologies, Kate Diedrick (Public Humanities MA Student) and Jo Guldi (Hans Rothfels Assistant Professor of History and Public Humanities Faculty Fellow) have been re-thinking and re-mixing the radical walking tour. In December 2014 they launched a hybrid (online and in-person) walking tour of foreclosures in Providence in Guldi’s undergraduate course on Land Use and Capitalism. Inspired by lessons from Guldi’s research on the history of participatory mapping and other tools used by 19th century reformers, Diedrick is developing a framework and a toolkit for scholars, activists and allies to re-imagine the walking tour. In this talk, Diedrick and Guldi will discuss the possibilities and limitations for the future of the radical walking tour, based on their work over the past eight months. K & C lunch will be provided. Kindly RSVP (http://goo.gl/forms/98j6hVfQbx) by Monday, March 30 Foreclosed but not Forsaken: Re-imagining the Radical Walking Tou JNBC Lectures Apr 14 12:00pm - 1:00pm A Student Tour of Hong Kong Nightingale-Brown House Professor Ian Morley, Chinese University of Hong Kong, designed a field trip application for the students in his urban history course. Based upon a walking tour of the Central District in Hong Kong the app granted students a new means to see and so comprehend a city district currently defined by skyscrapers, yet an urban quarter within which intricate layers of the 19th century built past still remain. Lunch will be provided. Kindly RSVP by Friday, April 10 - http://goo.gl/forms/8jjH0UCt5A A Student Tour of Hong Kong JNBC Lectures Apr 23 12:00pm - 1:00pm Along the Border and on the Digital Frontier: Mapping and Memorializing Violence Nightingale-Brown House From 1910 to 1920, vigilantes and Texas Rangers killed hundreds of innocent Mexicans in one of the least remembered, and yet largest episodes of racial violence and civil unrest in American history. The centennial of this peak of violence is upon us. Monica Muñoz Martinez, Assistant Professor of American Studies and Ethnic Studies, and Amelia Grabowski, Public Humanities MA Student, discuss their effort to map the history of racial violence, to coordinate public history exhibits, and unveil historical markers in Texas. Martinez and Grabowski used digital tools as well as other strategies to collaborate with and challenge state institutions in facing this period of violence. Here they will outline the possibilities and limitations for future digital mapping projects that aim to create a visual representation of violence, grief, and loss. Lunch will be provided. Kindly RSVP by Monday, 4/20/15 - http://goo.gl/forms/V3puvMb7xX Along the Border and on the Digital Frontier: Mapping and Memorializing Violence JNBC Lectures Upcoming Lectures Check back soon for new events. Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top