Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Business With more than 8,000 students, we offer undergraduate and graduate students an innovative business education in a high-tech atmosphere. We believe the best education happens when people from diverse backgrounds and experiences come together and have a conversation. The faculty and staff encourage students to become risk-takers, communicators and collaborators, problem solvers and data-driven decision makers. We are the only AACSB International accredited undergraduate and graduate college of business in Orlando. Fewer than 5 percent of business school programs worldwide have earned this accreditation, which requires strict adherence to rigorous standards of excellence. business.ucf.edu UCF’s Professional Sales Program team is a two-time national champion in the National Collegiate Selling Competition (2017 & 2002) Recognized by US News & World Report as one of the Best Business Programs in the country The DeVos Sports Business Management graduate program was ranked second in the world by SportBusiness International. Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Business Administration has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Bachelors Minors Undergraduate Certificates Masters Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Accounting (BSBA) Business Economics (BSBA) Finance (BSBA) Integrated Business (BSBA) Marketing (BSBA) - General Marketing Management (BSBA) Business Administration (MBA) Real Estate (BSBA) Sport Business Management (MSBM) Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Business News Check out more stories Business & Economy Wriggle Brew ‘Worm Tea’ Fertilizer Wins at UCF’s 2022 Joust New Venture Competition Economics student Samuel Baker won for his concept, which also doubles as a pesticide. Business & Economy Metro Forecast: Florida Economy Must Weather ‘Monetary Policy Hurricane’ to Avoid Recession With the Federal Reserve making its first interest rate hike in three years in March, UCF’s Institute for Economic Forecasting predicts the 0.25% increase will… Colleges & Campus 2022 UCF Founders’ Day Honorees The annual celebration honors the academic achievements of our faculty members and students. Start Up Here UCF’s growing entrepreneurial culture is empowering students to successfully navigate their way from concept to launch. Read More Student Profile ANTHONY SURICO, ’15 Finance and Accounting graduate “I wouldn’t be where I am today without UCF. From interactions with extraordinary faculty and students to access to amazing programs and organizations, the College of Business’s engagement culture allowed me to take full advantage of every opportunity. It was the best four years of my life.” “Best local school to get your MBA” — Orlando Business Journal University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida