Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Learn More Law and Policy Summary This summary of laws and policies related to alcohol and other drugs is provided as a brief overview to familiarize students with these issues. As such, it is not a comprehensive listing of relevant laws and policies. For the full text of Brown's policy on alcohol and drugs, click here and for Rhode Island Statutes, click here. Please note that laws related to alcohol and other drugs may be found in various sections of the statutes. If you are part of a student group planning events with alcohol, you can refer to the Student Activities Office page on Social Function Planning for information on these policies and procedures. Brown seeks to ensure the health and well-being of all students. On-campus and off-campus resources are listed at the bottom of this page to encourage students to seek help for themselves or for a friend whenever they may be worried about alcohol or drug use. Medical care for intoxication does not result in disciplinary action. Calling EMS (401.863-4111) and getting medical care for alcohol or drug use will not initiate disciplinary action. There is a requirement to meet with a Health Educator, because this is an important opportunity to understand what happened and to talk about harm reduction strategies. This appointment is free and confidential. For more information on when to call EMS and what happens when you call, click here. Legal Age Alcohol is legally served or sold only to those 21 and older. Fake ID Using a fake ID to purchase alcohol is a misdemeanor in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. Prohibited Types of Alcohol Containers Kegs and other volume containers of alcohol (e.g., beer balls, wine boxes) are prohibited in any residence hall area. Individually-sized glass bottles of alcohol are also prohibited. These types of containers are permitted in certain authorized spaces only in conjunction with a registered social event. Public Drinking Open containers of alcohol are illegal on Providence property (e.g., sidewalks and streets) and in public areas of the University (e.g., the Green). Money for Alcohol No money may be exchanged for alcohol without a Class F license (issued by the Providence Board of Licenses). Undergraduates must apply for a Class F license through the Student Activities Office. Responsibility for Intoxication It is illegal to serve someone to the point of intoxication or beyond. Rhode Island law states that the server may be held responsible if s/he provides alcohol to someone who becomes intoxicated. Expectations related to Alcohol Service People who provide alcohol must ensure that no one is coerced, however subtly, to drink or to drink excessively. At all events where alcohol is served, non-alcoholic beverages must be provided by the event sponsor. The event sponsor must also provide food when alcohol is served. Use of Alcohol or Other Drugs and Other Problem Behavior The use of alcohol or other drugs in association with problem behavior will be seen as an exacerbating factor, not a mitigating one, and will not constitute an acceptable excuse for such behavior (e.g, vandalism, violence, etc.). Selling Drugs Expulsion from Brown is the most likely consequence for a student caught selling drugs. On-Campus Resources Brown Emergency Medical Services (EMS) 401.863-4111 Emergency response available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Click here to find out what happens when you call EMS. Dean of Chemical Dependency, Kathleen McSharry 401.863-2536 The Dean of Chemical Dependency provides comprehensive academic and social support in non-clinical settings for Brown students, faculty and staff affected by alcohol or drug abuse. You can contact her by email at [email protected]. BWell Health Promotion 401.863-2794 If you are concerned about your own use of alcohol or other drugs or a friend’s use, you can have a free, confidential appointment at Health Promotion. Our focus is harm reduction, not abstinence, and we will work with you on the changes you choose to make. Located on the third floor of Health Services. University Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential walk-in or appointment health care. Located at the corner of Brown and Charlesfield streets. Students can walk in to Health Services and get medical care for intoxication. Early Sobriety Group A group for Brown students in recovery. The group’s aim is to help students develop the social supports necessary for sustained recovery. Counseling and Psychological Services 401.863-3476 Confidential appointments for alcohol or drug concerns and for adult children of alcoholics. Located on the fifth floor of Page-Robinson Hall. Off-Campus Resources Alcoholics Anonymous Confidential and anonymous twelve-step recovery program for people with drinking problems. Meetings near Brown: 5:00pm Mondays and 5:30pm Thursdays in the Common Room of Alumnae Hall. For more meetings and information, go to the AA web site. Some groups listed are specifically for young people. Marijuana Anonymous MA uses the basic 12-step recovery program for people who are addicted to marijuana. Online groups are available, as well as publications, frequently asked questions and 12 questions to determine if marijuana is a problem in your life. The literature section has stories by teens, help for loved ones of marijuana addicts, and the dangers of cross addiction. Narcotics Anonymous 401.461-1110 Confidential and anonymous twelve-step recovery program for people with drug problems. Meeting near Brown: 7:30pm Thursdays, Commons Room of Alumnae Hall. For more meetings and information, call the number or click on the link above. Al-Anon/Alateen 401.781-0044 Confidential and anonymous twelve-step program for friends and family members of people with drinking problems. Some groups are specifically for adult children of alcoholics (ACOA). Al-Anon meetings near Brown: 12-1pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays at St. Stephen's Church Parish House (on George Street between Brown and Thayer).Click above for more information about Al-Anon and Alateen, or click here for online Al-Anon groups. For other meetings in Rhode Island, click here. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook