Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Campus Facilities Athletic Facilities Graduate School Skip to Navigation Athletic Facilities Brown graduate students have free access to the University’s recreational athletics facilities and are admitted to home sporting events free of charge with their Brown ID. Learn about purchasing guest passes or memberships for spouses, partners, and children. Below is a listing of recreational offerings and facilities on campus. Additional information and hours are available through the websites provided. A Brown student ID is required to access all campus facilities. Intramural Sports The intramural sports program offers team, dual, and individual activities to more than 5,000 participants in the Brown community. Sports include flag football, soccer, basketball, softball, ice-hockey, volleyball, ultimate Frisbee, tennis, squash, and badminton. Special events include a golf scramble, Hasbro Olympics, Rock-Papers-Scissors, Trivia Bowl, and Family Feud, as well as tournaments in dodge ball, kickball, whiffleball, and outdoor volleyball. Teams and free agents are encouraged to participate. More information can be found at www.brown.edu/im. Club Sports Club sports are student led and compete at various levels. Most teams practice 2-3 times a week and compete in weekly tournaments or in league competition. Currently we offer field hockey (w), ice hockey (m), lacrosse (m/w), rugby (m/w), sailing (w/co), skiing (m), soccer (m/w), tennis (m/w), ultimate Frisbee (m/w), volleyball (m/w), basketball(m/w), and golf(m). Physical Education Graduate Students can take advantage of more than 70 physical education courses offered in the fall and spring semesters as well as sessions during our winter and summer breaks. Class offerings include body sculpt, cardio kick, hip-hop dance, pilaties, spinning, step & sculpt, yoga, zumba, and more. Instruction in ice skating, tennis, and squash is also available. Personal training sessions and golf lessons are also available. Nelson Fitness Center Officially opened in May 2012, the Nelson Fitness Center features a 10,000 square foot multi purpose fitness loft with 85 exercise machines for students, faculty, and staff. The facility also features a varsity strength and conditioning center, 3 exercise studios (including a dedicated spinning room), offices for coaches and administrative staff, varsity locker rooms for the Men's and Women's Swimming, Diving, and Water Polo teams, dedicated locker rooms for Male and Female faculty, general use locker rooms for Male and Female students and staff, and a social space in the lobby that includes a cafe. Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center Officially opened in May 2012, the Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center is the home to Brown University's Swimming, Diving, and Water Polo teams. The pool is 56 Meters in Length x 25 Yards in Width, and most of the pool is 7-9 feet deep. The diving well is 13 ft deep. The facility has a seating capacity for 400 spectators and a state of the art video HD scoreboard. For the summer months, the pool is set up 3.5 days long course and 3.5 days short course. During the academic year, the pool is set up for short course only. The pool is typically separated into three different "pools" with movable bulkheads. The "Shallow" is most often used for Rec Swim, while the "Middle" and "Deep" pools are used for a combination of swim programs and Rec Swim. The Olney-Margolies Athletic Center (OMAC) The OMAC serves as the main recreation facility on campus, with three basketball courts and two badminton courts, in addition to a volleyball court, 200-meter track, dance studio, spin room, weight room, and 2,550 square-foot fitness corner. The OMAC is also the home site of Brown Bears field hockey, fencing, and indoor track & field. Pizzitola Sports Center The Pizzitola Sports Center provides an intercollegiate competition court for men’s and women’s basketball, volleyball, wrestling, and gymnastics with bleacher and balcony seating of 2,800. Pizzitola is also home to men’s and women’s tennis and squash. The five squash courts and four tennis courts are available for students to use by reservation, by calling (401) 863-1313. Tennis reservations can also be made online. Meehan Auditorium Meehan is the venue for intercollegiate, club, and intramural ice-hockey, and holds regular open ice hours. Brown Stadium Home of Brown football, Brown Stadium’s current capacity is 20,000, although a record crowd of 33,000 witnessed Brown face Colgate on Thanksgiving morning, 1932, with portable bleachers being brought in for the game. Members of both the Brown community and Providence at large flock to the stadium each fall to see the Brown Bears. The stadium is located at 400 Elmgrove Avenue, one mile northeast of the Erickson Athletic Complex. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Recreational Sports Facilities Guest Passes & Membership Intramural Sports Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants