Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram HGSE Celebrates Commencement 2022 The HGSE community came together — for its first in-person Commencement in three years — to celebrate the accomplishments of 1,016 graduating students. Read more. Watch the ceremony. Commencement Week 2022 in Pictures Sights around campus during Commencement Week. View the slideshow. El-Amin Receives Morningstar Family Teaching Award Recognized as a cutting-edge teacher who takes time and genuinely cares for her students. Read more. Artboard 1 Artboard 1 Usable Knowledge is an online resource from the Harvard Graduate School of Education that aims to make education research and best practices accessible to educators, policymakers, members of the media, nonprofit leaders, entrepreneurs, and parents. School Culture and Bullying A Look at the Lack of Basic Nurturing Care Worldwide for Preschoolers Help Them Swim, Not Sink Explore Usable Knowledge Learn to Change the World Our graduate degrees and professional education programs explore every facet of education, from pre-K through college, in school and after school, and across the human lifespan. Doctoral Programs Become fully immersed in one of the world’s most dynamic and influential intellectual communities. National Teacher of the Year Named 2022 Convocation Speaker Master's Programs Explore the most challenging and exciting questions in education research, policy, and practice. View Master's Programs Professional Education Expand your skills and professional network through transformative online and on-campus programs. View Professional Education Our Community Faculty The HGSE faculty is a singularly impressive group of scholars, researchers, practitioners, and policymakers actively working to improve the state of education worldwide. Read more about HGSE's faculty Pamela Mason Senior lecturer; director of the Language & Literacy Program Beyond the Canon Catherine Snow Patricia Albjerg Graham Professor of Education A Language and Literacy Pioneer Meira Levinson Professor of Education Harvard EdCast: Schools, Reopening, and the Cycle of Mistrust Deborah Jewell-Sherman Professor of Practice Harvard EdCast: School Leadership During Crisis Fernando Reimers Professor of Practice; director of the International Education Policy Program A Global Family Sarah Dryden-Peterson Associate Professor of Education; director of Refugee REACH (Research, Education, and Action for Change and Hope) A Path to Opportunity for Refugees Students and Alumni Through their work across all areas of the education sector, our students and alumni work to ensure that every child has the opportunity to fulfill his or her potential. Read more about our students and alumni Andrew Brennen Ed.M. student Amplifying Student Voice Jorge Cuartas Ph.D. student The Consequences of Corporal Punishment Yasmine El Baggari Ed.M. student The Educational Benefits of Travel Lynette Tannis Ed.M.’10, Ed.D.’13; Adjunct lecturer on education Virtual Running Records During the Pandemic Zakiya Smith Ellis Ed.M.'07; Chief policy adviser, New Jersey governor’s office Pushing for Post-Secondary Success News and Announcements See All News June 1 The Impact of Immigration on Families June 1 Exploring the Effects of Desegregation May 28 Celebrating the Classes of 2020 and 2021 See All News Connect With Us hgse harvardeducation LinkedIn It's not the end - just a new beginning. #HGSE22 #HGSE21 #HGSE20 #Harvard22 https://t.co/sc4oJOb5Ip May 29 "This is not a story of your hardships. Instead, it is a story of how you've found ways to thrive even in the face… https://t.co/VtowZtUSr0 May 28 Following her moving speech at this year's Convocation, read about how Kim Frusciante is working to improve early c… https://t.co/w9cZCdKueE May 27 Professor Richard Light and @AllisonJegla Ed.M. '20 argue that it is vital for faculty to test new approaches when… https://t.co/jKlao0Z5zw May 20 The first 1,000 days of life are crucial in a child’s growth and development. But what about the next 1,000 days?… https://t.co/oGt1wyTIRu May 19 Join us in celebrating more winners of our Intellectual Contribution Awards! Every year, one graduating Ed.M. st… https://t.co/PGdxA7VPDw May 19 Our master's candidate JunJun Feng shares her experiences for #AAPIHeritageMonth. https://t.co/2NkJEG3nBV May 16 Following the release of the Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery report, Professor @meiralevinson with Ph.D. students O… https://t.co/0l3f7a6wC3 May 16 On Monday, we're joined by Holocaust survivor Ruth Steinfeld and high school teacher Laporche Abram to discuss ways… https://t.co/eOrhFi6Qcn May 15 Associate Professor @drydenpeterson spoke with @KristiEaton about how educators can support refugee students as the… https://t.co/ejiLdDpVhZ May 13 "When we speak our Indigenous language, we are breathing life into a past that others tried to erase." Master's ca… https://t.co/IGAMS6kgJR May 12 Leaders need mentors, too. From @UKnowHGSE, take a look at how mentorship programs can help build confidence and r… https://t.co/EQ07Y74n1T May 12 What does motherhood look like when families are separated by borders? Associate Professor @GabrielleMRO shares in… https://t.co/QIiPbe540P May 11 We're exploring the power of personal narrative and identity as a tool for teaching & understanding history. Join… https://t.co/dU9Z5Adxgz May 11 Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice