Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Graduate School Menu Search TTU Graduate School Academic Progress Doctoral Students 1. Before Your First Term 2. During Your Program 3. Completing Your Degree FAQs Before Your First Term Be sure to visit Newly Admitted Students page as it will be helpful in preparing to come to Texas Tech University. Read the University Catalog - The University Catalog is a wealth of information during your time at TTU. Please familiarize yourself with the Graduate school section of the catalog. The catalog can be found here: http://catalog.ttu.edu/. The graduate school section can be found here. Transfer Coursework and Degree Plan - During your first year at TTU, you will be expected to complete a Degree Plan form. This form is a tentative road map towards your degree. Your department and advisor will help you choose the courses for your degree plan, and determine which courses can transfer and be used towards your degree. Be sure to submit official transcripts and list what courses you will use according to these guidelines. A certified line-by-line credential evaluation must be provided for international coursework you wish to transfer towards your degree. Please visit https://www.naces.org/members for a list of accredited credential evaluation providers. During Your Program Degree Plan - Degree plans for Doctoral students can be found here. Your degree plan should be completed within the first year at Texas Tech. The degree plan is a tentative outline of the courses you will take during your degree and lists any transfer work that will count towards your degree. Similarly, this should list your committee and dissertation title if known. Your advisor should submit your degree plan to the graduate school directly. Dates and Deadlines Students are expected to be familiar with dates and deadlines. The TTU academic calendar can be found here: https://www.depts.ttu.edu/officialpublications/calendar/ For graduating students, please refer to the Graduation Deadlines tab on this website as well as the "Completing your degree" section. Continuous Enrollment The continuous enrollment requirement is a Texas Tech University policy regarding how many hours a student should enroll in each term. Full-time for a Doctoral student is typically between 9 and 13 hours and for other graduate students, 9 and 16 hours. The continuous enrollment requirement varies from each student based on a number of factors. The details of this requirement can be viewed here. But for most students, if you are receiving University funding, you must be enrolled full time. If you have begun Thesis or Dissertation hours, you must enroll in 6000 or 8000-level courses each term, including summer, until you graduate. In your final term, you should enroll in 3 hours. Changing or Adding Programs Texas Tech University offers a number of different certificates and majors. If you wish to change programs or add another program to your degree, you must submit a new application through our Admissions portal here. This includes but is not limited to adding new levels of study and enrolling in certificate programs offered at Texas Tech. This includes but is not limited to adding new levels of study and enrolling in certificate programs offered at Texas Tech. https://catalog.ttu.edu/content.php?catoid=2&navoid=188#about-the-graduate-school Registration Changes Adding or dropping a course: Open registration for a given term begins in the prior semester and stays open until about the first week of classes. Beyond this date, your advisor can add or drop courses by requesting them in Sharepoint. If a student has sat out for a semester, either on an approved leave of absence or due to withdrawing from the university, students must be readmitted to the graduate school. Time Ticket errors may occur when a student's graduation date is not updated in the system. If you are having this error, please change your graduation date in Raiderlink or request your advisor to Submit a Change of Graduation Date request. Completing Your Degree Apply to Graduate The application to graduate is mandatory for all students intending to graduate. You can apply up to one year in advance. The application to graduate initiates the audit process at the graduate school, and the deadline is strict. Failure to apply by the given semester's deadline will result in extending your graduation to the next term. You can Apply Here. If you receive an error message that you have no terms available, you have either already applied or your graduation date needs to be updated. You can do this in your Raiderlink MyTech tab in the Current Term section. Dissertations and Theses Students should complete the Defense Notification Format least three weeks prior to defending. This document should be submitted by their advisor to the graduate school. Graduate advisors should then submit the approval form indicating successful defense and acceptance of thesis/dissertation by committee via the Oral Exam and Thesis/Dissertation Approval Form Thesis/dissertation is formatted according to Graduate School guidelines. Thesis/dissertation is submitted for formatting review via the ETD Electronic Thesis and Dissertation webpage. Complete corrections for Thesis and Dissertation corrections and resubmit to the graduate school by the allotted deadline. Commencement information. FAQs I am having a problem registering. Who should I contact? When you register, you may receive an error message in Raiderlink. If the message is about a hold, you can check who applied your hold in the TTU MyTech section of Raiderlink under Registration Status. If the message indicates a time ticket, your Graduate advisor should request a time ticket from the graduate school. Most other issues in registration can best be handled by your Graduate Advisor. How and when do I apply to graduate? You can apply to graduate UP TO 1 YEAR before your graduating term. The Application to Graduate can be completed in your Raiderlink (https://apps.texastech.edu/graduationApplication). Note: If you are receiving the error that you do not have a graduating term, there are three possible issues: your expected graduation date is incorrect, you have missed the deadline to apply, or you have already applied. You may need change your graduation date in Raiderlink or have your Graduate Advisor submit a request to change your graduation date. What forms should I turn in to Enrollment Services? Most forms you complete cannot be hand-delivered to the graduate school. Each department is different in how they handle documents, but most documents should be turned in to the graduate advisor in your department or the faculty advisor of your program. Our paper documents explain the method for how to submit these to the graduate school at the bottom of the page. Where can I turn in my Thesis or Dissertation? The ETD system (Electronic Thesis and Dissertation) allows you to view your submission status and submit your documents online. Please find more information in the Master's and Doctoral Program tabs. I am graduating this semester and want to know if I'm on track. Who should I contact? In your graduating term, the Enrollment Services Team audits all students for graduation after the deadline to Apply to Graduate. After audits have begun, your advisor has access to see any requirements that you may be missing. If you are graduating at a later term, your advisor is the best person to contact regarding your progress to graduation. What is the purpose of the Enrollment Services Division of the Graduate School? The enrollment services division of the Graduate School is responsible for maintaining documentation of students who are currently enrolled at Texas Tech all the way through graduation. Enrollment Services is responsible for maintaining academic records, enrollment requirements, and graduation requirements through each student's academic career. I have a question that isn't answered above. Where can I find the answer to my question? All graduate students are expected to be familiar with the University Catalog. At the graduate school, we strongly suggest searching the catalog first. This will likely answer any questions that you may have, and it allows us to focus on student records and processing documents. If you cannot find the answer to your question in the catalog, you may contact the Liaison of your college. Doctoral Program Detailed Actions Double TDouble T Apply EventsEvents Events HeartHeart Give Contact Contact UsContact Contact Us Contact Us Graduate School Like Graduate School on FacebookLike Graduate School on Facebook Follow Graduate School on twitterFollow Graduate School on twitter Subscribe to Graduate School on YouTubeSubscribe to Graduate School on YouTube Address Administration Building 328, Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409-1030 Phone 806.742.2787 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJun 29, 2021 4:20 PM Graduate School About Graduate School About Back Office of the Dean Graduate School About Office of the Dean Back Leadership & Staff Office of Postdoctoral Affairs Dean's Advisory Council Graduate Council Graduate School About Back About Graduate Council Members Minutes Archive Initiatives/ Reports Graduate School About Back 18 Characteristics of Doctoral Programs Strategic Plan Year in Review Graduate Program Review Coalition of Next Generation Life Sciences Rankings Admissions Graduate School Admissions Back Prospective Students Graduate School Admissions Back How to Apply Apply Now Join Mailing List Admissions Information Graduate School Admissions Back Help Center & FAQ Residency Information Tuition & Fees Newly Admitted Students Graduate School Admissions Back Admitted Checklist New Graduate Student Orientation Admissions Team Graduate Programs Graduate School Graduate Programs Back All Graduate Programs Accelerated Bachelor to Master's Programs Graduate Certificates Interdisciplinary Degrees Graduate School Graduate Programs Back About Self-designed Programs Arid Land Studies Biotechnology Heritage and Museum Sciences, MA Interdisciplinary Master of Science - Energy Land-Use Planning, Management, and Design, Ph.D. Wind Science and Engineering, Ph.D. Professional Science Masters Graduate School Graduate Programs Back Program Overview Admission Requirements Application Process & Deadlines Contact Us Financial Support Graduate School Financial Support Back Funding Your Education Graduate School Financial Support Back About Financial Aid Assistantships Tuition & Fees Student Employment Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Fellowships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Staff & Contact Information Graduate School Fellowships & Assistantships Graduate School Financial Support Back About Recruitment Opportunities General Fellowships Doctoral Fellowships Student Requirements External Fellowships & Grants Graduate School Financial Support Back About Resources Search For Opportunities Submit & Followup Student Support/Recognition Graduate School Financial Support Back Student Travel Graduate Student Research Support Awards Raider Relief Fund Academic Progress Graduate School Academic Progress Back About & Contact Current Students Graduate School Academic Progress Back Responsible Academic Conduct Training Doctoral Students Master's Thesis Students Master's Non-Thesis Students Non-Degree Students Current Student Links Thesis & Dissertation Graduate School Academic Progress Back What You Need To Know Format Defend & Submit Your Document Thesis & Dissertation Forms ETD Checklist Graduation Deadlines Graduate School Academic Progress Back Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Commencement Information Student Services Graduate School Academic Progress Back Forms & Resources Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Career Services Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back Professional Development Graduate School Professional Development Back About Graduate Center Graduate Writing Center Groundwork Program TEACH Program Workshops & Training Career Services Distance Education Resources The Versatile Ph.D. Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Alumni & Friends Graduate School Back Giving Priorities Career Services Stay Connected Contact Us Student Spotlight Graduate School Student Spotlight Back Student Appreciation Alumni Newsletter Graduate School Back Summer 2021 Alumni Survey Graduate School Back Spring 2021 Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index