Home Home Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni School of Public Health School of Public Health F-363 Magnuson Health Sciences Center F 206-685-3057 Website Faculty Website sphsas@uw.edu PUBLIC HEALTH-GLOBAL HEALTH MAJOR: Ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. Graduates use the degree as a foundation for a range of career and educational options in business, economics, education, health sciences, law, public health, and social and behavioral sciences. FOOD SYSTEMS, NUTRITION, AND HEALTH MAJOR: Get exposed to the complex intersections and relationships among food, policy, labor, social justice, economics, the environment, culture, and population health. Graduates address issues such as domestic and global food and nutrition security. NUTRITION MINOR: Acquire a foundation of knowledge in nutritional sciences, food systems, and food studies and their relationship to population health. Undergraduate Programs Program of Study: Major: Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Program of Study: Major: Health Informatics and Health Information Management Bachelor of Science in Health Informatics and Health Information Management Program of Study: Major: Public Health-Global Health Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Education and Promotion Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Nutritional Sciences Program of Study: Minor: Nutritional Sciences Minor in Nutrition Graduate Programs Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Nutritional Sciences) Doctor Of Philosophy (Nutritional Sciences) Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Health Genetics) Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Health Genetics) Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Advanced Clinical Research Methods Graduate Certificate In Advanced Clinical Research Methods Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Basic Clinical Research Methods Graduate Certificate In Basic Clinical Research Methods Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Biobehavioral Cancer Prevention And Control Graduate Certificate In Biobehavioral Cancer Prevention And Control Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Health Management Graduate Certificate In Health Management Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Public Health Graduate Certificate In Public Health ( Global Injury And Violence Prevention) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Climate And Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Emergency Preparedness And Response) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Global Health Of Women, Adolecents, And Children) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Behavior And Health Promotion) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Policy) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (HIV And Sexually Transmitted Infections) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (International Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Maternal And Child Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (One Health) Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Public Health Graduate Certificate In Public Health Practice Program of Study: Master Of Health Administration Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Program of Study: Master Of Health Administration Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Program of Study: Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management (Advanced Standing) Program of Study: Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Capstone option) Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Thesis option) Program of Study: Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Capstone option) Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Thesis option) Program of Study: Master Of Science (Public Health Genetics) Master Of Science (Public Health Genetics) Undergraduate Programs School of Public Health F-363 Magnuson Health Sciences Center F 206-685-3057 sphsas@uw.edu Program of Study: Major: Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Program Overview The Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major, leading to a Bachelor of Arts, exposes students to the complex intersections and relationships among food, policy, labor, social justice, economics, the environment, culture, and population health. Graduates will have competency in food systems, nutrition, public health, social and economic equity, and sustainability, as well as strong liberal arts preparation in intellectual and practical skills like inquiry, analysis, communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving all of which enables them to address issues such as domestic and global food and nutrition security. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Recommended Preparation Suggested First-and Second-Year Courses: biology, chemistry, composition or writing, statistics, and courses that satisfy the interdisciplinary breadth requirement for the major. Admission Requirements NUTR 200 English composition (5 credits) with minimum 2.0 grade Minimum 45 credits Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA Upon completion of the above, students may declare the major every quarter. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Completion Requirements 84-86 credits Science Literacy (10-11 credits) one of BIOL 118 (preferred), BIOL 161, BIOL 162, or BIOL 180 (5 credits) one of CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145 (5-6 credits) Interdisciplinary Breadth (15 credits) one of ECON 200, FISH 230/ECON 230, or ESRM 235/ECON 235/ENVIR 235 (5 credits) Approved courses representing areas that influence food systems. See adviser or website for current approved list. (10 credits) Research Methods and Technologies (9-10 credits) Statistics: one of BIOST 310, QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, or STAT 311 (4-5 credits) Methods: one of ENVIR 301, GEOG 425, NUTR 202, or SOC 300 (5 credits) Food Systems Core (30 credits with a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA): NUTR 200, NUTR 302, NUTR 303, NUTR 402, NUTR 412, NUTR 493 Upper-Division Electives (20 credits): Organized around concentration areas. See adviser or website for current approved list. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Food Studies, Nutrition, and Health, an interdisciplinary liberal arts major, exposes students to a complex and comprehensive model of the intersections and relationships among food, policy, labor, social justice, economics, the environment, culture, and health to prepare them to address issues such as domestic and global food and nutrition security. Instructional and Research Facilities: The School of Public Health includes over 30 research centers. Honors Options Available: See adviser for details. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Experiential learning is available through service-learning, hands-on laboratories, and real world problem-solving activities throughout the core courses. See adviser for details. Department Scholarships: See adviser for details. Student Organizations/Associations: See adviser for details. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Health Informatics and Health Information Management Program Overview The UW Bachelor of Science in Health Informatics and Health Information Management (HIHIME) program is designed to help you develop the knowledge and skills needed to govern and manage data and administer information technology systems in health care settings. Our multidisciplinary curriculum combines, management, IT, informatics, finance, law, medicine and health sciences – positioning you for a range of career possibilities. HIHIM graduates work in areas such as medical records administration, data analysis and informatics, coding and billing, and regulatory compliance. HIHIM is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM), offered by the UW Dept. of Health Services in the SPH. HIHIM undergraduates are eligible to take the AHIMA national certifying exam, to become a registered health information administrator. RHIA certification is an industry-recognized credential and a proof of expertise in the field. This program of study leads to the following credential: Bachelor of Science in Health Informatics and Health Information Management Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Human anatomy and physiology (laboratory course); statistics; medical terminology; English composition; technical writing; interpersonal communication; public speaking; and distribution of general education and Areas of Knowledge courses. Admission Requirements Admission is competitive. Admission is for autumn quarter. Early Admission Application for early admission submitted between November and February 15 All courses required for admission must be completed at the time of application: Introductory statistics: see department website for list of approved courses Human anatomy and physiology (laboratory preferred): see department website for list of approved courses Minimum 90 transfer or UW credits completed at time of application Transfer applicants apply to UW Admissions for autumn quarter and also submit the HIHIM application to the department. Current UW students submit the HIHIM application to the department. Returning UW students (one or more quarters of non-enrollment) submit the returning student application to the UW Registrar's Office and the HIHIM application to the department. Acceptance to the two-year schedule is competitive. Minimum 90 earned UW or transferable credits Grades Minimum cumulative 2.50 overall GPA Minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA in courses required for admission Minimum 2.0 grade in each course required for admission Regular Admission Application for regular admission submitted mid-January to May 1 Priority given to applicants with all courses completed at time of application: Introductory statistics: see department website for list of approved courses Human anatomy and physiology (laboratory preferred): see department website for list of approved courses Minimum 90 transfer or UW credits completed at time of application Transfer applicants apply to UW Admissions for autumn quarter and also submit the HIHIM application to the department. Current UW students submit the HIHIM application to the department. Returning UW students (one or more quarters of non-enrollment) submit the returning student application to the UW Registrar's Office and the HIHIM application to the department. Acceptance to the two-year or three-year schedule is competitive. Minimum 90 earned UW or transferable credits Grades Minimum cumulative 2.50 overall GPA Minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA in courses required for admission Minimum 2.0 grade in each course required for admission Continuation Policy All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in probation, which can lead to dismissal from the major. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website. Bachelor of Science in Health Informatics and Health Information Management Credential Overview The UW Bachelor of Science in Health Informatics and Health Information Management program is designed to help you develop the knowledge and skills needed to govern and manage data and administer information technology systems in health care settings. Our multidisciplinary curriculum combines, management, IT, informatics, finance, law, medicine and health sciences – positioning you for a range of career possibilities. HIHIM graduates work in areas such as medical records administration, data analysis and informatics, coding and billing, and regulatory compliance. HIHIM is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM), offered by the UW Dept. of Health Services in the SPH. HIHIM undergraduates are eligible to take the AHIMA national certifying exam, to become a registered health information administrator. RHIA certification is an industry-recognized credential and a proof of expertise in the field. Completion Requirements 78 credits HIHIM 400, HIHIM 405, HIHIM 408, HIHIM 409, HIHIM 410, HIHIM 411, HIHIM 414, HIHIM 415, HIHIM 420, HIHIM 421, HIHIM 425, HIHIM 450, HIHIM 454, HIHIM 455, HIHIM 456, HIHIM 460, HIHIM 461, HIHIM 462, HIHIM 470, HIHIM 480 Minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA and minimum 2.0 grade in all courses applied to the major In addition to major requirements shown above, students complete the general education requirements for the School of Public Health. For additional information on application and program completion requirements, visit the Health Informatics and Health Information Management program website. Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: The bachelor's degree program is designed to prepare individuals for careers in the management and use of healthcare information, and prepares students for the Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA) national certifying examination of the American Health Information Management Association. The program gives students the tools to work in a wide variety of healthcare positions upon graduation, including health information management, health informatics with emphasis on electronic health records, healthcare quality improvement, decision support analysis, research, health insurance, and consulting. Graduates pass a national credential examination, with a majority working within the health information management field. Instructional and Research Facilities: None Honors Options Available: None Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Students complete two internships, one of which is the capstone project. Department Scholarships: None Student Organizations/Associations: Students are invited to join the health information management professional association at reduced rates. Back to Top Program of Study: Major: Public Health-Global Health Program Overview Public Health is a school-wide liberal arts major, leading to a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science, which uses public health questions, concepts, and tools to help students develop competencies in assessment and measurement, communication, environment, ethics and social justice, natural science, population health, policy and politics, and social science with particular emphasis on collaboration and critical thinking across these domains. Graduates move on to a range of career and educational options in business, economics, education, health sciences, law, public health, and social and behavioral sciences. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Education and Promotion Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Nutritional Sciences Recommended Preparation Suggested First- and Second-Year Courses: anthropology, political science, psychology, sociology; distribution of general education and Areas of Knowledge courses as well as coursework that develops critical and analytical thinking, communication skills, and an understanding of public health. Admission Requirements Admission is capacity-constrained. Completing the prerequisites and submitting an application guarantees consideration but not admission. Admission is twice a year, for autumn and winter quarters. Applications, due the first Friday of spring for autumn admission and the third Friday of autumn for winter admission, are available from the public health-global health major website. Transfer students must also apply for admission to the UW (for admission process and deadlines, refer to the UW Office of Admissions website). Evaluation of applications is based on overall academic record, grades in major relevant coursework, selection of and preparation for appropriate BA or BS path, ability to make satisfactory progress toward the degree, and understanding of and potential fit with the major as demonstrated in the personal statement. Applicants are strongly encouraged to attend an information session before submitting an application. Transfer students may use any transferable equivalent course(s) for prerequisite coursework. Consult the UW Equivalency Guide or a UW adviser to verify transferability of coursework. Early Admission Students apply to the early admission option during spring of their first year for entry in autumn of their second year or during autumn of their second year for entry in winter of their second year. Applicants must complete the following by the application deadline: Minimum 30 college credits Minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA Minimum 2.0 in English composition (5 credits) Minimum 3.0 grade in one introductory public health course from the following: ENV H 111, ENV H 205, EPI 201, EPI 220, G H 101, HSERV 100, NUTR 200, PHG 200 (HSERV 100 required for BA Education and Promotion Option; NUTR 200 required for BS Nutritional Sciences Option) Minimum 3.0 grade in one introductory science from the following: BIOL 118, BIOL 180, CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145, or MICROM 301/MICROM 302 Upper-Division Admission Upper division admission is typical for most students either at the UW or transferring from other institutions. Applicants must complete the following by the application deadline: Minimum 60 college credits Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA Minimum 2.0 in English composition (5 credits) Minimum 2.5 grade in one introductory public health course from the following: ENV H 111, ENV H 205, EPI 201, EPI 220, G H 101, HSERV 100, NUTR 200, PHG 200, or one 5-credit course from Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), or Sociology (SOC) For BA path students, minimum 2.5 grade in one introductory science from the following: BIOL 118, BIOL 180, CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145, or MICROM 301/MICROM 302 For BS path students, minimum 2.5 grades in at least two courses of a year-long sequence in introductory science, with laboratories, or mathematics, chosen from biology (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220); chemistry (CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162); organic chemistry (CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 239; CHEM 241, CHEM 242); physics (PHYS 114/PHYS 117, PHYS 115/PHYS 118, PHYS 116/PHYS 119, or PHYS 121, PHYS 122, PHYS 123); or mathematics (MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126) Continuation Policy All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in probation, which can lead to dismissal from the major. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website. Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Credential Overview In the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Public Health, students learn to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. The major provides undergraduates with competencies in assessment and measurement, communication, environment, ethics and social justice, natural science, population health, policy and politics, and social science with particular emphasis on collaboration and critical thinking across these domains. Empowered with problem-solving skills, graduates use the degree as a foundation for a range of career and educational options in business, economics, education, health sciences, law, public health, and social and behavioral sciences. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 109-110 credits Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health Foundation (8-9 credits):statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or above Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302; 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Arts (BA) Selectives (20 credits): Courses identified to address competency areas in advocacy, community dynamics, communication, economics, education, ethics, health promotion, law, policy, social justice, and writing. See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the public health adviser. Public Health Electives (20 credits): 300- and 400-level courses to build competency areas in public health. See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the public health adviser. Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Education and Promotion Credential Overview In the PH Major, students learn to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. This broad liberal-arts degree uses public health questions, concepts, and tools to teach skills valuable for a range of career and educational options across multiple disciplines. The Education & Promotion Option will offer structure and direction for a student’s area of focus within this liberal-arts public health framework. In this option, students explore the development of individual, group, institutional, community and systemic strategies to improve health knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviors. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 109-110 credits HSERV 100 – Required for admission. (Counts toward the 20-credit selectives requirement shown in 7, below.) Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health Foundation (8-9 credits): statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or above Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302; 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Arts (BA) Selectives (20 credits): Courses identified to address competency areas in advocacy, community dynamics, communication, economics, education, ethics, health promotion, law, policy, social justice, and writing, including HSERV 100, HSERV 204. See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the public health adviser. Public Health Electives (20 credits): 300- and 400-level courses to build competency areas in public health, including HSERV 343, HSERV 344, HSERV 345, and SPH 495 PH internship. See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the public health adviser. Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major. Back to Top Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 109-110 credits GH 101 (admission requirement) Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health and Global Health Foundation (8-9 credits): statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG) Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or higher Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302, and 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Arts (BA) Selectives (20 credits): Courses identified to address competency areas in key domains. See website or adviser for approved list. Courses not on the list must be approved by the adviser. Public Health Electives (20 credits): 300- and 400-level courses to build competency areas in global health. Minimum 15 credits G H-prefix courses; all students required to take G H 305 (3 credits) and G H 401, G H 402 (3 credits each). See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the adviser. Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health Credential Overview In the Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in Public Health, students learn to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. The major provides undergraduates with competencies in assessment and measurement, communication, environment, ethics and social justice, natural science, population health, policy and politics, and social science with particular emphasis on collaboration and critical thinking across these domains. Empowered with problem-solving skills, graduates use the degree as a foundation for a range of career and educational options in business, economics, education, health sciences, law, public health, and social and behavioral sciences. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 119-130 credits Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health Foundation (8-9 credits): statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or above Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302; 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Science (BS) Selectives (40 credits): Students taking BIOL 180 and CHEM 142 may count these two courses toward both the Natural Science and the BS Selectives: Two year-long sequences of introductory science, with laboratories: biology (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220); chemistry (CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162); remaining credits chosen from biochemistry (BIOC 405, BIOC 406), organic chemistry (CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 239, CHEM 241 CHEM 242, or CHEM 223, CHEM 224); physics (PHYS 114/PHYS 117, PHYS 115/PHYS 118, PHYS 116/PHYS 119, or PHYS 121, PHYS 122, PHYS 123); or mathematics (MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126) Public Health Electives (20 credits): 300- and 400-level courses to build competency areas in public health. See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the public health adviser. Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Global Health Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 119-130 credits Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health Foundation (8-9 credits): statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or above Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302; 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Science (BS) Selectives (40 credits): Students taking BIOL 180 and CHEM 142 may count these two courses toward both the Natural Science and the BS Selectives: Two year-long sequences of introductory science, with laboratories: biology (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220); chemistry (CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162); remaining credits chosen from biochemistry (BIOC 405, BIOC 406), organic chemistry (CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 239, CHEM 241 CHEM 242, or CHEM 223, CHEM 224); physics (PHYS 114/PHYS 117, PHYS 115/PHYS 118, PHYS 116/PHYS 119, or PHYS 121, PHYS 122, PHYS 123); or mathematics (MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126) Public Health Electives (20 credits): 300- and 400-level courses to build competency areas in global health. Minimum 15 credits G H-prefix courses; all students required to take G H 305 (3 credits) and G H 401, G H 402 (3 credits each). See website or adviser for approved list. Any course not on the list must be approved by the adviser. Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Public Health-Global Health: Nutritional Sciences Credential Overview In the PH Major, students learn to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. This broad liberal- arts degree uses public health questions, concepts, and tools to teach skills valuable for a range of career and educational options across multiple disciplines. The Nutritional Sciences Option will offer structure and direction for a student’s area of focus within a liberal-arts public health framework. In this option, students will get a robust foundation in natural sciences along with their nutrition-focused public health fundamentals. Completion Requirements General Education Requirements Basic Skills English Composition (C) - 5 credits (minimum 2.0 grade) Additional Writing (W) - 10 credits Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) - One course (minimum 4 credits) Diversity (DIV) - 3 credits Areas of Knowledge Visual, Literary, & Performing Arts (VLPA) - 10 credits* Individuals & Societies (I&S) - 10 credits Natural World (NW) - 20 credits Additional Areas of Knowledge - 25 credits *Although School of Public Health students are not required to study a foreign language, they are encouraged to do so by substituting first-year language courses for the VLPA requirement. Completion through the third quarter is required for VLPA credit. Additional Completion Requirements Major Requirements 119-130 credits NUTR 200: Required for admission, but not counted toward the minimum 119-130 major credits required Integrated Core (20 credits): minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA with no grade below 1.7 in SPH 380, SPH 381, SPH 480, SPH 481 Public Health Foundation (8-9 credits): statistics (4-5 credits) from BIOST 310 (preferred), Q METH 201, STAT 220, STAT 221, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381; epidemiology (4 credits), EPI 320 Diversity Seminar (1 credit): SPH 489 Social and Behavioral Sciences Breadth (25 credits): one 5-credit course from each of the following departments: Anthropology (ANTH only), Geography (GEOG), Political Science (POL S), Psychology (PSYCH), and Sociology (SOC); minimum 20 credits at the 200 level or above Natural Science (10 credits): 5 credits from BIOL 118, BIOL 180, MICROM 301/MICROM 302; 5 credits from CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 145 Bachelor of Science (BS) Selectives (40 credits): Students taking BIOL 180 and CHEM 142 may count these two courses toward both the Natural Science and the BS Selectives: Two year-long sequences of introductory science with laboratories: biology (BIOL 180, BIOL 200, BIOL 220 and chemistry (CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162). Remaining credits chosen from biochemistry (BIOC 405, BIOC 406); organic chemistry (CHEM 237, CHEM 238, CHEM 239, CHEM 241, CHEM 242, or CHEM 223, CHEM 224 Public Health Electives (20 credits): At least 9 credits from NUTR 310, NUTR 405, NUTR 406, NUTR 411, NUTR 420 or NUTR 446; balance of 15 credits from NUTR 302, NUTR 303, NUTR 400 (max. 2), NUTR 412 or NUTR 465; and remaining 5 credits, if necessary, of 300- and 400-level courses from approved list Public Health Capstone (5 credits): One of the following options: (1) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 491 and SPH 492; (2) minimum 2.0 grade in SPH 496 Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major Back to Top Additional Information Student Outcomes and Opportunities Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Public Health is a school-wide liberal arts major, leading to a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science, which uses public health questions, concepts, and tools to teach critical thinking skills. Students learn to ask questions, challenge assumptions, and explore answers to promote the health and well-being of communities, locally, nationally, and globally. By integrating the diverse areas of public health, students are introduced to the determinants of health, emerging diseases, access to health care and modes of health-care delivery, the geography of health, and the effects of environment on health and disease. The major provides undergraduates with competencies in health, ethics and social justice, social science, natural science, policy and politics, and environment with particular emphasis on collaboration, communication, and critical thinking across these domains. An undergraduate degree in public health provides a grounding in science, values, passion, and commitment which is valuable for a range of career and educational options across multiple disciplines. Instructional and Research Facilities: The School of Public Health has five departments -- Biostatistics, Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, Epidemiology, Global Health, and Health Services -- as well as interdisciplinary programs such as the Public Health major, Maternal and Child Health, Nutritional Sciences, Pathobiology, and Public Health Genetics. The School has over 30 research centers, including Institute for Public Health Genetics, Northwest Center for Public Health Practice, Center for Public Health Nutrition, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, and the Health Promotion Research Center. Administration and teaching are primarily in the Magnuson Health Sciences Center. Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements. Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Majors are encouraged to engage in experiential learning. See adviser for details. Department Scholarships: See adviser for details. Student Organizations/Associations: Undergraduate Student Public Health Association (USPHA). Public Health Dawgs (PhDs). Back to Top Program of Study: Minor: Nutritional Sciences Program Overview The Nutrition minor provides students with a foundation of knowledge in nutritional sciences, food systems, food studies, and population health. Through an examination of food and nutrition policies and practices that affect sustainable diets and long-term health, students will gain a multidisciplinary perspective of the food environment, including the interplay of food and nutrition, human behavior, business, culture, and the environment. This program of study leads to the following credential: Minor in Nutrition Minor in Nutrition Credential Overview The Nutrition Minor provides students with a foundation of knowledge in nutritional sciences, food studies, food systems, and population health. Students examine food and nutrition practices and policies that affect sustainable diets and long-term health. The minor offers a multidisciplinary perspective of the food environment, including the interplay of food and nutrition, human behavior, business, culture, and the environment. Completion Requirements 25 credits Core (5 credits): NUTR 200, NUTR 400 Electives (20 credits): selected from an approved list. See department website for approved list. Minimum 13 credits from School of Public Health Minimum 15 credits upper-division courses Minimum 15 credits outside student's major requirements Minimum 15 credits in residence through the UW Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied toward the minor Back to Top Graduate Programs School of Public Health Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Nutritional Sciences) Program Overview The doctoral program in Nutritional Sciences offers interdisciplinary training to prepare students to meet the needs for expanding the base of new knowledge in nutritional sciences and to apply this knowledge in public health and clinical health care settings. The PhD program is designed to assist students in gaining an advanced understanding of nutrition and metabolism, and of related biological, biochemical, molecular, and behavioral sciences, in acquiring skills in research methods, and in developing timely and original hypotheses in nutritional sciences. This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Nutritional Sciences) Admission Requirements Note: this program is currently only accepting applications from students currently enrolled in the Nutritional Sciences master's programs. Doctor Of Philosophy (Nutritional Sciences) Completion Requirements 103 credits Nutritional Sciences Core (31 credits): NUTR 500, NUTR 512, NUTR 513, NUTR 514, NUTR 520, NUTR 521, NUTR 526, NUTR 531 (6 credits), NUTR 562 Additional Nutrition (2 credits): Additional credits from NUTR 500+ courses Epidemiology (4-8 credits): EPI 511 OR EPI 512 AND EPI 513 Biostatistics (8 credits): Select from among courses numbered 500 and above within BIOST prefix. Research Methods (8 credits): Select from among 500 and above Research Methods courses within EPI: Course list maintained internally by the program. Public Health Core (1 credit): HSERV 579 Other Sciences (22 credits): Select from among 400 and 500 and above science courses within BIOC, BIOL, BIOST, GENOME, EPI, G H, HSERV, HUBIO, IMMUN, MICROM, NUTR, and PATH to address specific interests. Other courses as approved by adviser. Dissertation (27 credits): NUTR 800 Successful completion of the Nutritional Sciences Portfolio, completion to be verified by adviser Successful completion of Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics requirements as applicable, completion to be verified by adviser Teaching Experience, as Teaching Assistant or otherwise, completion to be verified by adviser Back to Top Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Health Genetics) This program of study leads to the following credential: Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Health Genetics) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Health Genetics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Advanced Clinical Research Methods This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Advanced Clinical Research Methods Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Advanced Clinical Research Methods Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Basic Clinical Research Methods This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Basic Clinical Research Methods Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Basic Clinical Research Methods Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Biobehavioral Cancer Prevention And Control This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Biobehavioral Cancer Prevention And Control Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Biobehavioral Cancer Prevention And Control Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Health Management This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Health Management Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Health Management Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Public Health This program of study leads to the following credentials: Graduate Certificate In Public Health ( Global Injury And Violence Prevention) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Climate And Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Emergency Preparedness And Response) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Global Health Of Women, Adolecents, And Children) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Behavior And Health Promotion) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Policy) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (HIV And Sexually Transmitted Infections) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (International Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Maternal And Child Health) Graduate Certificate In Public Health (One Health) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Public Health ( Global Injury And Violence Prevention) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Climate And Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Emergency Preparedness And Response) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Global Health Of Women, Adolecents, And Children) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Behavior And Health Promotion) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Health Policy) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (HIV And Sexually Transmitted Infections) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (International Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (Maternal And Child Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Graduate Certificate In Public Health (One Health) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Public Health This program of study leads to the following credential: Graduate Certificate In Public Health Practice Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Graduate Certificate In Public Health Practice Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Health Administration This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Health Administration This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Health Administration (fee-based) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management (Advanced Standing) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Master Of Health Informatics And Health Information Management (Advanced Standing) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) Program Overview The Master of Public Health in Nutritional Sciences provides interdisciplinary training with a strong grounding in research and evidence-based nutritional sciences and public health. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Capstone option) Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Thesis option) Admission Requirements All applicants to an NSP graduate program must meet the following minimum requirements: Bachelor's degree or higher in any discipline. Most applicants to the PhD program hold a master's degree in nutrition or a related discipline. Completion of prerequisite coursework: nutrition (completed at time of application), general chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry (two quarters or 1 semester), physiology A cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater for the final 90 quarter credits or 60 semester hours completed is an expectation for the UW Graduate School. Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 may still be considered if their overall application has exceptional strengths. Financial ability requirements for international student English Language Proficiency for Non-native English speakers. Financial ability requirements for international student Additional requirements for the GCPD program: Prerequisite courses - psychology, microbiology, food science (with laboratory), management of nutrition services; National Background Check; and ServSafe Manager Certificate. For GCPD prerequisites, appropriate professional use of each course may suffice as meeting the requirement. Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Capstone option) Completion Requirements 64-67 credits, depending on option MPH Common Core (23 credits): PHI 511, PHI 512, PHI 513, PHI 514, PHI 515, PHI 516 Nutritional Sciences Core (22 credits): NUTR 500, NUTR 512, NUTR 513, NUTR 520, NUTR 521, NUTR 526, NUTR 562, Additional MPH (credits vary depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Culminating Project (credits vary depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements: Additional MPH (7 credits): NUTR 532 (1 credit), NUTR 595 (6 credits) Electives (5 credits): Select from courses numbered 500 and above within School of Public Health prefixes: BIOST, ENV H, EPI, G H, HIHIM, HSERV, HSMGMT, NUTR, PABIO, PHG, SPH. Culminating Project (4 credits): NUTR 596 Practice Capstone Back to Top Master Of Public Health (Public Health Nutrition) (Thesis option) Completion Requirements 64-67 credits, depending on option MPH Common Core (23 credits): PHI 511, PHI 512, PHI 513, PHI 514, PHI 515, PHI 516 Nutritional Sciences Core (22 credits): NUTR 500, NUTR 512, NUTR 513, NUTR 520, NUTR 521, NUTR 526, NUTR 562, Additional MPH (credits vary depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Culminating Project (credits vary depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements: Additional MPH (13 credits): NUTR 532 (1 credit), NUTR 595 (6 credits), NUTR 531 (6 credits) Culminating Project (9 credits): NUTR 700 Master's Thesis Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) Program Overview The Master of Science in Nutritional Sciences provides students with advanced understanding of human nutrition through a curriculum that includes skills with application in both research and community settings. This program of study leads to the following credentials: Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Capstone option) Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Thesis option) Admission Requirements All applicants to an NSP graduate program must meet the following minimum requirements: Bachelor's degree or higher in any discipline. Most applicants to the PhD program hold a master's degree in nutrition or a related discipline. Completion of prerequisite coursework: nutrition (completed at time of application), general chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry (two quarters or 1 semester), physiology A cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater for the final 90 quarter credits or 60 semester hours completed is an expectation for the UW Graduate School. Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 may still be considered if their overall application has exceptional strengths. Financial ability requirements for international student English Language Proficiency for Non-native English speakers. Financial ability requirements for international student Additional requirements for the GCPD program: Prerequisite courses - psychology, microbiology, food science (with laboratory), management of nutrition services; National Background Check; and ServSafe Manager Certificate. For GCPD prerequisites, appropriate professional use of each course may suffice as meeting the requirement. Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Capstone option) Completion Requirements 46-54 credits, depending on option Public Health Core (9 credits): BIOST 511, EPI 511, HSERV 579 Nutritional Sciences Core (22 credits): NUTR 500, NUTR 512, NUTR 513, NUTR 520, NUTR 521, NUTR 526, NUTR 562 Additional MS Coursework (credit total varies depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Electives (5 credits): Select from courses numbered 500 and above within School of Public Health prefixes: BIOST, ENV H, EPI, G H, HIHIM, HSERV, HSMGMT, NUTR, PABIO, PHG, SPH. Culminating Project (credit total varies depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements Additional MS Coursework (6 credits): NUTR 514, NUTR 531 (3 credits) Culminating Project (4 credits): NUTR 596 Practice Capstone Back to Top Master Of Science (Nutritional Sciences) (Thesis option) Completion Requirements 46-54 credits, depending on option Public Health Core (9 credits): BIOST 511, EPI 511, HSERV 579 Nutritional Sciences Core (22 credits): NUTR 500, NUTR 512, NUTR 513, NUTR 520, NUTR 521, NUTR 526, NUTR 562 Additional MS Coursework (credit total varies depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Electives (5 credits): Select from courses numbered 500 and above within School of Public Health prefixes: BIOST, ENV H, EPI, G H, HIHIM, HSERV, HSMGMT, NUTR, PABIO, PHG, SPH. Culminating Project (credit total varies depending on option): See additional requirements below for option-specific requirements. Additional Completion Requirements Option-specific requirements Additional MS Coursework (9 credits): NUTR 514, NUTR 531 (6 credits) Culminating Project (9 credits): NUTR 700 Master's Thesis Back to Top Program of Study: Master Of Science (Public Health Genetics) This program of study leads to the following credential: Master Of Science (Public Health Genetics) Admission Requirements Contact department for requirements. Master Of Science (Public Health Genetics) Completion Requirements Contact department for requirements. Back to Top University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © University of Washington | Seattle, WA