Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Mechanical Engineering MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Mechanical Engineering MS Apply Request More Info Mechanical Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Mechanical Engineering Master of Science Master the mechanics of artificial and natural engineering processes, and learn to guide a product from an idea to the marketplace in the Mechanical Engineering Master of Science in the College of Engineering. Gain an advanced understanding of engineering concepts from mechanics to alternative and renewable energy to materials engineering. You’ll also develop a working knowledge of materials and technology used in mechanical engineering. The Department of Mechanical Engineering is small, offering you a concentrated master’s program in an intimate environment that fosters interaction with faculty with expertise in biomedical engineering, material science and engineering, mechanics, robotics, and other areas. Work closely with a faculty advisor who will help you chart a course for your studies to achieve your academic and professional goals. You’ll also graduate with the professional preparation and leadership abilities to become more competitive in the marketplace and move your career to the next level. The Mechanical Engineering master’s degree is aimed at students with undergraduate degrees in the field who want to pursue careers in industrial research and development. Credit Requirements The Mechanical Engineering MS requires a minimum of 30 credit hours. Classes & Curriculum The flexible program allows you to choose to study on a part- or full-time basis. Courses are offered in the evening to accommodate the schedules of working professionals. Take a look at the full list of required and elective courses. Choose to complete your degree with a thesis, project or advanced coursework. You’ll choose one of three tracks. Thesis 24 credits of course work six credits of thesis work Project 27 credits of didactic course work three credits of project work Course work 30 credits of didactic course work Student Diversity The College of Engineering reflects the diversity that has always been a hallmark of life at Temple. With students from all 50 states, 129 countries and with cultural backgrounds of all kinds, Temple’s classrooms are enriched with countless perspectives, giving students a global point of view across disciplines and fields, and strengthening bonds that encourage success among students. As a community, Temple’s shared responsibility is to enhance the quality of life for all members of the Temple community, providing a safe, supportive and welcoming environment in which to learn, work and grow. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Related Graduate Degrees Mechanical Engineering PhD Our Advisors A faculty advisor will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate student advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. EN-ME-MSME Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Mechanical Engineering MS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Labs & Research Our Faculty Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info