Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Robsham Theater Menu Main Nav Robsham Theater Arts Center Robsham Box Office Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Venues Overview Robsham Main Stage Bonn Studio Theater Brighton Dance Studios 300 Hammond Pond Parkway Robsham Box Office Robsham Box Office Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Visitor Information Home About Visitor Information About Meet Our Staff Visitor Information Student Employment Below are some frequently asked questions related to the visitor experience at the Robsham Theater Arts Center. If you have a question that is not included, please contact us via email or phone: (617) 552-4800. Open All Close All How do I get to the Robsham Arts Theater Center venues? The Robsham Main Stage and The Bonn Studio Theater are part of the Robsham Theater Arts Center and are located on Boston College's Chestnut Hill Campus (located at 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA), specifically in the "lower campus" section. Please click here for a Chestnut Hill Campus map that will lead you to the Robsham Theater Arts Center. We recommend patrons visiting the Robsham Theater Arts Center park in the Commonwealth Avenue Garage, which is just a short walk from the Robsham Theater Arts Center. Both can be found in section D2 of the Chestnut Hill Campus map. The Venues at 300 Hammond Pond Parkway (300 HPP) are a six-minute drive from Boston College's Chestnut Hill Campus. On evenings and weekends (when there isn’t a BC Football game), 300 HPP can fit roughly 250 vehicles (closer to 300 if you use the grass). For weekdays during standard business hours, 300 HPP can fit 80-100 vehicles. Additional transportation to the venues (by buses or vans from the Chestnut Hill Campus) will be arranged on a case-by-case basis by Boston College. The Brighton Dance Studios (BDS) are located on Boston College’s Brighton Campus (located at 2115 Commonwealth Avenue, Brighton, MA), less than a 10-minute walk from the Robsham Theater Arts Center. The Brighton Dance Studios can be found in section C3 of the Brighton Campus map. Where can I park? For more information regarding visitor parking at the Robsham Theater or the Bonn Studio, please visit the BC Transportation Office website. There is a surface parking lot onsite at 300 Hammond Pond Parkway for events. How do I reserve space in the theater? Please fill out our RTAC Scheduling Request Form. How do I buy tickets? There are three ways to obtain tickets: 1. Buy Tickets Online 2. Visit Our Box Office Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. (Box Office hours are subject to change) There are additional hours during production weekends, usually 1.5 hours before each performance. 3. Call Our Box Office at (617) 552-4002 How do I get the RTAC Box Office to sell tickets for my event? Simply fill out this RTAC Ticket Request Form. What are the Box Office hours? The Box Office is open 10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday (hours are subject to change). The Box Office will also be open 1.5 hours before a production. What are the upcoming events in the Robsham Theater Arts Center? For a full calendar of events, visit the Box Office website at www.bc.edu/tickets. Are the venues equipped with hearing assistance? The Robsham Theater Arts Center is equipped with an FM hearing enhancement system. Headsets are available free of charge at the Box Office. Are the venues wheelchair accessible? Yes, all Robsham Theater Arts Center venues including the Robsham Main Stage, the Bonn Studio Theater, the Brighton Dance Studios, and the 300 Hammond Pond Parkway venues are ramp accessible and can accommodate both wheelchair and companion seating. What is the inclement weather cancellation policy? In the event of inclement weather, Boston College events will be held as scheduled unless the Boston College Campus is closed. To find out more information regarding the status of the campus, please visit www.bc.edu or call 617-552-4636. What if I arrive late? We make every effort to begin our performances on time. In consideration of all participants, latecomers will be seated at the discretion of the management. Latecomers may not be seated in their assigned seats until intermission. Is there a lost & found? If you've lost your student ID, please go to Student Services in Lyons Hall. If you've lost any other item, go to Boston College Police Department on the ground floor in Maloney Hall. Back To Top Back To Top Robsham Theater Arts Center Boston College 617-552-4800 About Venues Box Office Connect with us Facebook Twitter Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College