Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar Academic Records Enrollment/Degree Verifications Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. Enrollment/Degree Verifications Proof of Enrollment and/or Degree Verification Brown University has authorized the National Student Clearinghouse to act as its agent for verifications of student enrollment and Degree Verification. Currently enrolled students, regardless of citizenship, who wish to request an official certification of enrollment (e.g., for purposes of loan deferments, health insurance coverage, government documents, etc.) may do so 24 x 7 and free of charge by logging into the National Student Clearinghouse's Student Self-Service via https://secure.studentclearinghouse.org/and selecting Brown University from the dropdown. The certificate provided may be printed or downloaded and sent to any third party. This Service is not available to students who have graduated in May 2012 or earlier. For students that require specific third-party forms that must be completed by the Office of the Registrar (e.g. Canadian Tax Forms, etc.) may do so by visiting Room 318, Page-Robinson Hall and complete an verification request form. Certifications of enrollment requested in this manner are also free of charge but take longer to process. In most cases, students should allow 3-5 business days for these requests. For outside agencies/third-parties seeking verification of a student's enrollment and/or degree MUST visit the National Student Clearinghouse as the Office of the Registrar will not verify this information directly over the phone or via e-mail. Accordingly, please visit www.studentclearinghouse.org Note: Undergraduate students who study away during their careers at Brown need to have their visiting institution certify their enrollment status. In addition, the Office of the Registrar's is unable to certify a student's summer address. Academic Calendar Academic Records Diplomas Transcript Requests Academic Transcript Legend Transcript Ordering FAQs Enrollment/Degree Verifications Estimated Date of Completion (EDOC) Post-Commencement Changes to Records Brown University FERPA Policy University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies