Skip to main content Skip to main content DIVISION of ENROLLMENT SERVICES Skip to main content &nbsp;<b>Student Quicklinks</b> Student Quicklinks &nbsp;<b>Faculty/Staff Quicklinks</b> Faculty/Staff Quicklinks Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Financial Aid The Financial Aid Process The Financial Aid Process Texas Residency Rules for State Aid Dates & Deadlines Texas Application for State Financial Aid (TASFA) Financial Aid Status Disbursement of Aid Appeals Due to Special Circumstances Helpful hints for completing the FAFSA and CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE Verification Process Are you Dependent or Independent? How to Accept/Decline Financial Aid Refunds Costs Types of Aid Types of Aid Scholarships Loans Grants Student Employment Graduate Financial Aid Federal Government Funded Financial Aid Programs SMU Funded Financial Aid Programs Summer and May Inter-Term Financial Aid Options for Undergraduate Students Veteran Benefits How Enrollment Level Affects Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Process Forms Library Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us ☰ SMU Enrollment Services Financial Aid I want information about... The application process Undergraduate financial aid Graduate financial aid My current financial aid status Summer school financial aid Enrollment requirements for aid Scholarship sources Grants My aid disbursement Federal work-study Satisfactory academic progress Withdrawing from the university Search Financial Aid Mission Statement The Financial Aid Office at Southern Methodist University is committed to serving students by providing information to secure the necessary financial resources to meet their educational goals and financial obligations to the university. Our financial aid advisors offer personal attention to help explore a multitude of available scholarships, grants, loans, and payment plans. The goal of the financial aid program at SMU is to provide financial assistance to students who would not be able to attend college without aid. The university expects that students and parents will contribute to the fullest extent of their ability from income and assets. When considering ways to fund their college education, students should explore all possibilities and adhere to application deadlines. It is the responsibility of the student to complete their Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and the CSS/Profile in a timely manner. Announcements Financial Aid Notifications for the 2022-2023 academic year New incoming & transfer undergraduate students: Began January, 2022 and continues on a daily basis. New incoming graduate students: Begins in April 2022 and continues on a daily basis. Actual start date for awarding varies based on your academic program. Returning/Continuing student (Undergraduate & Graduate) Begins in late June 2022 after spring term grades are posted. Undergraduate Housing Exemptions: If you plan to request or have already been approved for an exemption from On-Campus housing, your financial aid package may change. Please see the FAQ's page Housing and Dining section. Graduate Student Scholarships, Stipends, and Assistantships are authorized by the Academic Department and submitted to the Office of Financial Aid to be incorporated as part of the total financial aid package. If you are expecting to receive a graduate scholarship, fellowship, or assistantship but do not see it when you receive your financial aid offer, please contact your academic department immediately for additional information. Undergraduate Institutional Merit scholarships are authorized, primarily, through the Admissions cycle or by the academic department for the declared major. Eligibility is determined through the Admission process and final list of recipients is submitted to the Office of Financial Aid. The scholarship will be included as part of the total financial aid offer. Requirements for renewing the scholarship varies based on the type of scholarship. Current scholarship recipients are evaluated annually at the end of the Spring term for renewability. Please review your My.SMU Student Dashboard regularly for any outstanding requests or updates to your financial aid information. You will receive a notification via SMU email of any updates or changes to your financial aid package. Billing and payment information, including payment due dates, can be found on the University Bursar's website. Advisors Location: Blanton Building, Suite 119 Hours: 9am–4pm M–F Click on your advisors name below if you wish to send a direct email. If you wish to schedule a call back time or set up a virtual appointment, click here Undergraduate Advisors Phone: 214-768-3417 Fax: 214-768-3878 First Initial of Your Last Name Advisor D,E, F, G, H, M, O, Q, U, X, Y, Z Penny Griffin B, C, K, L, N, R, S, T, W, Veterans Gordon Brannon A,I, J, P Briana Palacio V Dean Malabanan Graduate Advisors Financial Aid Advising for Advisor Simmons -Dispute Resolution and Counseling Programs, Data Science, Meadows Arts Ashley Griffin-Ruiz 214-768- 2371 Cox Business, Lyle Engineering, SMU Guildhall Scott McCown 214-768-6027 Dedman- Humanities and Sciences, Dedman Law, Perkins Theology Simmons- Education, Health Promotion, Sports Medicine Shaun Walker 214-768-3348 Financial Aid Cost of Attendance The Financial Aid Process Forms HEERF Reporting Financial Aid Glossary Frequently Asked Questions Meet your Financial Aid Advisor Contact Us Types of Aid SMU Net Price Calculator Right to Know We welcome your feedback! Click here to take our customer satisfaction survey. You can also respond by scanning the QR code with any mobile device Student Services Quicklinks× Faculty/Staff Quicklinks× Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share