Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu College of Health Sciences About Undergraduate Graduate Certificates & Continuing Ed Students Research Centers & Institutes News & Events Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Undergraduate Dietetics AboutAdmissionsMissionCurriculumResourcesFAQ Exercise, Sport & Movement Sciences Health Sciences Healthcare Leadership Physical Education Teacher Education Sport Coaching Medical Assisting (Minor) Nutrition, Health & Wellness (Minor) Accelerated BS to MS Physical Education (PHED) Activity Courses Take Action Find a Program that Drives You Meet our Faculty Schedule an Advising Appointment Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedn Home College of Health Sciences Undergraduate Medical Assisting Minor Courses Medical Assisting (Academic Minor) Course Requirements The following courses are required to obtain the minor in Medical Assisting: BIOL 2010/2011 (4) Detailed study of structure and functions of human organism; credit not acceptable for Biology major or minor. Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to help students develop a working knowledge of anatomy and physiology. Topics covered are anatomical terminology, genetics, and the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems. BIOL 2020/2021 (4) Continuation of BIOL 2010. Laboratory observations, demonstrations and experiments designed to help students develop a working knowledge of anatomy and physiology. Topics covered are the special senses, and the circulatory, cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, and reproductive systems. Prerequisite/s: BIOL 2010/2011 HMSE 2000 (2) Foundations of medical language with specific emphasis on terminology and nomenclature for health and sport sciences. HLSC 3000 (3) Introduction to medical assisting and medical office management within the healthcare team. Topics such as legal and ethical considerations affecting the medical assistant, safety, medical emergencies, basic pharmacology, nutritional requirements, and rehabilitation procedures will be explored. Prerequisite/s: BIOL 2010/2011, BIOL2020/2021, HMSE 2000 *Note: This course may be substituted if the student completes ESMS 4903 during spring 2019 HLSC 3001 (4) Instruction in basic laboratory techniques and clinical exam room procedures used by the medical assistant. Topics include vital signs, EKGs, preparing and administering medications, collecting and processing specimens, phlebotomy, and related tasks. Prerequisite/s: BIOL 2010/2011, BIOL2020/2021, HMSE 2000 *Note: This course may be substituted if the student completes ESMS 4904 during spring 2019 HLSC 3002 (3) Concepts of Medical Assistant-patient interactions through written, verbal and electronic forms of communication. Students will explore topics such as active listening, nonverbal communication, therapeutic communication, fundamental writing skills, proper telephone etiquette and related tasks. Prerequisite/s: BIOL 2010/2011, BIOL2020/2021, HMSE 2000 HLSC 3003 (3) Introduction to medical office administration responsibilities for Medical Assistants. Topics such as medical coding and billing, health insurance, medical record management, and patient scheduling will be covered. Prerequisite/s: BIOL 2010/2011, BIOL2020/2021, HMSE 2000 HLSC 3004 (1) A review of concepts for students preparing to take the Medical Assisting certification examination. Prerequisites: BIOL 2010/2011, BIOL2020/202, HMSE 2000, HLSC 3000, HLSC 3001, HLSC 3002, HLSC 3003 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 9/21/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.