Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Economics Menu Search TTU Department of Economics Department of Economics Pandemic Related Information Vaccinations: Texas Tech University strongly recommends students adhere to CDC guidelines on COVID-19, including obtaining COVID-19 vaccinations. If you were unable to obtain a vaccination prior to your arrival on campus, the COVID-19 vaccine is available at Student Health Services by appointment. You can find additional information about the vaccine here https://www.ttu.edu/commitment/covid-19-vaccine/index.php and about the recently announced incentive program here https://www.depts.ttu.edu/communications/emergency/coronavirus/vaccination-incentives/index.php Face Covering Policy: As of May 19, 2021, face coverings are optional in TTU facilities and classrooms but, based on CDC guidelines, are recommended and welcome, especially for those who have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or who may have susceptibilities to the virus. Face coverings are required in public transportation (e.g., Citibus) and in the Student Health Clinic. The wearing of masks while in public indoor settings and frequently washing your hands has proven to be effective at preventing the spread of COVID-19. Potential Changes: The University will continue to monitor CDC, State, and TTU System guidelines in continuing to manage the campus implications of COVID-19. Any changes affecting class policies or delivery modality will be in accordance with those guidelines and announced as soon as possible. If Texas Tech University campus operations are required to change because of health concerns related to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible that this course will move to a fully online delivery format. Should that be necessary, students will be advised of technical and equipment requirements, such as web cam, microphone, and remote proctoring software. The CDC recommends that both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals wear a face mask indoors after a known exposure. Prior to arrival on campus, all unvaccinated students in university housing should develop an action plan in the event they are required to self-isolate or quarantine due to a positive COVID- 19 diagnosis or exposure. This plan should include a location to complete the self- isolation/quarantine period, access to groceries/meal delivery, access to necessary medications, numbers of emergency contacts, and contact information for their preferred healthcare provider. Fully vaccinated students (including those with medical or religious exemptions) who aren't experiencing symptoms will not be required to quarantine following an exposure to a COVID-19 positive person, including roommates. Following a known exposure, students should monitor for symptoms over the course of 14 days and quarantine if symptoms develop. Fully vaccinated students who receive a positive diagnosis for COVID-19 will be required to self- isolate. Students that are vaccinated, including those with medical and religious exemptions, and live in university housing will be provided with a location to complete the self-isolation period. If an off-campus location is necessary, the university will cover the associated housing expenses. Unvaccinated or undisclosed students who have been identified as having a known exposure toa COVID-19 positive person will be required to quarantine for a minimum of 7 days or longer depending upon testing. If a student is unvaccinated and can prove a COVID-19 diagnosis and recovery in the last three months, quarantine will not be required. Unvaccinated or undisclosed students who receive a positive diagnosis for COVID-19 will be required to self-isolate. The university will offer information regarding off-campus options for unvaccinated students that reside in university housing to complete the self-isolation period but will not cover any associated expenses. Any student who has a laboratory confirmed case of COVID-19 must use this link to report https://ttucovid19.ttu.edu/User/Consent Students who have a high-risk exposure to someone with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 in the last 2 weeks should access the online reporting platform to take a “quick assessment” or “full self-screening.” Based on responses, automated messages provide contact information for campus/clinic resources, emergency room precautions, or planning observation. Students who are fully vaccinated and want to participate in the vaccination incentive opportunity may submit their vaccination record to Student Health Services using the Submit Vaccination Record button at https://www.depts.ttu.edu/communications/emergency/coronavirus/. About the Department The Department of Economics at Texas Tech is committed to rigorous theoretical and quantitative analysis in teaching and research. The Department of Economics offers programs that lead to a Bachelor of Arts in Economics, a Bachelor of Science in Economics, a Bachelor of Science in International Economics, a Master of Arts in Economics, and a Ph.D. in Economics. Department News and Announcements TBA Seminar Series DATE TITLE NAME TBA Sunday, October 14th, 2018 4th Annual Staff and Faculty Get-together Congratulations to Economics majors Jessica Rachel Glockner and Noah Christopher McCullough for being named to the College of Arts and Sciences list of highest ranking Spring 2015 graduates. Nobel Laureate, Professor Paul Krugman gives public Lecture The theme of his talk was "that old-fashioned macro, including of course the liquidity trap, has done remarkably well in this crisis. Unfortunately, half the macroeconomics profession forgot all that, and most policy makers chose to ignore it in practice. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Department of Economics Address Texas Tech University, Department Of Economics P.O. Box 41014, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2201 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityAug 16, 2021 3:08 PM Department of Economics About Department of Economics About Back Department Overview Chair's Welcome Strategic Plan Programs Department of Economics Programs Back Undergraduate Programs Department of Economics Programs Undergraduate Programs Back Undergraduate Programs B.S. in Economics B.A. in Economics B.S. in International Economics Minor in Economics Undergraduate Advising Graduate Programs Department of Economics Programs Graduate Programs Back Graduate Programs M.A. in Economics Ph.D. in Economics PhD Job Placements Graduate Scholarships Faculty and Staff Department of Economics Faculty and Staff Back Faculty & Staff Instructors Teaching Assistants Course Offerings Contact Info Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index