Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Give to Brown Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Life at Brown Brown students, faculty and staff live active, engaged lives of teaching, learning and making an impact within a diverse and supportive community. Sub Navigation In This Section Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events Life at Brown Brown students, faculty and staff live active, engaged lives of teaching, learning and making an impact within a diverse and supportive community. Brown's mission to advance knowledge and discovery benefits from the presence of an intellectually stimulating mix of voices and ideas. We are a teaching and learning community grounded in a respect for the views of others, even and especially when we disagree. That mix of perspectives and commitment to respect — coupled with the innovative, dynamic spirit of the University's distinctive Open Curriculum — infuse life at Brown in settings that range from academic to residential to social. Members of the Brown community collaborate on pioneering research, innovative startups, artistic performance and social actions. They travel abroad and partner with community organizations to find solutions to pressing local, national and international issues. They get excited about brain science, applied economics and Russian literature. We are a community that celebrates deep intellectual curiosity, creativity and individuality. And Brown has long enjoyed a reputation for students who are at the same time happy and fulfilled. Life on College Hill Brown is a vibrant place to live, work and study in a city rich in cultural diversity. Housing and Dining Community Living in Providence Scene at Brown Members of the Brown community are, by nature, curious and engaged. Active involvement outside of classrooms, laboratories and offices is central to Brown’s culture. 1 of 5 More than 900 student-athletes compete on 38 varsity sports teams, and Brown teams routinely are among the nation's leaders in NCAA honors for academic achievement. 2 of 5 At Brown, the brightest and most exceptional students and scholars from across the globe challenge and support each other within a respectful and diverse campus community. 3 of 5 Brown students regularly collaborate with faculty on everything from pioneering research and socially engaged scholarship to innovative startups and artistic performance. 4 of 5 On College Hill, students, faculty and staff find boundless opportunities for teaching, research, art-making, performance and experimentation, both inside the classroom and beyond. 5 of 5 Brown is located within the heart of Rhode Island’s vibrant capital city, known for its restaurants, innovative arts scene, youthful energy and unpretentious vibe. Get Involved Student Organizations University Events Athletics and Recreation Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools & Colleges Academic Departments Centers & Institutes Libraries & Collections Global Education Non-Degree Programs Admission & Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Medical School Admission Executive & Professional Admission Tuition & Aid Research Find a Researcher Industry Engagement Conducting Research at Brown Life at Brown Athletics & Recreation Community Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Providence Student Organizations University Events News Featured Events For Journalists Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Life at Brown Open details for Life at Brown Bookmark this Page