Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Career and Technical Education, BS Develop Educational Programs That Teach Real-World Skills for Career Success Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Community Innovation and Education Department(s) Ed Ldrshp & Higher Education 4 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Explore the Intersection of Academic and Technical Knowledge The BS in Career and Technical Education (CTE) program prepares you to become a career and workforce education and training leader. You’ll utilize innovative measures to influence and serve in modern educational and organizational settings. Many students enrolled in this program are experienced subject matter experts from all industries and businesses. Because of this, all of your coursework is relevant and individualized to your specific field. Become a CTE teacher for high schools, technical colleges, community colleges, state colleges or correctional facilities. Teachers work in formal educational settings in programs with degrees, diplomas or certificates. Another career path with this degree is a workforce trainer position. Workforce trainers work in business and industry in informal settings: workshops, conferences, online learning webinars that do not provide a degree or diploma. These are usually short sessions with only adults. Designed with the working professional in mind, you can complete your career and technical education degree fully online. Workforce Training & Development Track Designed to cultivate a new generation of compelling career and workforce training leaders, this track gives you the tools to seamlessly transfer your industry knowledge to adult learners. In addition to the career and technical education core course requirements, you’ll also take two upper-division electives in workforce training and development fundamentals and workforce training and development instructional planning. Highlights The career and technical education program prepares you to become a teacher or trainer in business and industry. Earn your degree 100% online or on campus — providing you with the convenience and flexibility needed to balance work, school and life. The median pay for career/technical education teachers is $58,110. Training and development specialists earn nearly $61,000. The market for training and development specialists is expected to grow 9% through 2028. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Special Populations in Career and Technical Education Get an overview of strategies and resources in meeting the needs of special populations in career and technical education settings. Principles and Practices of Technical Education Integrate historical principles, career structure and current trends in technical education. Curriculum Development for Industry Training Explore the practical application of fundamental knowledge, important skills, alternative analysis methods and the critical elements of the trainers analysis tasks. View All Career and Technical Education Courses You’ll Take I gained so much knowledge about the industry. I learned exactly where to find my industry accreditation standards and how to look up the FLDOE frameworks. I also discovered all that I needed to become a CTE instructor for my industry. I am so thankful that I chose the CTE program at UCF. It has opened so many opportunities for me.” — Betty Leh, ’18 Career and Technical Education Skills You’ll Learn Explore pedagogical skills that will transfer your knowledge to your students efficiently and effectively. Network with external stakeholders such as student organizations, industry and associations. Get first-hand experience on how to teach in a lab or corporate setting. Career Opportunities CTE Teacher: Middle, Secondary and Postsecondary School CTE Curriculum Specialist CTE Program Coordinator Training and Development Specialist Corporate or Industry Trainer Career and Workforce Consultant College of Community Innovation and Education News Check out more stories Colleges & Campus Knights Do That Podcast: Best Moments of Season 1 and 2 Theater student Alex Cumming reflects on his favorite moments as his time as host comes to an end. Season three of Knights Do That launches… Colleges & Campus Dean Named for the College of Community Innovation and Education Grant Hayes, interim provost and senior vice chancellor for Academic Affairs at East Carolina University, starts at UCF Aug. 1. Science & Technology New Tool from UCF-led Team Shows Homeowners and Renters the True Cost of Disasters The tool can provide disaster readiness reports for 13.3 million addresses in 196 counties along the Gulf of Mexico — including all of Florida, and… Colleges & Campus Former Foster Care Child, Now Mother of 3 Reaches Goal of Becoming Teacher Recent spring graduate Jeanette Marie Reynoso shares her unlikely path to achieving her dream. Degree Search College of Community Innovation and Education programs Bachelors Career and Technical Education (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Engineering and Computer Science Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × What is Career and Technical Education (CTE)? Career and Technical Education programs and courses prepare youths and adults for a wide range of skills and competencies for career pathways within industries in the workforce. The Career and Technical Education (CTE) B.S. degree program prepares developing teachers, trainers, and leaders who seek to utilize innovative measures that influence and serve students in modern educational and organizational settings. Career and Technical Education B.S. Program Vision: To create an effective and efficient workforce. Career and Technical Education B.S. Program Mission Statement: To develop accomplished CTE educators, trainers, and leaders who successfully prepare their students for college and career opportunities. The Career and Technical Education (B.S.) core courses are offered online. The program is offered as an online track and a traditional track. It may be completed fully online, although not all elective course options or program prerequisites may be offered online. Newly admitted students choosing to complete this program exclusively via UCF online classes may enroll with a reduction in campus-based fees. Please review UCF Online for more information. This degree is not an initial teacher certification at the state level. Complete each course used for the major with a "C" (2.0) or better, and earn a minimum GPA of 2.0 in each major requirements section. Online Career and Technical Education, BS Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 3 Total Credits Core Requirements: Basic Level Complete all of the following Core Requirements: Basic Level Complete the following: ECT2002 - Introduction to Career and Technical Teaching and Training (3) Core Requirements: Advanced Level 27 Total Credits Core Requirements: Advanced Level Complete the following: ECT3062 - Professional Roles of the Career & Technical Teacher (3) ECT3365 - General Methods/Testing Evaluation in Career & Technical Education (3) ECT3367 - Evaluation of Career & Technical Education Instruction (3) ECW3564 - Special Populations in Career & Technical Education (3) ECT4004 - Principles and Practices of Technical Education (3) ECT4184 - Curriculum Development Techniques for Industry Training (3) ADE4382 - Teaching Adult Learners in Technical Programs (3) ECT4815 - Safety in the Technical Education Classroom and Laboratory (3) ECT4384 - Advanced Teaching Techniques for Career Education (3) Course Construction 3 Total Credits Course Construction Requirement Complete at least 1 of the following: BTE4410 - Course Construction in Business Education (3) ECW3312 - Course Construction in Health Occupations Education (3) ECT3371 - Course Construction in Industrial Education (3) Technical Specialization 30 Total Credits Technical Specialization Requirements Earn at least 30 credits from the following types of courses: Students must complete an area of specialization through occupation-specific courses approved by advisor. *May need additional elective courses to meet 120 undergraduate credit hours per the university minimum exit requirements. See advisor for more information. Restricted Electives 9 Total Credits Restricted Electives Earn at least 9 credits from the following types of courses: Upper Division Electives With advisor's approval Directed Field Experience 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: Directed Field Experience The Technical Specialization must be satisfied and all courses must be completed prior to registering, through your advisor, for the Directed Field Experience. This supervised internship may be completed in an educational or industrial setting, or with the UCF program faculty assisting in teaching web-based courses. The internship course has a S/U grading policy. An internship application and other requirements are necessary before admission into the internship course. Grand Total Credits: 84 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida