Skip to main content Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us News & Events Directory Give Contact Undergraduate Back Undergraduate Bachelor of Business Administration Business Minors Canfield Business Honors Integrated MPA Student Life Get Involved Canfield Business Honors Challenge Yourself Graduate Back Graduate Master's Programs Master's Programs MPA – Accounting MS Business Analytics MS Finance MS Health Care Transformation MS IT & Management MS Marketing MS Technology Commercialization MBA Programs MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Weekend MBA – Dallas Weekend MBA – Houston Doctoral Take the Next Step Explore Our Graduate Programs Centers & Initiatives Back Centers & Initiatives Centers & Initiatives More than 20 centers and initiatives bring professionals and academics together to advance the future of business. Each one focuses on a critical part of industry, from supply chain management to blockchain and beyond. View All Centers KBH Energy Center for Business, Law, and Policy Supply Chain Management Center AIM Investment Conference Register and Attend Faculty & Research Back Faculty & Research Centers & Initiatives Research Faculty Directory Departments Departments Accounting Business, Government, & Society Finance Information, Risk, & Operations Management Management Marketing Steven Kachelmeier Named Accounting Chair Read the Full Story Recruiters & Corporations Back Recruiters & Corporations Recruiters Corporations Events Contact & Visit Why McCombs Recruit With Us Learn More Corporate Partners Learn More Alumni Back Alumni Benefits Community Events Awards Give Poised Pioneer Peggy's Story Texas McCombs Presents RSVP About Back About The McCombs Difference Leadership Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Invest in McCombs Commencement Contact Coronavirus Life at McCombs Meet the Dean Our Leadership McCombs Centennial Celebrate With Us About Life at McCombs Virtual Tour The McCombs Difference Our Values Facts and Rankings Our History Leadership Diversity Equity and Inclusion Programs and Initiatives DEI Committee Elevate Conference By the Numbers Invest in McCombs A Million for McCombs Capital Campaign Stewardship and Donor Relations Scholars Program FAQ Contact Us Centennial Commencement Keynote Speakers Contact Coronavirus Student Guide AboutCoronavirus COVID-19 Updates Protect Texas The mission of The University of Texas at Austin has always been to unlock the potential of our students and prepare them to change the world. That same mission will continue as we educate students, and they work toward earning their degrees. View Protect Texas FAQs Safely Reaching Our Goals President Jay Hartzell has led a university-wide planning effort that provides a framework for eac semester. It is designed to accommodate the dynamic environment we are facing and enable us to adapt to changes in the prevalence of COVID-19 in Austin and throughout Texas. Our guiding principles of Protect Texas Together, along with specific actions and vaccine updates, can be found below. Protect Texas Site View FAQs McCOMBS STUDENT GUIDE Please use this guide to find specific information for McCombs students, including: Maintaining a safe campus environment How our buildings and classrooms have been set up to promote health and safety Connecting with your program office staff McCombs virtual career management and recruiting resources Using Zoom for remote learning and other activities Getting technical support from media and computer services TOP THREE THINGS TO EXPECT WHEN RETURNING TO CAMPUS Important safety protocols and health and wellness information that faculty and students should know and expect when returning to McCombs School of Business and the University of Texas at Austin campus this fall. Covid-19 Resources Campus Updates Protect Texas Website UT COVID-19 Updates University Health Services COVID-19 Vaccine Updates For Emergency Technology Support UT Student Emergency Services Academic and Community Resources Protect Texas Together App Texas One Stop Longhorns Online Longhorn Connection Counseling and Mental Health Center Texas Global On-Campus and Field Research Restart Prevention Guidelines If you experience symptoms of respiratory illness, call the UHS Nurse Advice Line at 512-475-6877 before coming in to be seen. Prevention Guidelines McCombs Faculty and Staff Returning to the Office We previously announced that our official return to full in-person operations is Monday, August 16. Faculty and students will return sooner, but UT gives CSUs flexibility to delay the return of non-student facing/non-direct student support personnel until September 16. What does that mean for McCombs? Our college supports the academic mission, and most staff are student- or faculty-facing, so our broad expectation is that most staff will return in person, consistent with their planned FWAs as of August 16. However, please work with your supervisor and department lead to conduct business that is not essential to being on-campus from home. Those who normally hold in-person office hours, academic counseling, career coaching sessions, etc. may conduct these sessions virtually through September 16. We expect that the student academic experience is still primarily on-campus and in-person, please evaluate co-curricular and social events carefully for the next few weeks to determine what is essential to be held in-person. Health and Safety Protocols. Health and Safety Protocols As conditions in our community continue to improve, and with the availability of vaccine, and prevention and treatment options, UT is aligning its recommended masking guidance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at this time. Our current COVID-19 Community Level is low. The CDC’s new guidance explains that individuals in low-level communities do not need to wear a mask, regardless of vaccination status and including in K-12 and early education settings. People may choose to mask at any time, for any reason and it is still recommended that individuals who are immunocompromised or at high-risk continue to take precautions. As we have throughout the pandemic, we will continue to monitor local and campus data, consult with our public health experts, and consider unique attributes of our campus environment to determine recommendations and guidance. We encourage the use of the Protect Texas App each day prior to coming to campus. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line (BCCAL) remains available as the primary tool to address questions or concerns from the university community about COVID-19. It is important for employees to report COVID-19 symptoms to the Occupational Health Program (OHP) as soon as possible and stay home to self-isolate. Employees should contact OHP if they have COVID-19 symptoms or have been tested because they have symptoms (even if the test was negative), or if they think they may have been exposed. Students who test positive should contact BCCAL or self-report (if tested off campus) to University Health Services. Faculty should review the COVID-19 Exposure Guide for in-person/hybrid classrooms or labs. Flexible Work Arrangements The availability of Flexible Work schedules for most of our staff will reduce the density in our offices each day and allow for a safe return now and in the future. Communications from McCombs HR last week provided details about the University’s required FWA request form for staff to complete. As requested by the University, we had set a date to complete of August 30; however, we will extend our deadline to September 16. You may still complete the form now. We hope this extension will provide some flexibility and allow for focus on other activities that may take priority at this time. The university has an accommodation process available for faculty and staff with personal medical conditions and disabilities that make them high-risk to COVID-19. Faculty and staff with personal medical conditions should submit their request for accommodation to the University ADA Coordinators. Staff who do not have a personal medical condition or disability that makes them high-risk to COVID-19, but live with such a dependent, should contact their supervisor to discuss flexible work options that may be available to them. Faculty who do not have a personal medical condition or disability that makes them high-risk to COVID-19, but live with such a dependent, should fill out the faculty flexible teaching form. For guidelines on immunocompromised and other medical conditions, please refer to the CDC guidelines. At this time, living with a child under the age of 12 who is not immunocompromised will not qualify the faculty or staff member for accommodation. Resources McCombs Online Resources (MOR) Webmail Safety at McCombs Intranet Canvas Tech Support My McCombs What's Happening News Events Big Ideas Research Give Now Get in Touch Contact Marketing, Web, and Communications Faculty Directory Staff Directory Give Now (512) 471-5921 2110 Speedway Austin, TX 78712 Rowling Hall 300 W Martin Luther King Jr Blvd Austin, TX 78712 © 2021 McCombs School of Business, The University of Texas at Austin