Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services> Accounting Services> Tuition and Fees Refund Schedule - Version 1 Tuition and Fees Refund Schedule Version 1 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Policy REG07.35.02 Title Tuition and Fees Refund Schedule Category Finance, Operations and Auxiliary Services Sub-category Accounting Services Authority Chancellor History Replaces Statement #1 of the Business Manual, approved to post as PRR June 25, 2018. Contact Student Financial Services Accounting Manager, (252) 737-6886, cashier@ecu.edu Related Policies Additional References 1. Introduction Students who drop courses or withdraw from the University may be eligible for a full or partial refund of tuition and fees. 2. Fall and Spring Terms Refunds for fall and spring terms are determined as follows: 2.1. Main Campus and Continuing Studies For students who withdraw or drop to a lower block of credits hours: 2.1.1. During the first five consecutive class days, starting with the first official day of classes for the University, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 100%; 2.1.2. During the sixth through the tenth consecutive class days, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 75% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 2.1.3. During the eleventh through the fifteenth consecutive class days, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 50% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 2.1.4. During the sixteenth through the twentieth consecutive class days, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 25% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 2.1.5. Beginning with the twenty-first consecutive class day, refunds will not be considered. 2.2. Special Course Fees 2.2.1. Approved Special Course Fees are charged in addition to required tuition and fees and include but are not limited to private music fees, remedial math fees, nursing fees, bowling fees, ice skating fees, and golfing fees. 2.2.1.1. During the first five consecutive class days, starting with the first official day of classes for the University, special course fees are refunded at 100%. 2.2.1.2. Beginning with the sixth class day, refunds will not be considered. 2.3. Brody School of Medicine Refunds for fall and spring terms are determined as a function of the medical student’s level and program start date and follow the same refund schedule as stated in section 2.1. 2.3.1. Disability insurance fees and lab fees are non-refundable. 2.4. School of Dental Medicine Refunds for fall and spring terms are determined based on the School of Dental Medicine’s start date and follow the same refund schedule as stated in section 2.1. 2.4.1. Disability insurance fees are non-refundable. 3. Summer Terms 3.1. Main Campus and Continuing Studies First and Second Summer Terms 3.1.1. During the first five consecutive class days, starting with the first official day of classes for the University, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 100%; 3.1.2. Beginning with the sixth day of class, refunds will not be considered. 3.2. Main Campus and Continuing Studies 11 Week Term 3.2.1. Refunds for the 11 Week Term follow the same refund schedule as stated in section 2.1. 3.3. School of Dental Medicine Refunds for the summer term are determined as follows: 3.3.1. During the first five consecutive class days, based on the School of Dental Medicine’s start date, tuition and fees will be refunded at 100%; 3.3.2. During the sixth through the tenth consecutive class days, based on the School of Dental Medicine’s start date, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 75% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 3.3.3. During the eleventh through the fifteenth consecutive class days, based on the School of Dental Medicine’s start date, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 50% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 3.3.4. During the sixteenth through the twentieth consecutive class days, based on the School of Dental Medicine’s start date, tuition and required fees will be refunded at 25% minus a $25 non-refundable processing fee; 3.3.5. Beginning with the twenty-first consecutive class day, refunds will not be considered. 4. Housing and Dining Charges Campus Living charges for housing and dining are determined by contractual agreement. Any requests for refunds or financial appeals associated with housing and dining contracts must be submitted to, and approved by, the ECU Campus Living Appeals Committee. 5. Student Health Insurance For any student who withdraws from the university, or who no longer meets the eligibility criteria, refunds are available as follows: 5.1. During the first ten consecutive days of class based on the first official day of class per the University Academic Calendar, health insurance charges will be refunded at 100%. 5.2. Starting with the eleventh class day, refunds are not available. 6. Appeals Students wishing to appeal for a refund outside the published refund schedules referenced by this Regulation may file a written appeal with the Tuition Refund Appeals Committee. The student must specify in writing the grounds for the basis for her/his appeal. Submit appeal documentation to either the Office of the Registrar or the Cashier’s Office. 7. Official Withdrawals 7.1. School of Dental Medicine students wishing to withdraw must give written notice to the School of Dental Medicine’s Office of Student Affairs. 7.2. Brody School of Medicine students wishing to withdraw must give notice to Brody School of Medicine’s Office of Student Affairs. 7.3. All other students intending to withdraw from the University must provide written notice to the Office of the Registrar. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier