Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Commencement 2022 Commencement & Reunion 2020-21 Harvard Commencement Schedule Awards Videos …→ Harvard Business School→ Commencement 2022→ Celebrating the Harvard Business School Class of 2022 MBA and Doctoral graduates, along with students, faculty, friends, and family celebrate their achievements, and Dean Srikant Datar provides words of inspiration for the future. 26 May 2022 Harvard Business School On May 25 & 26, 2022 we held in-person events for Class Day and Commencement to celebrate the graduation of the Class of 2022. Videos Video Embed Getting to Know 2022 Class Day Student Speaker Peter Kiernan The MBA Class of 2022 student class day speaker Peter James Kiernan talks about growing up in Long Island, New York where the effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedy reverberated through his community and inspired him to enlist in the Marines once he turned 18. He talks about his goals after graduation, and what the Harvard Business School mission means to him. Getting to Know 2022 Class Day Student Speaker Peter Kiernan The MBA Class of 2022 student class day speaker Peter James Kiernan talks about growing up in Long Island, New York where the effects of the September 11, 2001 tragedy reverberated through his community and inspired him to enlist in the Marines once he turned 18. He talks about his goals after graduation, and what the Harvard Business School mission means to him. Video Embed Class Day Welcome from April Weathers, MBA 2022 Student Association Chief Community Officer April Weathers welcomes graduates and guests to the 2022 Class Day Ceremony. Class Day Welcome from April Weathers, MBA 2022 Student Association Chief Community Officer April Weathers welcomes graduates and guests to the 2022 Class Day Ceremony. Video Embed 2022 Class Day Student Association Co-Presidents Harvard Business School MBA Class of 2022 Student Association Co-Presidents Brett Andersen & Irvin Gomez addressed the class during this year’s Class Day ceremony. 2022 Class Day Student Association Co-Presidents Harvard Business School MBA Class of 2022 Student Association Co-Presidents Brett Andersen & Irvin Gomez addressed the class during this year’s Class Day ceremony. Video Embed 2022 Class Day Student Speaker Peter James Kiernan Peter James Kiernan (MBA 2022) gave the Harvard Business School Class Day student address. 2022 Class Day Student Speaker Peter James Kiernan Peter James Kiernan (MBA 2022) gave the Harvard Business School Class Day student address. Video Embed 2022 Class Day Distinguished Speaker Robert Ryan Robert “Bob” L. Ryan (MBA 1970), former CFO of Medtronic Inc. and Union Texas Petroleum, and a 2022 Alumni Achievement Award recipient, addressed the Harvard Business School Class of 2022. 2022 Class Day Distinguished Speaker Robert Ryan Robert “Bob” L. Ryan (MBA 1970), former CFO of Medtronic Inc. and Union Texas Petroleum, and a 2022 Alumni Achievement Award recipient, addressed the Harvard Business School Class of 2022. Video Embed 2022 Welcome Address Jan Rivkin & Jana Kierstead Professor Jan Rivkin, MBA Program Chair, and Jana Kierstead, Executive Director of the MBA & Doctoral Programs, gave the welcome address for the Class of 2022 Diploma Ceremony on May 26, 2022. 2022 Welcome Address Jan Rivkin & Jana Kierstead Professor Jan Rivkin, MBA Program Chair, and Jana Kierstead, Executive Director of the MBA & Doctoral Programs, gave the welcome address for the Class of 2022 Diploma Ceremony on May 26, 2022. Video Embed Dean Srikant Datar’s 2022 Commencement Address On May 26, 2022, Dean Srikant Datar addressed the Class of 2022 at the Harvard Business School Diploma Ceremony. Dean Srikant Datar’s 2022 Commencement Address On May 26, 2022, Dean Srikant Datar addressed the Class of 2022 at the Harvard Business School Diploma Ceremony. Video Embed Dean Srikant Datar’s Presentation of the 2022 Alumni Achievement Awards Dean Srikant Datar presented the 2022 Alumni Achievement Awards during Commencement ceremonies on May 26. Dean Srikant Datar’s Presentation of the 2022 Alumni Achievement Awards Dean Srikant Datar presented the 2022 Alumni Achievement Awards during Commencement ceremonies on May 26. MBA Class of 2022 Profiles Meet some members of the Class of 2022. Arielle Anderson Ahmed Farag Alex Furleigh Clear Lake, IA Adriana Garcia Ceja Mexico City, Mexico Auden Laurence Ashley McCray Matteson, IL Ana Kotevska Tracey Brandon Angelini Bridgette Slater Washington, D.C. Carlton Burrell Charlotte Keeley Domingo Garcia-Huidobro Santiago, Chile Drew Keller Mechanicsburg, PA Estevan Santiago Morgan Hill, CA Fatima Albassam Alkhobar, Saudi Arabia Felipe Núñez Los Angeles, CA Hunter Goble Indianapolis, IN Israt Tarin Jeff Barkas Janie McDonough Joe Stenger Barnesville, OH Joe Stenger Justine Lee Jiaojun Wang Xi-an, China Layeeka Ismail Houston, TX Laura Ucros Tellez Merve Ciplak Ankara, Turkey Milly Wang Megan Maloney Bedford, NY Malory Mclemore Birmingham, AL Mike Watitwa Nairobi, Kenya Molly Welch Washington, D.C. Nassima Belkadi Taza, Morocco Olivia Melendez Montclair, NJ Oded Navon Ramat Hasharon, Israel Rishon Benjamin Revee Rapallo Ramya Sundar Chennai, India Shivangi Goel Shardule Shah Sara Mattei Gentili Soley Olafsson Samuel Racana Stockholm, Sweden Sebastian Vargas Bogota, Colombia Yung Winata Washington, D.C. Awards Awards are announced annually during Class Day and Commencement, including Alumni Achievement Awards, the Dean’s Award, Baker Scholars, MBA Faculty Teaching Awards, Wyss Awards for Excellence in Mentoring Doctoral Students, and Leadership Fellows. 2022 Doctoral Graduates Wilbur Xinyuan Chen Accounting & Management Liran Eliner Accounting & Management Aditya Mohan Accounting & Management Maria Francesca Bastianello Business Economics Gabriel Levin Konigsberg Business Economics Matthew Gregory Lilley Business Economics Francis Robert Pinter Business Economics Talia B. Gillis Business Economics Andrea Hamaui Business Economics Ron Nan Yang Business Economics David Hao Zhang Business Economics Michael Christensen Management Yusaku Takeda Management Serena Fleming Hagerty Marketing Byungyeon Kim Marketing Hayley Hogan Blunden Organizational Behavior Ahmmad Allan Brown Organizational Behavior Fulton Christopher Eaglin Strategy MoonSoo Choi Technology & Operations Management Tommy Pan Fang Technology & Operations Management Meitong Li Technology & Operations Management Social Media Feeds Have a great weekend! #LifeatHBS 📸: @harvardinsider Harvard Business School @harvardhbs @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Professor Amy Edmondson discusses how writing and teaching her “Children’s Hospital and Clinics” case has put her psychological safety research into a broader context and increased its impact. #LifeAtHBS #HBSCase100 Harvard Business School @harvardhbs #HBS2022 Facebook Twitter Instagram Yesterday was the perfect day for the Cash House dedication. Dr. James I. Cash exemplifies the School’s mission of educating leaders who make a difference in the world in every aspect of his personal and professional life. Dr. Cash became the first Black tenured professor at Harvard Business School where he spent 27 years on the faculty. Now, Dr. Cash is the first African American to have a building named after him on campus. "Jim is a generous friend and a dedicated mentor to countless individuals, at HBS and beyond. He also is a brilliant and strategic thinker, and someone who works—patiently, persistently, and oftentimes quietly—to improve organizations and advance a more just society. We are honored that Cash House will bear his name and carry forward his legacy." —Dean Srikant Datar Read more via the link in our bio. #HarvardBusinessSchool #LifeatHBS Harvard Business School @harvardhbs @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Have a great weekend! #LifeatHBS 📸: @harvardinsider Harvard Business School @harvardhbs @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow #HBS2022 Facebook Twitter Instagram Professor Amy Edmondson discusses how writing and teaching her “Children’s Hospital and Clinics” case has put her psychological safety research into a broader context and increased its impact. #LifeAtHBS #HBSCase100 Harvard Business School @harvardhbs Yesterday was the perfect day for the Cash House dedication. Dr. James I. Cash exemplifies the School’s mission of educating leaders who make a difference in the world in every aspect of his personal and professional life. Dr. Cash became the first Black tenured professor at Harvard Business School where he spent 27 years on the faculty. Now, Dr. Cash is the first African American to have a building named after him on campus. "Jim is a generous friend and a dedicated mentor to countless individuals, at HBS and beyond. He also is a brilliant and strategic thinker, and someone who works—patiently, persistently, and oftentimes quietly—to improve organizations and advance a more just society. We are honored that Cash House will bear his name and carry forward his legacy." —Dean Srikant Datar Read more via the link in our bio. #HarvardBusinessSchool #LifeatHBS Harvard Business School @harvardhbs @perri_smith1 🥳 pic.twitter.com/M08s4lPrpG May 31 2022, 09:32 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Have a great weekend! #LifeatHBS 📸: @harvardinsider Harvard Business School @harvardhbs @kriti_kg pic.twitter.com/x5ziPFyL3K May 31 2022, 10:08 PM Harvard Business School @HarvardHBS Follow Professor Amy Edmondson discusses how writing and teaching her “Children’s Hospital and Clinics” case has put her psychological safety research into a broader context and increased its impact. #LifeAtHBS #HBSCase100 Harvard Business School @harvardhbs #HBS2022 Facebook Twitter Instagram ǁ Commencement Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College