Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Purchasing Uniform Guidance Procurement Standards Purchasing Uniform Guidance Procurement Standards Uniform Guidance (“UG”) is a set of regulations (located at 2 CFR 200) that consolidates federal guidelines impacting research administration. Per the OMB website, this guidance “supersedes and streamlines requirements from OMB Circulars A-21, A-87, A-110, and A-122 (which have been placed in 2 C.F.R. Parts 220, 225, 215, and 230); Circulars A-89, A-102, and A-133; and the guidance in Circular A-50 on Single Audit Act follow-up.” Link to the eCFR (Code of Federal Regulations) Uniform Guidance 200.320 Methods of procurement to be followed. In order to keep policies for managing sponsored projects consistent, Brown University will implement the Uniform Guidance Procurement Standards for all sponsored projects as of July 1, 2018. Goals of Uniform Guidance UG significantly reforms federal grant making to focus resources on improving performance and outcomes. The intent is to reduce administrative burdens for grant applicants and recipients and reduce the risk of waste, fraud, and abuse. Procurement guidance is specifically located in sections 200.317-200.326. This guidance focuses on increased competition and transparency in the procurement process. There are five general procurement standards that cover the purchase of property, supplies and services under the Uniform Guidance: The organization must maintain written policies and procedures for procurement covering the methods available under these regulations. Costs must be reasonable and necessary Must provide for full and open competition The organization must maintain written standards of conduct covering internal and external conflicts of interest The organization must maintain documentation addressing cost and price analysis and vendor selections where applicable based on the method of procurement used. There are five available methods of procurement for each purchase which are summarized below: 1. Micro-purchases: up to $10,000* Brown University has received approval to remain at $25,000 The University must distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers. Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive quotations if the non-Federal entity (Brown) considers the price to be reasonable. 2. Small purchases: Between $25,001 and $250,000 Rate quotes must be obtained from an “adequate” number of qualified sources. Three sources will be considered to have met this requirement. Quotes can be obtained from suppliers or from public websites and included as backup documentation for the purchase 3. Sealed bids: $250,001 and above Preferred method for procuring construction Two or more qualified bidders Bids are publicly solicited from an “adequate” number of known suppliers Lowest responsive and responsible bidder for the fixed price contract should be awarded the contract 4. Competitive proposals: $250,001 and above Used for either a fixed price or cost reimbursement contract when sealed bids are not appropriate Formal procurement methods also require public advertising unless a noncompetitive procurement meets the requirements stated below Proposals must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources Written policy for conducting technical evaluations of reviewing proposals and selecting the recipient Most advantageous bid wins, price and other factors considered 5. Noncompetitive procurement. There are specific circumstances in which noncompetitive procurement can be used. Noncompetitive procurement can only be awarded if one or more of the following circumstances apply: The acquisition of property or services , the aggregate dollar amount of which does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold ($25,000) The item is available only from a single source; The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting from competitive solicitation; The Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly authorizes noncompetitive proposals in response to a written request from the non-Federal entity (OSP/BMRA should route such a request to the federal agency and will manage as an Agency “prior approval” request); or After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined inadequate Additionally, every sole source will require a price/cost justification. Examples of methods of providing this documentation include: documenting cost analysis efforts documenting market research including screenshots, emails, and/or catalog prices documenting pricing information obtained from colleagues at peer institutions who have purchased the same or similar items documenting prices of similar items UG Conflicts of Interest Policy As part of the OMB’s Uniform Guidance, there are new requirements for conflicts of interest within a procurement action and how the University must handle them. The regulation states: “No employee, officer, or agent may participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by a Federal award if he or she has a real or apparent conflict of interest. Such a conflict of interest would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in or a tangible personal benefit from a firm considered for a contract.” Related Links Competitive Bid Requirements and Sole Source Purchases Home SPCI Process Improvement Projects (BCM, BrownBuys, Supplier Onboarding) Staff About Strategic Suppliers Strategic Sourcing Uniform Guidance Overview Ordering Goods and Services Contract Review Conducting Business with Brown University Posted Bid Opportunities Brown's Property Insurance Office Forms Policies Print this Page Share this Page Strategic Purchasing, Contracts & Insurance Brown University Box 1845 Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2206 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Related Offices Insurance Controller's Office