Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Applied Research and Evaluation PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Applied Research and Evaluation PSM Applied Research and Evaluation PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master’s in Applied Research and Evaluation Obtain advanced theoretical, methodological and statistical training while developing expertise in applied research with the Professional Science Master’s (PSM) in Applied Research and Evaluation in Temple’s College of Education and Human Development. In this 30-credit, interdisciplinary master’s degree program, students develop the knowledge and skills necessary to conduct applied research and evaluation studies in professional educational and organizational settings. Drawing on the expertise and experience of faculty in the College of Education and Human Development, Applied Research and Evaluation PSM students form a sophisticated understanding of research design and methodology, quantitative and qualitative data analysis, and interdisciplinary approaches to research execution. You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your studies through one of two concentrations. You’ll also work individually and collaboratively in applied research, implementing studies and reporting results. Gain experience in analyzing complex quantitative and qualitative data, formulating hypotheses and creating data collection protocols, preparing technical reports and presentations, and more. Through the curriculum, students use conceptual and theoretical frameworks in the social and behavioral sciences to address applied problems in organizational and educational environments. Foundational knowledge in educational and organizational theory, research design, and data analysis leads to real-world professional experiences, field placements and internships, and/or supervised research apprenticeships. The Applied Research and Evaluation PSM is designed to train the next generation of applied researchers across educational, for-profit, governmental and nonprofit organizations. Graduates are prepared to meet a demand in these organizations for professionals with applied research expertise due to a growing emphasis on data-driven decision-making and accountability. Concentrations You can focus on Applied Research and Evaluation or you can take one of the following concentrations. Applied Educational Psychology Develop the research and evaluation skills necessary to conduct studies with children in prekindergarten classrooms through age 16. Students learn to improve the academic and social outcomes for school-age children, adolescents and their families by studying how children develop and learn in several key areas across their lifespan. Organizational Research and Development Form research and evaluation skills for use in nonprofit, for-profit and governmental institutions. You’ll discover advances in research methods and ideas that lead to innovative solutions so organizations can create more successful and sustainable approaches to change. Program Format & Curriculum The Applied Research and Evaluation PSM program can be completed on Temple’s Main Campus, on a full- or part-time basis. The program is designed to be completed in two years as a full-time student or up to four years as a part-time student. Students electing to complete the program without a concentration are required to choose three College of Education and Human Development electives in consultation with their academic advisor. Students in the Organizational Research and Development concentration are required to enroll in Organizational Development and then choose two approved organizational research and development electives. Courses you will take as part of the Applied Research and Evaluation PSM curriculum include the following. Introduction to Qualitative Research Introduction to Research Design Philosophical Foundations of Educational Research Quantitative Analysis Part I Learn more about courses within the Applied Research and Evaluation PSM curriculum. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Education PhD Policy and Organizational Studies PhD Related Graduate Certificates Data-Driven Decision Making Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Individual faculty advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to ensure your smooth passage through the program. Program Contact For questions regarding the Professional Science Masters in Applied Research and Evaluation, contact the following staff member. Joseph P. DuCette is the program coordinator for the Applied Research and Evaluation PSM. Phone: 215-204-4998 Email: joseph.ducette@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. You’ll also find opportunities to give back to the community, either locally or globally. Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. Temple University Graduate Students Association is a student employee union that maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Temple Student Pennsylvania State Education Association hosts events to share effective classroom techniques and other resources for developing teachers. Enrollment For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-AREV-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Applied Research and Evaluation PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.