Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Apply Request More Info Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Public Health in Social and Behavioral Sciences The Master of Public Health (MPH) in Social and Behavioral Sciences at Temple’s College of Public Health trains students to assess and address the behavioral, cultural and social factors that influence pressing public health problems. Through coursework, professional development opportunities and fieldwork experiences, our MPH students learn to plan, implement and evaluate programs designed to improve the health of all people. Social and behavioral sciences is a public health discipline that focuses on health promotion, illness prevention, and barriers to health behavior change, on both individual and health system levels. Professionals in this field use the tools and insights of the social and behavioral sciences to reduce health disparities and promote positive health outcomes, both in the general population and in vulnerable populations such as children, those with chronic physical and mental illnesses, and individuals living in poverty. As a student in the social and behavioral sciences program, you will be prepared for practice-oriented careers in health counseling and education, health promotion, public health program development and evaluation, and research. Our graduates become public health leaders in community-based health agencies, healthcare systems, state and local public health departments, and voluntary health organizations. You will also be able to launch a career in research program management or continue your education in public health doctoral programs. What sets apart our MPH in Social and Behavioral Sciences? Real-world experience: Through the master’s program’s culminating fieldwork experience, students apply their classroom learning to real-world scenarios in health services or public health organizational settings that prepare them to launch their careers in social and behavioral sciences. You will benefit from the mentorship of a community agency partner and receive guidance from our program faculty. Renowned faculty: In and outside the classroom, you will engage with faculty who are experts in cancer prevention, chronic disease prevention, health communication, maternal and child health, nutrition and obesity, organ donation, substance dependence prevention and treatment, healthy lifestyle promotion and more. Interdisciplinary education: The College of Public Health incorporates healthcare and health services disciplines, as well as traditional public health fields. Students can take elective courses across 17 disciplines that range from social work to rehabilitation sciences and speech-language pathology. This opportunity for interdisciplinary coursework and research gives you a broad perspective on health promotion and illness prevention, and prepares you to excel in the complex, diverse field of public health. Research opportunities: Advanced students can engage in faculty research as volunteers, student workers and research assistants. Research opportunities exist both within the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences and across the College of Public Health. Program Format Students can complete the MPH on-site or through our fully online program. The program offers a flexible curriculum: Students can study full time to complete the master’s program in two years, or part time to finish in four years. Students take core courses that explore the fundamentals of public health, as well as courses that focus on essential topics in social and behavioral sciences. You will also complete two fieldwork courses and take electives in order to build topical expertise. See a full list of program courses. Related Graduate Degrees in the College of Public Health The College of Public Health offers four other MPH programs. MPH in Applied Biostatistics MPH in Environmental Health MPH in Epidemiology MPH in Health Policy and Managment A Certificate in Global Health is available to all MPH students, who can complete this certificate by using their three MPH elective courses for global health classes. The College of Public Health offers the PhD in Social and Behavioral Sciences for students interested in pursuing a research-intensive doctoral degree. Dual Degree Programs The public health perspective is relevant to many professional fields in which population-based theory and research can assist in improving health outcomes. An MPH dual degree opens new career options and enhances graduates’ mobility in their chosen fields. The College of Public Health offers two dual degree programs. MSW-MPH with the college’s School of Social Work MPH-MS in Health Informatics with the college’s Department of Health Services Administration and Policy Our Advisors The College of Public Health offers personalized advising services to students in each department. MPH students can seek program support from Theresa White Senior Graduate Advisor and Admissions Phone: 215-204-5105 Email: theresawhite@temple.edu Anne Frankel Online Program Coordinator Phone: 215-204-9117 Email: anne.frankel@temple.edu Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Public Health offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2018–2019 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,020.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,398.00 per credit Online tuition: $975 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. HP-SBSC-MPH Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Social and Behavioral Sciences MPH Accreditation Admissions Departmental Research Fieldwork & Internships Online Program Option Required Courses Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info