Skip to main content About Our Work Explore Our Stories In-Depth Series Tools for Civic Engagement The Challenges of Reopening Confronting the Coronavirus One and All What Do Anxious Teens Need? Welcoming Newcomers Preventing Sexual Harassment Use Our Content CONTACT US: Usable Knowledge Harvard Graduate School of Education 20 University Rd., 6th Floor Cambridge, MA 02138 Challenges? Interests? Get in touch! uknow@gse.harvard.edu @uknowhgse Subscribe Search Fulltext search What Do Anxious Teens Need? We’re in a moment where anxiety is running rampant, spreading like an epidemic among adolescents. The rise of anxiety is burdening schools and counselors, scaring parents, and harming kids, creating dangerous pathways to depression and substance abuse. What can we do? In a series of pieces, we look at how to help teenagers face their fears, build resilience, and grapple with the pressure to achieve — on the road to college and beyond. Social Media and Teen Anxiety How parents can help their kids navigate the pressures of their digital lives — without pulling the plug on the positives. Resilience for Anxious Students How school counselors can manage and mitigate anxiety — by focusing on coping strategies and schoolwide supports. When the Nurse's Office is a Refuge For teens whose anxiety isn’t severe, the school nurse can play a vital, overlooked role in sustaining health and wellness. A Journalist’s Perspective on Anxiety Benoit Denizet-Lewis spent more than a year chronicling the lives of anxious teenagers for the New York Times. What he found is, frankly, scary. “There’s so much focus on ‘the culture’ as a cause for anxiety. And I keep saying to all these adults, we’re the culture.” – Lynn Lyons, licensed clinical social worker. Listen to our interview. Taming the Admissions Anxiety How to parent through the college process — navigating hopes and expectations (yours and theirs) and the minefield of status and achievement pressure. A Short Primer on Resilience Teens — like all of us — can bolster their ability to cope with hardship. Here's how resilience works. A Better Way of Thinking Mindfulness can help us build positive thinking habits and defeat stress or worry. Finding Authentic Service Opportunities Three ways guidance counselors can help: Look for activities that are local, skill-building, and emotionally and ethically engaging. Ensure that students with significant family responsibilities include those contributions on their applications. Remind students that colleges are alert to community service that’s inauthentic or trumped up. See the full resource >> College and (the Real) You What students should know about showcasing authentic community service in college applications. Coping Skills for Anxious Times A conversation about how to confront anxiety — not accommodate or avoid it. Widen Layout: standard About Our Work Subscribe to Our Newsletter Twitter | Facebook Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice