Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Give with global impact A Global University Menu Global home Global learning in our colleges and schools Global partnerships Office of Global Affairs UW Global Travel UW Study Abroad Make a gift Home A Global University Give with global impact Your gift of any amount will help remove barriers to innovation and discovery – in Washington and around the world. Here are two opportunities to make a difference. Global Opportunities Fund Support study abroad scholarships Study abroad is an essential part of the Husky Experience. Through global study, research or internships, students gain self-knowledge, cultural competency and the skills necessary for success in today’s global workplaces. But what’s more, they come home with cultural appreciation and understanding that would not be possible otherwise. You can help us offer this transformative opportunity to all UW students – especially those who dream of going global but are held back by financial limitations. Read more In the past, study abroad was seen as a “nice-to-have” experience for the few who could afford to pay for it. Financial barriers, family obligations and a lack of relevant course offerings limited participation by students from low-income backgrounds, underrepresented communities and STEM majors. UW Study Abroad has made great strides in addressing these issues and expanding access to global learning. Offering more short-term opportunities, partnering with faculty to diversify programming and allocating more resources for scholarships has already made an impact – but we still have work to do. Today, our study abroad community reflects the demographics of our student community. More than 2,200 UW students studied abroad last year. 46 percent were students of color and 15 percent were first-generation college students. However, financial constraints still limit many students’ participation. The UW is committed to ensuring every student has access to this critical aspect of the Husky Experience. Currently, only 30 percent of qualified applicants receive Global Opportunities scholarships. We need your help to go further and to make this opportunity permanently available to all eligible students. Together we can give UW students the experience necessary to change the world. Global Innovation Fund Support faculty innovation Seeking to remove financial barriers to global innovation and collaboration, the Global Innovation Fund provides seed funding for international research, partnerships, projects and student experiences. It promotes inclusive innovation and creates global opportunities for our diverse faculty, students and researchers. Read more Launched in 2014, the fund has so far supported more than 100 remarkable collaborations and generated so much interest that we are able to support only 30 percent of the outstanding proposals received. The UW is committed to supporting global engagement for our innovative faculty and promising students. To make that happen, we must grow the Global Innovation Fund and make it a permanent resource. With your help, we can catalyze collaboration across continents and disciplines, promote understanding across boundaries and develop solutions for problems that matter to us all. Scholarships make an impact Marii Beshir Business major Exploration Seminar to India Without a scholarship, I probably wouldn’t have been able to study abroad. I was passionate about exploring, but finances were a big concern. I went on a faculty-led program to learn about female leadership. The small business owners I met were so amazing! Study abroad inspired me to use my business degree to help people in my local community launch successful businesses. More student stories Maps for the common good Britta Ricker Assistant Professor UW Tacoma I study the technology used in participatory map making, and receiving this award changed the trajectory of my teaching and research. Mapping tools create a formalized process where citizens can alert the government to local problems. In South Africa, I worked with partners from universities and NGOs to learn how they are using grassroots data collection to empower underserved communities. I now teach UWT master's students about these tools, and most of them hope to work in local government. More faculty stories University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA