Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law About Law Admissions Programs Current Students Faculty Careers Library Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Administration & Staff History ML - Memphis Law Magazine Strategic Plan Virtual Tour ABA Disclosures Diversity Diversity HomeTIPMPDPPlus ProgramSTAIScholarships Facilities Facilities OverviewVirtual TourFloor PlansPhoto Gallery News & Events Law School NewsOn Legal Grounds BlogML-Memphis Law MagazineEvents CalendarCommunications OfficeProgram Rankings Directions Contact Us Media ResourceGeneral Contact InfoFaculty & Staff Life in Memphis Memphis-The CityNeighborhoodsHousingThe Arts SceneSportsThe Food SceneA Music TownDirections and Maps Take Action Event Calendars Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Support Contact Memphis Law Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home School of Law About ABA Required Disclosures ABA Required Disclosures Download our ABA Bar Passage Data Download our ABA Standard 509 Report Download our ABA Employment Summaries: Class of 2017 Class of 2018 Class of 2019 Class of 2020 Class of 2021 View our Transfer of Credit Policy TRANSFER OF CREDIT POLICY Credit for law school work competed at law schools other than at The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law will be credited toward fulfilling graduation requirements only after individual consideration by the Dean. No credit, however, will be given for work completed in a United States Law School which is not ABA approved. Advanced standing will be granted only for work done after the student has completed a Baccalaureate degree. To be eligible for transfer, credit earned in each course considered for transfer credit must be at least equal to the overall grade point average required for graduation at the University of Memphis, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law. In conformity with the Association of American Law Schools (AALS), the University of Memphis School of Law may grant a transfer student academic credit up to the equivalent of three semesters for full-time students or up to the equivalent of four semesters for part-time students for work successfully completed at another AALS-accredited law school, and two semesters for full-time students or 2.6 semesters for part-time students for work successfully completed at a non-AALS school. *Information regarding race, gender, and ethnicity has been redacted from the above NALP reports. CURRICULUM ACADEMIC CALENDAR ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS REFUND POLICY LEARNING OUTCOMES The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law ("Memphis Law") has adopted several desired learning outcomes. These learning outcomes reflect the knowledge, skills, and values that the faculty believes are essential to the practice of law. In addition to learning outcomes, the faculty has adopted specific performance criteria for each learning outcome, which reflect the observable actions that will demonstrate achievement of the learning outcome. Click here to view all of Memphis Law's Learning Outcomes and Performance Criteria. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/25/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.