Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Conference & Event Services Conference & Event right arrow down arrow Services right arrow down arrow Conference Planning Event Registration Event Equipment Rental Specialty Lighting Promotional Tabling Weddings Summer Intern Housing Summer Conferences & Camps Catering On-Demand Meeting Rooms Venues right arrow down arrow Tangeman University Center right arrow down arrow Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion right arrow down arrow West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering right arrow down arrow Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Resources right arrow down arrow COVID-19 For Students For Faculty & Staff For Non-University Clients Event Policies Use of Facilities Catering Guide West Pavilion Event & Catering Guide FAQ Contact Us Request A Space right arrow down arrow 25 Live Instructions Home » About UC » Conference & Event Services » Venues » Outdoor Set Navigation title in component Tangeman University Center Great Hall Rates Meeting Rooms Other Event Spaces Nippert Stadium West Pavilion West Pavilion Event Policies West Pavilion Catering Corry Street Catering Menu West Pavilion Rates Campus Recreation Center Outdoor Classrooms Athletic Facilities Other Stratford Heights Outdoor Venues Our campus has a variety of outdoor gathering spaces suitable for events small or large. We recommend you reserve outdoor space for your events. Take the time to consider your plans to ensure all services can be delivered for memory-making college events. Reservable Outdoor Spaces Full Gallery Bearcat Pavilion Brick area & amphitheater between Tangeman University Center, Nippert Stadium and Steger Student Life Center 39° 7' 55.3476'' N 84° 31' 1.4268'' W Full Gallery Bearcat Plaza Brick area on MainStreet between Tangeman University Center and Steger Student Life Center 39° 7' 55.4232'' N 84° 31' 4.0728'' W Full Gallery Blegen Lawn In front of Blegen Hall, adjacent to the Law School 39° 7' 47.3484'' N 84° 31' 11.1432'' W Full Gallery Campus Green Green space north of University Way Spaces A, B, C click for map 39° 8' 1.4136'' N 84° 30' 46.2852'' W Full Gallery Campus Recreation Center East Plaza Partially-covered outdoor area adjacent to east entrance to Recreation Center 39°07'56.5"N 84°30'52.0"W Full Gallery Campus Recreation Center West Plaza Outside of CRC housing complex, by Rec Center Circle 39° 7' 56.5608'' N 84° 30' 55.6524'' W Full Gallery Library Square Patio between Langsam Library, Rhodes Hall and Zimmer Hall 39° 8' 0.4704'' N 84° 30' 57.96'' W Full Gallery McMicken Commons Green space between McMicken Hall and Tangeman University Center Spaces A, B, C, D click for map 39° 7' 54.48'' N 84° 31' 6.0348'' W Full Gallery McMicken Lawn Grassy area on Clifton Avenue side of McMicken Hall 39° 7' 52.3056'' N 84° 31' 12.144'' W Full Gallery Schneider Quadrangle Green space between Swift, Baldwin and Old Chemistry 39° 7' 57.8028'' N 84° 31' 2.9928'' W Full Gallery Sigma Sigma Commons Concrete ampitheater and hillside south of University Way 39° 7' 58.7496'' N 84° 30' 52.6392'' W Full Gallery Tangeman University Center (TUC) Plaza Brick area in front of TUC's main entrance on Level 3 39° 7' 54.2244'' N 84° 31' 4.152'' W Full Gallery Zimmer Roof Garden Patio/green space between Baldwin, Old Chemistry and Rieveschl 39° 8' 0.2904'' N 84° 31' 0.7896'' W Athletic Venues Gettler Stadium/Myers Field Marge Schott Stadium Nippert Football Stadium/Field Sheakley Athletics Center Sheakley Lawn Trabert-Talbert Tennis Center Reserve athletic spaces Outdoor Event Planning Quick Links Athletic Venues Sound Systems Car Smashing Chalking Free Speech Activities Dig Permit Electric Event Fees Food Logistics Planning Rain Locations Site Selection Tent Permit Trash Cans & Removal Amplification Music also makes the event, but there are guidelines. There are established hours during the week when music and other amplification is permitted. This information is found in the Use of Facilities Policy. McMicken Commons and Bearcat Plaza Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 2 p.m. during the academic term. It is NOT permitted during exam weeks, intercessions, or summer semester. Campus Green or Sigma Sigma Commons Mondays and Tuesdays from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays from noon to 6 p.m. Anything outside these locations, times or days will require approval. Requests are made through CES. If your event hosts music or PA system without permission, Public Safety can close it down. Car Smashing Before a vehicle can be brought on campus for philanthropic car smashing, notice must be given to CES at least 45 business days in advance of the event date. Site location must be approved by Facilities Management. Budget for Public Safety presence and Grounds clean up. CES will arrange a logistics meeting for event planning. The following safety procedures must be in place at the event: A tarp must hang out at least 5 feet on all sides of the vehicle to catch any debris. Safety goggles must be supplied to anyone smashing the vehicle. Supply roping around an 8-10’ perimeter around the vehicle. To prep the vehicle these tasks must be done before the vehicle is brought on campus: Drain all fluids Remove all glass Chalking Chalking is only allowed by registered student organizations, and only on cement sidewalks using water soluble chalk. Refer to the Use of Facilities Policy for further information. If the sidewalks are damaged by using non water soluble chalk there may be a fine assessed. No spray chalk is permitted. Designated Speaking Activities For guidance about outdoor free speech, review the Use of Facilities Policy. Dig Permit Anything that penetrates the ground - a tent stake, a yard sign- requires a dig permit. The process requires 10 working days. Notify the CES department at least 30 days for guidance on this process. The sponsoring organization will need to meet with Facilities Management personnel to mark the outdoor spaces with spray paint. CES will assist the sponsoring organization with contacting Ohio Utilities Protection Services to secure a confirmation number. Once inspection by utilities representatives is completed, the sponsoring organization can proceed with areas approved for digging. Refer to the Use of Facilities Policy for the full process. Electric Anything requiring electric not supplied from a standard outdoor wall or column socket must be pre-ordered through Facilities Management. Typical electric orders include: multiple socket panels designed for outdoor use, electric generators to provide continuous power to large equipment, outdoor lights. Some electric equipment must be ordered from a vendor. The sponsoring organization is responsible for ordering electric. If a work order has not been placed in advance, you cannot expect electric to be supplied. The fee is $100. Event Fees Plan your event budget to allocate funds for these UC personnel services. The following service costs are common for outdoor events: Public Safety & EMS personnel (UCPD presence is mandatory if there is an exchange of money due to sales) Grounds clean up or Turf Damage Outdoor electric panels or generator Tent permits Space rental Event insurance Grill Permit If you plan to grill at the event, the sponsoring organization must secure a grill permit and have the copy on the premises (for any grilling or open flame). Call UC Fire Prevention at 513-556-4992. It takes 3 business days to process a permit request. If a permit is not obtained you may be subject to a citation. Logistics Planning Logistics meetings are recommended for events hosting large crowds and/or requiring day-long delivery and set up. This meeting should occur 6-8 weeks prior to the event date. CES will organize these planning meetings with your team together with UC outdoor service personnel. If you wish to organize a logistics planning meeting, please contact the CES office. Rain Locations You should consider a rain location at the time of your original reservation, as rain locations may not be available at the time of your event. The decision to use a rain location must be made a minimum of 36-48 hours prior to the event. Email the rain location space holder your decision not to use their space if you decide to stay outdoors. Failure to do so could result in a NO SHOW for the space and incur room rental costs. Site Selection The map identifies outdoor spaces that require a reservation for an event. Note the McMicken Commons and Campus Green are divided into sections because the spaces are large enough to share and host multiple events, depending on activity and crowd size. If you need the entire space for your event, remember to reserve all sections in 25Live. To clarify misconceptions, Sigma Sigma Commons refers to the outdoor amphitheater space south of the service drive. Athletic fields are reservable through the Athletics Facility Management team. Tent Permit UC Fire Prevention/Public Safety provides tent permits for any canopy or tent structure that is greater than 200 sq. ft. There is a fee for the permit and it must be ordered at least 10 business days in advance. Note that tent vendors cannot process the tent permit for on-campus locations. Information can be found in the Use of Facilities Policy Manual. If the tent is to be secured with stakes in the ground, a dig permit is required. It is recommended the tent be secured with water barrels or concrete blocks. Contact UC Fire Prevention at 513-556-4992. Trash Cans & Removal UC Facility Management Grounds Services supplies the number of trash cans and staff hours required to clean up for your event based on the expected size of your event audience and amount of food/beverage planned. All charges will be billed to the sponsoring organization. The sponsoring organization can request an estimate from Grounds Services to plan your budget. Food at Outdoor Events Food makes the event, but there is significant planning to observe. Outdoor events that are reserved through CES that involve food, must follow these regulations: Food Cooked at Event Anyone who plans to sell raw or uncooked food on UC premises is required to obtain a health permit from: Cincinnati Health Department 3845 William P. Dooley By-Pass Cincinnati, Ohio 45223 513-564-1751 Cost of the health permit is about $153. The sponsoring organization must ensure vendors have secured the permit before they arrive on campus. Contact UC Fire Prevention for a open flame permit at 513-556-4992. It takes 3 business days to process an open flame permit request. If a permit is not obtained you may be subject to a citation. Cooked Food Brought to Event Commercial Food Provider Serving cooked food at your outdoor event supplied by a commercial food provider, requires the organization/ department to provide CES the documentation listed below to safeguard the university, its students, faculty, visitors etc. for food service events/functions conducted outside of existing food service agreements. Event organizer shall provide evidence of food providers current license(s) with the City of Cincinnati or appropriate municipal authority and with the City of Cincinnati Health Code for food service operators. Event organizer shall provide evidence of vendor’s proof of insurance for general liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 in aggregate Event organizer shall provide evidence that the vendor’s insurance names University of Cincinnati as an “additional named insured.” There may be an additional charge applied by the insurance company. All required evidence shall be provided to CES no later than 10 business days prior to event start date. If not supplied 10 business days prior to the event start date, CES reserves the right to cancel the event reservation. Space has to be reserved if having a commercial vendor with food sales. Home-Cooked Food Serving home-cooked food at your outdoor event is at the risk of the sponsoring organization/department. Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 event.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Conference & Event Services 513-558-1810 Tangeman University Center, Suite 265 2766 UC MainStreet Cincinnati, OH 45221-0031 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top