Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Alumni Association Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Alumni Clubs Alumni Community Benefits CAA Arts Access Career Resources Events Get Involved News Columbia Alumni Association You are here: Home Columbia at Home | Learn the Keys to Early Career Success Events Past Event Columbia at Home | Learn the Keys to Early Career Success Share Add to Calendar: Calendar / Outlook Google Yahoo April 6, 2022 6:00 PM - 7:00 PM America/New_York Online Join Phil Grodin ’13BUS, senior finance professional and author of the book, Just Tell Me What I Need to Know!, for a discussion of what it takes to build a successful career from day one. Phil has spent more than 15 years in the corporate world and has managed dozens of young professionals. He’s noticed that they have never been better prepared to handle the technical elements of their careers. However, it’s often the soft skills that end up making or breaking an individual’s success trajectory. Unfortunately, these skills can take weeks, months, or even years to develop through on-the-job trial and error, and they’re not found in any training manual or employee handbook. To address this gap, Phil has written the definitive guide on early workplace success, providing practical guidance and real-world examples. During this program, he’ll cover what managers truly look for in their team members and why. He’ll also speak in detail about how you can set yourself up to become a top performer, outlining how to master essential skills such as: Positioning yourself as a problem solver that gets things done. Taking complete ownership of your work product. Communicating effectively so your voice is heard. Knowing who, when, and how to ask for help. Building lasting relationships with colleagues and peers, especially the difficult ones. Avoiding common pitfalls that can derail your career. Finally, Phil will be available to answer your career questions. These skills are critical for all career paths, no matter the industry you’re in or pursuing. The program will be most valuable to those just starting their career or with less than five years of experience, but all backgrounds and experience levels are welcome! Contact Information Columbia Alumni [email protected] Upcoming Events Columbia Alumni Center 622 West 113th Street, Mail Code 4525 · New York, NY 10025 Phone 212-851-7800 Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close