Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Menu BC Magazine Nav Search Close About Podcasts Class Notes Past Issues Contact Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Photo: Courtesy of Five Boroughs Brewing Co. CHARACTER SKETCH Blake Tomnitz CSOM '12 An investment banking analyst turned award-winning brewer reflects on his journey. By Courtney Hollands Winter 2022 print mail Blake Tomnitz started crafting beer as a student at BC, and kept it up after graduating and moving to New York to work as an investment banking analyst. He visited taprooms around the city, fleshing out the business plan he’d originally drafted while at the Heights, and in 2015, Tomnitz left his job to cofound the award-winning Five Boroughs Brewing Co. in Brooklyn. I met my cofounder, Kevin O’Donnell, when we both worked at the investment bank UBS. We were going to beer festivals and he was the one who pushed me to say, We can do this. Let’s make the jump. We had complementary skill sets. I had more of the business and finance side and he had more of the operations and logistics side, and we both had friends in the beer industry with brewing science backgrounds. We started looking for real estate. We knew that we wanted to be a hyper-local brand, but a very big brand. My parents were a little scared that I was leaving a very stable corporate occupation for something that was very risky. And so I think initially they were concerned, but as time went on and I gave them samples of the beers and updated them on the process and progress we were making, they started to warm up to it and become more excited. They were supportive, but cautiously optimistic—that’s probably the best way to say it. We wanted a name and concept that was fully inclusive. For us, it was important to say that it doesn’t matter if you’ve lived here your entire life, or if you just moved here, or if you’re a tourist. This is New York City’s beer. It’s accessible and you can find it. And most importantly, we have a wide variety of beer styles that hit a lot of different palates. There are pinch-me moments that really keep me going—when people are sitting in the taproom that you built and drinking this product that we’ve made and enjoying it. At the end of the day, beer is communal. It’s a beverage meant to bring people together. Witnessing that is so cool. More Stories Telling the World's Stories For more than twenty years, the Jacques Salmanowitz Program for Moral Courage in Documentary Film at BC has sent fledgling filmmakers around the globe. Fr. Gregory Boyle STM '84 The Jesuit priest talks about the importance of kindness in rehabilitating gang members. Quick Q&A with Matt Manser M'04 A global project manager at the ski equipment company Atomic shares the tricks of his trade. Culturally Sensitive Care BC is training social workers who understand the language and cultures of Boston's growing Latinx population. Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College