Skip to main content Danforth Educational Leadership Program Contact Us University of Washington University of Washington About Advisory Board UW & Seattle Student Resources Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Faculty Internships Mentors & Advocates Core Competencies Admissions Info Sessions & Events Nominate a Danforth Candidate Costs & Aid Scholarships Alumni Impact Alumni Stories Contact Us Menu About Advisory Board UW & Seattle Student Resources Academic Experience Courses & Requirements Faculty Internships Mentors & Advocates Core Competencies Admissions Info Sessions & Events Nominate a Danforth Candidate Costs & Aid Scholarships Alumni Impact Alumni Stories Contact Us Featured Story Slideshow Danforth Educational Leadership Program Full time / 1 Year / Seattle We Lead Differently The Danforth Educational Leadership Program at the University of Washington equips educators to become outstanding principals and program administrators in P–12 school systems. Our innovative competency-based program, which combines proven classroom instruction and cutting-edge research with an intensive internship, will prepare you to be a strong educational leader and to cultivate leadership in others. Learn how the program’s focus on equity and its combination of classroom lessons with hands-on experiences prepare students to become educational leaders. Earn Your Certification in One Year Prepare for Washington's principal and/or program administrator certification. Earn a M.Ed. at the same time by taking additional classes. Explore Danforth Expand Your Educational Vision Join a diverse cohort and learn from top scholars and veteran educators. Explore what it means to be an equity-driven educational leader. Explore Academics Apply What You Learn With the year-long internship, you’ll gain valuable on-the-job experience and work closely with a mentor principal or district administrator. Explore Internship Elevate Your Career Get an edge in your career with our highly respected program. Build a powerful network of Danforth educators who are making an impact. Explore Alumni Impact “Any program can teach you how to lead. Danforth requires you to grapple with the real challenges of social justice leadership — building relationships, striving for transformative change, dealing with moral dilemmas, keeping students at the core of everything we do. It is not an exaggeration to say that the lessons I learned during that transformative, intensive year in Danforth inform my leadership every single day.” — Dedy Fauntleroy Principal, Northgate Elementary School (Seattle) Read alumni stories Important Dates October 29, 2021 Early Bird Application Deadline January 14, 2022 Final Application Deadline how to apply Information Sessions Danforth holds regular meetings, both in person and online, where you can ask questions and find out more about our program. See the Info Sessions & Events page for a list of upcoming sessions. Nominate a Danforth Candidate Know an aspiring educational leader? Tell us about them. Connect with us https://www.facebook.com/uwdanforth University of Washington Be boundless Privacy Terms Brought to you in partnership with UW Continuum College © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA