Skip to main content Skip to main content Visit Support Trigger Search Search this Site Go Menu Trigger Menu Close Search this Site Go Primary Header Navigation ARHU Home Home About Us David C. Driskell Gallery Rentals Exhibitions Collections Support Secondary Header Navigation Events News Visit Contact Mailing List Store University of Maryland David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora Home Telling Our Story: Seeing Art, Seeing Community from the Permanent Collection The David C. Driskell Center presents its Fall 2022 show highlighting works from the permanent collection. Read More about Press Release: Telling Our Story: Seeing Art, Seeing Community from the Permanent Collection $790K Mellon Grant to Fund Sculpture Commemorating Late Professor and Artist David Driskell, Expand Center’s Archive Stainless steel abstract artwork to stand outside Cole; Dr. Tritobia Hayes-Benjamin Archive will add up to 25,000 items to UMD collection. Read More about $790K Mellon Grant to Fund Sculpture Commemorating Late Professor and Artist David Driskell, Expand Center’s Archive Remembering David C. Driskell Professor Curlee R. Holton, director of the Driskell Center, reflects on Driskell's life and legacy. Read More about Remembering David C. Driskell A new initiative with President Pines In his twelve initiatives as UMD's new President, Dr. Darryll J. Pines announced the creation of a display in honor of Prof. Driskell. Read More about A new initiative with President Pines An update for our community David C. Driskell Center COVID-19 Operations Read More about David C. Driskell Center COVID-19 Operations Established in 2001, the David C. Driskell Center provides an intellectual home for artists, museum professionals, art administrators and scholars who are interested in broadening the field of African diasporic studies. The Driskell Center is committed to preserving the rich heritage of African American visual art and culture. David C. Driskell at the University House Works by David C. Driskell and other African American artists currently hang in the University House at the University of Maryland, College Park. View the artwork and their placements within the House in this virtual exhibition. View Exhibition Living Legacy Speaking Tour View the recordings of the Living Legacy Speaking Tour from 2018-19. Hear Prof. David C. Driskell and Prof. Curlee Holton discuss Prof. Driskell's life and legacy. Watch Recordings Explore the David C. Driskell Center Exhibitions The work featured in our past, current and upcoming exhibitions demonstrates our ongoing commitment to documenting and presenting African American visual art and culture. Explore the Exhibitions Art & Archive Collections The David C. Driskell Center is proud to present and preserve its collection of works by African American artists. The art collection includes drawings, paintings, prints, mixed media and sculptures with works by prominent artists, including Benny Andrews, Romare Bearden and Augusta Savage. The Driskell archive was assembled over more than six decades and consists of an estimated 50,000 objects. Discover Our Collections Visit Us Located on the University of Maryland’s campus, the David C. Driskell Center is easily accessible from Washington, D.C., Baltimore and surrounding areas. View Gallery Hours Watch Recordings of Past Events Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the David C. Driskell Center has held their events exclusively online. The recordings of these events are now available! Watch the Recordings Here Virtual Events Archive All of our virtual events have been recorded. Enjoy the Driskell Center's online offerings here! Explore Recordings News & Announcements View All News November 8, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora UMD Gallery Honors a Pioneer in African American Art September 13, 2021 The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center, English, David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora, Art, School of Music Ten Can’t-Miss Features at NextNOW Fest 2021 April 21, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora New ‘Promise’ to Commemorate Pines’ Inauguration April 1, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora, College of Arts and Humanities Remembering David C. Driskell March 22, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora 20th Annual Distinguished Lecture in the Visual Arts in Honor of David C. Driskell SeriesProfessor Curlee R. Holton March 10, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora, Art Mural of a Lifetime February 9, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora, Art HBO Documentary Explores Impact of ‘a Trailblazer for All of Us’ February 8, 2021 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora Review: HBO Original Documentary ‘Black Art: In The Absence Of Light’ December 22, 2020 David C. Driskell Center for the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora Spring 2021 - David C. Driskell's Students /news Events & Exhibitions View All Events Sorry, no events currently present. /events Connect With Us DriskellCenter Follow us on Instagram @driskellcenter View more on Instagram This week we are doing another artist file comparison for the #ArchiveQuickDive! Both the David C. Driskell Papers and the Hayes Benjamin Papers on African American Art and Artists Collection contain artist files on the fascinating artist Dr. Lorenzo Pace. In this artist file comparison, Benjamin and Driskell had more in common in terms of types of materials they collected than they differed. Both contained news articles, exhibition guides, images of some kind and professional correspondence between themselves and Pace. Driskell’s correspondence focused on their work as artists, and contains slides of Pace’s work, while Benjamin’s correspondence focuses on her academic work as a historian collecting on African American sculptors, and contained a stunning, and unfortunately uncredited, photograph of Pace. Here at the Driskell Center we are pleased to have both these perspectives in our archives, as well as the piece seen here “The Story of the Lock” in our art collection, and an exhibition guide with writing by Pace (who is also an author) in our library. Having such a breadth of material on Lorenzo Pace in one place provides unique opportunities for study for researchers who come to the archives, and we are honored to be able to provide such opportunities for those interested in Lorenzo Pace. #blackart #blackartist #africanamericanart #africanamericanartist #driskellcenter #archivalresearch #artistfile Here to hit you with another #ArchiveQuickDive! While we have already featured Tritobia Hayes Benjamin’s materials on the National Conference of Artists in this series before, the NCA was not the only arts group Benjamin collected and researched on. Due to her close working relationship with Jeff Donaldson while they were both at Howard University, the Hayes Benjamin Papers on African American Art and Artists Collection also has a handful of materials on AfriCOBRA. Take a sneak peek at these materials in the pictures! #africanamericanart #africanamericanartist #blackart #blackartist #driskellcenter #jeffdonaldson #afriCOBRA Karina and David are still wading through the arrangement of the Benjamin artist files, after a brief detour into correspondence, so this week for the #ArchiveQuickDive, we thought we’d show you another comparison between artist files in the David C Driskell Papers and the Hayes Benjamin Papers on African American Art and Artists Collection- this time focusing on artist and sculptor Richard Hunt! The first photo is from Driskell’s files. His files on Hunt are primarily composed of his professional correspondence with the artist about exhibitions and awards as well as photographs of Hunt’s sculptures (perhaps used for instruction or curation purposes?). Benjamin’s artist file on Hunt, the second photo of this post, has a much more narrowed focus. It contains a lot of information about sculptures such as “Freedmen’s Column” and “A Bridge Across and Beyond”, both installed at Howard University. She has official programs and announcements about the installations, but also photographs of the installation process. Benjamin’s file also contains her own personal notes and writings on Hunt as an artist and his biographical information. The Driskell Center Archives feels lucky to have multiple perspectives and records on Richard Hunt, and many other important African American artists, and is honored to be able to provide these materials to researchers in order to help play a small part in establishing and maintaining the legacy of these artists. #blackart #blackartist #driskellcenter #africanamericanart #africanamericanartist #richardhunt #freedmenscolumn #abridgeacrossandbeyond #howarduniversity @umd_arhu @umd_archives @richardhuntstudio This week for the #ArchiveQuickDive we wanted to highlight another interesting aspect of the Hayes Benjamin Papers on African American Art and Artists Collection! As a scholar, Tritobia Hayes Benjamin often traveled across the country giving lectures, talks, and serving on panels for various exhibitions, symposiums, and conferences on African American art. Within this collection, we are lucky enough to have many of the drafts of the speeches she gave at these events. Pictured here you will find some excerpts from a talk Benjamin gave at the “Song of My People” exhibition held in Memphis, Tennessee in 1993. The work that was in the exhibition, and discussed by Benjamin was compiled from over 50 black photojournalists to generate the 152 photographs in the exhibition. #blackart #blackartist #driskellcenter #africanamericanart #africanamericanartist #SongofMyPeople #JamesPresleyBall Tweets by @DriskellCenter The David C. Driskell Center for the Study of the Visual Arts and Culture of African Americans and the African Diaspora 1214 Cole Student Activities Building University of Maryland College Park, MD 20742 301.314.2615 driskellcenter@umd.edu Primary Footer Navigation ARHU Home Home About Us Exhibitions Collections Support Secondary Footer Navigation Events News Visit Contact Mailing List Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 University of Maryland Log In Privacy Policy Web Accessibility