Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Careers in streaming Posted on September 30, 2020 By ILR School facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Jordan Berman '95, OFC, moderates a panel discussion Oct. 13 exploring the unique career journeys of Cornellians shaping the era of streaming video services, as part of Cornell Sports & Entertainment Week. The biggest story in entertainment is the explosion of streaming video services bringing movies, series, news, and sports to any device in your home or hand. This panel will introduce an array of alumni working in the digital video space and surface the fascinating academic and professional paths they’ve pursued along the way. Learn what it takes to work in this exciting area where the future of media is coming together right before our eyes! Cornell Sports & Entertainment Week (Oct 12-16, 2020) is a virtual event series for inspiring the next generation of Cornellians to pursue careers in these interrelated and dynamic fields. Cornell students and alumni will interact in immersive online sessions that surface the biggest topics and trends in sports and entertainment. It’s all about learning and networking with accomplished alumni from premiere organizations like the NFL, MLB, NBA, Netflix, HBO and NBCUniversal. Cornell Sports & Entertainment Week is produced by the ILR Alumni Association Sports & Entertainment Executives (SEE) in celebration of the ILR School’s 75th Anniversary and open to all Cornell students and alumni. More About business media entertainment What to watch next 2:05 MyPlaylist YES Network CEO Tracy Dolgin on the value of human capital 55:42 MyPlaylist A conversation with Jeff Immelt 54:06 MyPlaylist Sanford I. Weill: The Real Deal surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×