Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Counseling Center Menu COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health Baylor>Counseling Center>Outreach>Around the Table Around the Table The Baylor Counseling Center welcomes you to this brave space. These spaces are designed to allow all students the opportunity to process their thoughts and feelings surrounding social concerns that occur on local, state, national and/or worldwide level. As individuals, we can be greatly impacted by social influences and when the future is unknown, our mental health can be negatively impacted. These spaces will allow you to express yourself, challenge one another in a positive way, and learn from one another. At times, you may experience discomfort as we are discussing topics that may be uncomfortable in nature. This is an understandable reaction. We want all participants to feel comfortable learning, sharing, and growing together. What is Around the Table? Around the Table is an offered service led by BUCC clinicians who act as facilitators. These facilitators can join your scheduled student organization, classroom, or department to lead discussion when an impactful social event occurs. An impactful event can occur on a local, state, national and/or worldwide level. Around the Table was created in response to the civil discord that occurred in summer 2020. Since then, we have hosted events in response to the 2020 presidential election, the impact of violent protests, and the impact of suicide. As individuals, we can be greatly impacted by social influences and when the future is unknown, our mental health can be negatively impacted. These spaces will allow you to express yourself, challenge one another in a positive way, and learn from one another. At times, you may experience discomfort as we are discussing topics that may be uncomfortable in nature. This is an understandable reaction. We want all participants to feel open to learning, sharing, and growing together. The aim of Around the Table is for students to be able to support one another in growing in resilience and increase positive mental health. What is the format of Around the Table? The format of Around the Table is both structured and discussion based. It is not meant to be a form of therapy services. Facilitators will provide psychoeducation regarding the impact of social events on mental health, offer prepared discussion questions to engage the audience, as well as provide space for participants to share their own thoughts regarding the impact of the social event. How to Schedule and Around the Table event To request that Around the Table join your scheduled lecture time, student organization event, or department event, simply submit a request here. (not active yet). Additional Information about Around the Table Around the Table is not a substitute for ongoing counseling and doesn’t constitute mental health treatment, but it can be helpful by providing space to share specific concerns, help explore solutions, and get support from peers and experienced BUCC Staff. While BUCC Staff will make every effort to maintain confidentiality, we need each participant’s help. In this space, there is an expectation that participants keep information about other attendees private. One exception to confidentiality* is that BUCC Staff may need to share information in a situation in which safety for yourself or others is a concern or there is concern regarding a violation to Title IX policies. At the beginning of every process space, BUCC Staff will review the expectations for the process space. *It is important to note that since these spaces are not considered therapy information shared by participants does not fall under privileged communication. If information is shared that potentially violates Baylor University Sexual and Interpersonal Misconduct Policy, BUCC Staff are required to report this information to the Equity, Civil Rights, and Title IX Office. If you would like to discuss confidential matters, please call our office to schedule an appointment, 254-710-2467. Experiencing a Mental Health Crisis? BUCC offers 24-hour crisis intervention services for Baylor University students or for those who are concerned about an enrolled student. Call BUCC at 254-710-2467. Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form Visit Us McLane Student Life Center, 2nd Floor 209 Speight Ave Waco, TX 76706 Contact Us 254.710.2467 Counseling_Center@baylor.edu Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Counseling Center Facebook Pinterest Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 COVID-19 About Us Confidentiality Contact Us Feedback BUCC Mission Statement Diversity Vision Statement Diversity Meet the Staff Notice of Non-Discrimination Our Interns and Graduate Trainees Records Request Where are we located? POTH Policy Counseling Services Response to Serving Students During the Pandemic Services Baylor Telehealth by Academic Live Care Get Started Here Clinical Services Addictive Behavior Services Are you in crisis? Care Management Services Groups LOTUS Medical Nutrition Services Additional Information about Regina Mastin Office Hours Program of Care Scope of Service Initial Assessments Outreach Around the Table Active Minds at Baylor Outreach Request Form APA Accredited Doctoral Internship Program Letter from the Training Director Adaptation and Flexibility in the APA Internship Program related to COVID-19 APA Accreditation Overview of the APA-Accredited Internship RCT Framework for Training and Supervision Trauma Recovery Supervision Group (TRSG) Diversity Outreach Partnership (DOP) Our Commitment to Diversity Working at a Faith-Based Christian University Application Information & Selection Process Baylor University Our Counseling Center Stipend, Benefits, and Other Resources Internship Admissions, Support, and Initial Placement Data Current and Past Interns Waco & The Heart of Texas Contact Us Maintaining Mental Health