Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Student Handbook Student Handbook: Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies This handbook reflects the policies and regulations that govern the Ed.M. Degree Program. However, please see the individual Program Canvas pages for more information about additional requirements for specific Ed.M. programs. In addition, this section details policies and procedures that apply specifically to master’s students. Coursework and Grade Options In order to meet basic HGSE degree requirements, Master of Education (Ed.M.) candidates must complete courses carrying a minimum of 42 credits. Ed.M. students must complete all required Foundations courses (described below). Ed.M. students must take at least 16 of their total credits for a letter grade. Ed.M. students are permitted to enroll in up to eight credits of independent study or field experience, or combination thereof (not to exceed one per semester). See other sections of this Handbook for information about prior coursework and other academic requirements for all students. Foundations Satisfactory completion of Foundations courses is required in order to earn the Ed.M. degree. Foundations courses are: How People Learn (HPL101, 4 credits), Leading Change (LCH101, 2 credits), Evidence (EVI101, 2 credits), and Equity & Opportunity (4 credits). Equity & Opportunity foundational learning consists of two components: a 2-credit “Identity in Context” module (EQO11) and 2 or more credits chosen from a list of fall, winter, or spring elective courses designated to fulfill the Equity & Opportunity Foundations requirement. Residential Ed.M. students are expected to be on campus for the beginning of August Term on August 3. For Leading Change, Evidence, and Equity and Opportunity: Identity in Context, full attendance and participation in class sessions is required. (How People Learn is a primarily asynchronous course and synchronous class meetings are optional.) In the event of illness or an unanticipated emergency, students must notify their instructor(s) in advance that they will miss class. Any other excused absences from these courses must be approved in advance by the Degree Programs Office and typically will be approved only in the case of significant life events that require missing no more than a single day of the relevant course. Students with more than one unexcused absence from one of these Foundations courses will receive a grade of DRP for that course and be subject to withdrawal from HGSE. Each Foundations course is graded on a SAT/NCR basis. If a student does not receive a SAT for any Foundations course they will be required to retake the course at the next opportunity — a later semester or the following year — and earn a SAT to earn the Ed.M. degree. Exceptions may be granted on rare occasions for those who are approved to take a semester-long leave of absence or face other extenuating circumstances such as a medically documented severe illness, childbirth, adoption, or other family-related disruption. Students in these situations should consult with the Degree Programs Office. Residential Part-Time Ed.M. Students in Foundations Residential part-time Ed.M. students admitted in 2022 are expected to complete all Foundations courses in order to graduate. Residential part-time Ed.M. students will take the Foundations courses during the summer and may take them in the sequence that is best suited to them. For online Ed.M. students, the timing and sequence of Foundations courses will be determined at the program level and will be the same for all students. HGSE recommends that residential part-time students take at least two Foundations courses in their first June and August term at HGSE. For students taking two Foundations courses in their first year, the Degree Programs Office recommends taking How People Learn (HPL101) in June-July and Equity & Opportunity (EQO11) in August of the first year if feasible and taking Leading Change (LCH101) and Evidence (EVI101) in August of their second year. Part-time students may fulfill their remaining Foundations component (2 or more credits in a course designated to count as an Equity & Opportunity elective) any time during their two years. Equity & Opportunity Electives Equity & Opportunity elective offerings represent courses that are aligned with the goals for Foundations in Equity & Opportunity at HGSE. While other courses at HGSE and other Harvard schools address issues of equity and opportunity, only courses designated as fulfilling the Equity & Opportunity Foundational requirement count toward Ed.M. students’ required Foundations credits. Policies for fulfilling incomplete coursework (a grade of “INC”) apply to Equity & Opportunity elective courses. If a student receives a grade of F or INP (permanent incomplete), they must satisfactorily complete another Equity & Opportunity elective course to fulfill their graduation requirement. Academic Progress Review Ed.M. and C.A.S. candidates must maintain at least a B- average. More than one Incomplete and/or a grade average below B- will initiate an academic review at the end of the semester. Ed.M. and C.A.S. candidates who fall below a B- average and/or are carrying multiple Incomplete grades are considered to be in poor academic standing. Students may not register for a new semester with more than one Incomplete. A student’s degree candidacy may be terminated on the basis of poor academic standing. Petitions to Change Program or Concentration Occasionally, Ed.M. students may wish to petition to change their Ed.M. program or concentration from the one to which they were accepted. Students wishing to do so must complete the Petition for Change of Program or Petition for Change of Concentration, which are available on the HGSE Office the Registrar website and include more details about the process. Such petitions must include a clear justification for wanting to make such a change. In order to be granted a change, approval must be secured from the current program/concentration Faculty Co-Chairs, the new program/concentration Faculty Co-Chairs, and the Director for Master’s Studies. Note that not all petitions will be granted due to admissions and program needs; thus, students should consider carefully in which program to enroll without assuming the possibility of transferring to another program or concentration. In this section Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Student Handbook Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice