COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Data Science, Master's Master'sData Science All Programs College of Engineering School of Computing A Master of Science (MS) in data science from Wichita State will prepare you for a high-paying, high-demand career in fields like machine learning and artificial intelligence—as well as for success in a future Ph.D. program. You’ll have access to some of the best research facilities in the country and the chance to work and research with faculty and industry professionals on campus and throughout Kansas’ largest city. Learn how Data Science is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program The program is open to bachelor’s degree holders in computer science, computer engineering or a related area. For consideration, you must have a minimum 3.0 GPA (or equivalent score from another country) in your bachelor's degree. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program New facility for the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation Wichita State University is moving forward on a facility to house the National Institute for Research and Digital Transformation (NIRDT) as part of WSU's Convergence Sciences initiative. Research and partnerships created in the facility will be focused around the convergence of faculty and students from many different WSU departments across the university for the sole purpose of developing research in a broad range of economic sectors, including the high-tech sectors, health sector, manufacturing, defense and logistics while supporting the aviation and aerospace industries. Curriculum The program consists of at least 30 hours and includes courses in business analytics and intelligence, data mining, artificial intelligence, deep learning, algorithmic techniques, database systems and bioinformatics. View the curriculum Careers Whether you’re pursuing a promotion or preparing for a Ph.D., WSU’s vast industry connections, research opportunities and unmatched facilities create an environment for our engineering students to gain the expertise that leads to dream careers. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Analytics (Master's) Mathematical Foundations of Data Analysis (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©