Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Providence & RI Graduate School Skip to Navigation Providence & RI Providence, Rhode Island, is a place of distinctive people, original thinking, and local pride. Lucky for you, Brown is right in the middle of it all. Its distinctive colonial history leaves its mark on more than streets and churches. City founder Roger Williams, who left the Massachusetts Bay Colony in pursuit of religious freedom, went on to carve out a new colony in an area sometimes dubbed Rogue’s Island. That spirit has shaped the local culture and institutions, such as Brown, which is dedicated to diversity and intellectual freedom. Brown/Trinity Rep MFA actors in "Edwin Drood"In the state capital, you can find experimental theater next to karaoke, rock clubs around the corner from old Victorian homes, and a skating rink at the mayor’s doorstep. The beauty of Providence is that it keeps its idiosyncratic ways and treasured stretches of colonial architecture, while also embracing the more cosmopolitan aspects of Boston, to the north, and New York, to the south. The advantage of living in the smallest U.S. state — only 48 miles long by 37 miles wide — is especially apparent when you go exploring: No Rhode Island destination is more than an hour away. Head down to Newport for great music festivals or sample the Ocean State’s storied coastline, with beaches from Watch Hill to Little Compton. If you prefer spending your time inland, there are local farms, vineyards, orchards, hiking, a drive-in theater, dozens of parks, and numerous towns in which you can experience unadulterated Rhode Island-ness (stuffies and cabinets, for example). Downtown Providence has experienced dramatic growth during the past 25 years, highlighting its emergence as one of the most exciting urban areas in the country. Travel + Leisure magazine has repeatedly named Providence one of America's Favorite Cities. Strong cultural life and food and restaurants make it a standout. Some Providence-related links of note: AS220 — Shows, galleries, parties, dance classes, theater. Senior statespeople of the underground arts scene. CraigslistRI David Winton Bell Gallery Dunkin’ Donuts Center Festival Ballet Gallery Night — A gallery and museum tour of Providence. Haffenreffer Museum Improv Jones — Rhode Island’s premier improv comedy troupe. Ivy Film Festival Latin American Film Festival Motif Magazine — Online publication with news, music, sports, restaurants, theatre and more. Newport Art Museum Providence Bruins — Minor league hockey. Providence Business News — News, arts, culture, nightlife, music. Providence Daily Dose Providence French Film Festival Providence Journal Providence Monthly Providence Performing Arts Center ProvidenceRI.com — City of Providence’s official website. Providence/Warwick Convention & Visitors Bureau Rhode Island International Film Festival Rhode Island Family Guide Rhode Island Monthly Magazine Rhode Island Philharmonic RISD Museum of Art Rhode Island State Parks — Get back to nature. Roger Williams Park Zoo Sandra Feinstein-Gamm Theatre Sarah Doyle Gallery Trinity Repertory Company WaterFire — Soothing music, invigorating dance, and a flaming river in the heart of downtown. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Brown University Travel Portal Rhode Island Facts & History More State History Rhode Trip Trinity Rep Banking: Locations near campus Voting: Board of Elections Auto Registration & Licence: RI DMV Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants