Skip to main site navigation Skip to main content Open the search panel Open the main menu Search Go Close the search panel Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers News Events Alumni Giving About Library Login Open the Search panel Admissions Admissions Why Columbia J.D. Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics J.D. Program and Curriculum LL.M. Program and Curriculum Executive LL.M. Program and Curriculum J.S.D. Program and Curriculum Dual and Joint Degrees International Programs Public Interest and Public Service Experiential Learning Courses Registration Services Academic Calendar Executive Education Areas of Study Areas of Study Constitutional Law, Regulation, and Public Policy Corporate, Business, and Transactional Law Criminal Justice Data Analytics Environment and Energy Family, Gender, and Sexuality Intellectual Property and Technology International and Comparative Law Law of the Workplace Leadership Legal History Litigation and Dispute Resolution National Security and Privacy Social Justice and Human Rights Faculty & Scholarship Faculty & Scholarship Faculty Directory Research Centers and Programs Scholarship Archive Workshops, Lectures, and Colloquia Careers Careers Private Sector Careers Public Interest and Public Service Careers Academic Careers Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment Policies Community Life Community Life Visit Campus Dean’s Welcome Your Campus, Your City Student Life Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Initiatives Arthur W. Diamond Law Library One of the finest collections of legal materials in the nation—at your service. More in this Section Explore Arthur W. Diamond Law Library: About the Law Library FAQ Finding Material Pegasus Catalog Services Collections Contact the Law Library Electronic Resource Use Policy The Arthur W. Diamond Law Library, named after Arthur W. Diamond (Class of 1926), located in Jerome Greene Hall, is home to one of the most comprehensive print and digital legal collections in the country. In addition to a comprehensive U.S. law collection, it also has strong collections in international, foreign, and comparative law and a special section devoted to Japanese law. Print Collection 440,000+ titles from 184 countries in 149 languages Largest collection of Japanese law materials at a U.S. university 200,000+ titles covering foreign and comparative law 60,000+ titles covering public and private international law 550,000+ volumes located offsite and accessible in 24 hours 30,000 volumes and 1,500 linear feet of papers and manuscripts in Special Collections Students can browse almost all the books located onsite, both in the Law Library and in other Columbia University Libraries. Electronic Collection 100,000+ titles, covering U.S., foreign, and international law Extensive collection of legal electronic databases (U.S., foreign, and international) Access to the entire Columbia University database collection Reference Librarians All Reference Librarians have law degrees and graduate library science degrees and are available seven days a week for help with: Legal research Research planning Source gathering Online databases Internet searches Interlibrary loans from institutions across the world Quick Links Browse the Law Library’s Catalog Guide to Law Library Services and Policies Fee-Based Services Department Related News Read All Stories More in The Press Law School News News Meet Columbia Law Library Director Simon Canick A teacher, scholar, and lawyer, Canick returns to Columbia’s Arthur W. Diamond Law Library, where he began his career as a reference librarian two decades ago. Admissions Why Columbia Visit 435 West 116th Street New York, NY 10027 212-854-2640 Contact Us Social Media (Administrative Title) Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram Admissions Academics Areas of Study Faculty & Scholarship Careers Community Life Information for… Incoming J.D. Current Students Faculty Staff Media Employers Login News Events Alumni Giving About Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Donate © Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.