Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Alumni Menu Alumni Connect Give Light Publications & Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Media and Public Relations Social Media Make a Gift Baylor>Baylor Alumni News May 13 2022 Study business or ministry? This 2022 Baylor MDiv/MBA grad answered, ‘Both.’ Before Connor Griffin (BBA ’18, MBA/MDiv ’22) could drive a car, he had already started a business. He and his brother would push a lawnmower around their neighborhood, earning money by caring for nearby yards. As the son of small business owner, he had entrepreneurship in his blood — but he also felt a call … May 12 2022 Even cancer couldn’t stop this #BaylorGrad from earning her degree Being 20 years old, away from home at college, and faced with the challenges of a pandemic is hard enough. Now imagine learning that you have cancer and must undergo chemo in the middle of it all. That’s the situation Baylor senior Ellie Kronlokken faced 18 months ago — and yet, this weekend, the Minnesota … May 12 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. May 12 2022 Baylor to Celebrate More Than 3,000 Graduates at Spring Commencement WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Last spring in the midst of COVID, Baylor University celebrated the Classes of 2020 and 2021 with socially distanced outdoor ceremonies at McLane Stadium. In 2022, Baylor’s spring commencement returns to the Ferrell Center May 13-14. May 12 2022 Carillon recital for May 2022 graduates Baylor University Carillonneur, Lynnette Geary, performs a recital on the McLane Carillon in honor of the May 2022 Graduates. Apr 28 2022 Baylor prof’s studies on inclusion for visually impaired inspires blind student to attend BU Navigating life as a first-year college student is hard enough — a new city, new classmates, new roommates, etc. Now imagine what that’s like for someone who physically can’t see. But that hasn’t deterred San Antonio native Noah Cook. At three months old, Cook was diagnosed with glaucoma, a condition where the fluid in the … Apr 28 2022 Center for Academic Success and Engagement to Unveil Ancestral Legacy Mural WACO, Texas (April 27, 2022) – A new Ancestral Legacy Mural in Baylor University’s Center for Academic Success and Engagement (CASE) in the Sid Richardson Building has joined the growing list of inspirational murals located throughout the City of Waco. Apr 25 2022 How friendship between Baylor profs leads to incredible opportunities for BU students Baylor is large enough to offer top-notch academics and championship-level athletics — but small enough that you still see your friends when walking across campus. That goes for both BU students and faculty. Baylor’s “not too big, not too small” atmosphere allows interdisciplinary friendships to grow among the faculty — and students reap the benefits. … Apr 22 2022 Baylor graduate programs fare well in latest U.S. News rankings Every year, U.S. News unveils its annual ranking of American colleges and universities to the world. Last fall, Baylor came in at No. 75 in the nation — among the top 20% of national universities — and made the outlet’s short list of best schools for both undergraduate teaching and undergraduate research opportunities. (Baylor was … Apr 20 2022 Honoring some familiar Baylor faces retiring this year Every spring, the Baylor Family bids happy retirement to professors and staff who have dedicated their professional lives to the university and its students. It’s always a bittersweet mix — sadness in seeing them go, happiness for a well-deserved next step — but we wish them all well in the next phase of their lives. … Apr 19 2022 Baylor’s Dr Pepper Hour Tour to Visit DFW-area Schools DALLAS, Texas (April 19, 2022) – The “best hour of the week” – Baylor University’s Dr Pepper Hour – is spending the next two weeks making local stops at Dallas/Fort Worth-area high school campuses as part of an eight-week Dr Pepper Hour Tour of Texas and Colorado. Apr 14 2022 How a Baylor history class saved a BU student’s life When Sarah Kraut sat down in her first class as a Baylor freshman — World History 1305 — she didn’t know she’d leave that semester with a new best friend. She also didn’t know that very friend would be the one to save her life. But that’s exactly what happened. When she was 14, Sarah was … Apr 14 2022 Baylor Off to Record-breaking Pace with Prestigious International Scholarships WACO, Texas (April 14, 2022) – Baylor University students from across the disciplines are off to a record-setting 2021-2022 academic year by receiving some of the most prestigious – and competitive – scholarships, fellowships and internships at the national and international levels, including a record-shattering 13 Fulbrights - and still counting – as well as Baylor’s first Truman Scholar in 15 years and recipients of the Goldwater Scholarship, Critical Language Scholarship and Churchill Scholarship. Apr 14 2022 Happy Easter from Baylor University We rejoice this Easter in the resurrection of Jesus Christ and give thanks for His overwhelming love for us. Apr 12 2022 NaLyssa Smith (No. 2 overall) leads trio of Bears selected in 2022 WNBA draft For the first time in program history, Baylor women’s basketball had two top-10 picks in the WNBA draft — and the duo will get to be teammates at the next level. First off the board: The Big 12’s most dominant player, NaLyssa Smith, who was selected No. 2 overall by the Indiana Fever. Smith followed … Apr 11 2022 Baylor’s Dr Pepper Hour Tour to Visit Austin Schools AUSTIN, Texas (April 11, 2022) – The “best hour of the week” – Baylor University’s Dr Pepper Hour – is spending this week making local stops to Austin-area campuses as part of an eight-week tour of Texas and Colorado. Mar 11 2022 Texas’ first female licensed engineer was a Baylor Bear A century ago, the first woman in Texas to become a licensed professional engineer was getting her start right here at Baylor. Leah Moncure (BA ’25), came to Baylor from Bastrop (east of Austin) alongside her twin sister, Grace. The daughter and granddaughter of a country surveyor, Leah had always been good with math, and … Mar 10 2022 Space Force Major now uses lessons he learned at Baylor as an Air Force instructor Since graduating from Baylor in 2009, Jamil Brown (BA ’09) has already worn a lot of hats: U.S. Space Force Major, political science instructor at the U.S. Air Force Academy, fellow at the Institute for Future Conflict, space operations officer, Air Force Weapons School instructor, and more. At the Air Force Academy, Brown teaches international … Mar 7 2022 Baylor men’s basketball overcomes injury after injury to win second straight Big 12 title Since Baylor men’s basketball won the national championship last spring, graduation and injuries have hit the Bears hard: Four title-team starters graduated (three went to the NBA, one to the NFL). A national top-30 signee lost the entire season to an ACL tear in October. The team’s leading scorer has played only 15 minutes in … Mar 4 2022 Waco’s first licensed female physician? A three-time Baylor grad, Dr. Hallie Earle In 2013, Baylor Regents approved “Hallie Earle Hall” as the name for the southern part of what would debut that fall as East Village. Since then, thousands of Bears have lived in the building — but to many, “Earle” is still a new name in Baylor history. So let’s answer the question: Who was Hallie … Mar 3 2022 Winners of Baylor’s Semper Pro Musica Competition to Perform at Renowned Carnegie Hall in New York City WACO, Texas (March 3, 2022) — Seven student winners of Baylor University’s fifth biennial Semper Pro Musica Solo and Chamber Competition will perform at New York City’s prestigious Carnegie Hall in May. Mar 2 2022 National Study Examines Link Between Accountability to God, Psychological Well-being WACO, Texas (March 2, 2022) – Religious believers who embrace accountability to God (or another transcendent guide for life) experience higher levels of three of the four variables of psychological well-being – mattering to others, dignity and meaning in their lives, though not happiness – according to a study from researchers with Baylor University, Westmont College and Hope College. Mar 1 2022 Women’s 12th straight Big 12 title (!!!!) caps impressive 72-hour stretch for Baylor hoops The calendar says March just began today — but March Madness clearly began early for Baylor. In less than 72 hours — Saturday through Monday — Baylor’s basketball programs: Hosted ESPN’s College GameDay; Defeated Kansas (women); Beat No. 5 Kansas (men); Beat No. 9 Iowa State by 25 on the road (women); Beat No. 20 … Feb 28 2022 Scenes from Sing 2022 After countless hours of planning, practicing and performing (plus a one-year hiatus due to COVID-19), All University Sing returned this spring — and after all that work, this year’s shows are now complete, having entertained thousands of Baylor students, alumni and friends. [LINKS: Photos from this year’s performances || Read The Lariat‘s coverage of #BaylorSing 2022] … Feb 25 2022 Meet Baylor’s internationally recognized expert on supply chain management Empty grocery aisles. Delayed deliveries. Items out of stock indefinitely. Chances are good you’ve experienced the effects of supply chain problems at some point recently. It can be frustrating to understand why this happens, but there’s definitely a method to the madness. And Baylor has an internationally recognized expert on the topic. When it comes … Are you looking for more News? Archives Baylor Alumni Clifton Robinson Tower 700 S. University Parks Drive Waco, TX 76798 (254) 710-8300 BaylorAlumni@baylor.edu Alumni Connect Baylor Magazine BaylorProud Give Light General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Testing Mode Alumni Connect Give Light Publications & Media Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Media and Public Relations Social Media Make a Gift