UH Wellness - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UH Wellness Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search UH Wellness Home About Us Strategic Goals Biennial Review Staff Office Locations and Hours Wellness Model Programs Alcohol and Other Drugs IMAGE Toolkit Mental Health Meditation Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Peer Body Project Relaxation Station/HIPOD Sexual Health Testing Resources Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Violence Prevention Education Sexual Violence Prevention Peer Health Educators Sexual Assault Awareness Month Bystander Intervention Sexual Violence Intimate Partner Violence (IPV) Resources General Wellness Care for the Air - Tobacco Education and Resources LeadWELL Wellness for the Health of It Cougar Peer Educators Signature Events Fresh Check Day Out of the Darkness Walk Sexual Assault Awareness Month Suicide Prevention Week Unwind with Wellness on Wednesdays World AIDS Week Services Request a Consultation Request a Presentation Educational Sanctions BASICS CASICS Minors in Possession (MIP) Resources Healthy Eating and Physical Activity Mental Health Sexual Violence Prevention Sexual Health Substance Use Back to Basics Wellness Apps Donate UH Home UH Wellness We cultivate a community of care. UH Wellness is here to support you in all your health and well-being needs. We cultivate a community of care to promote and enrich the health and well-being of our students to become successful scholars and engaged global citizens. Programs Signature Events Resources Upcoming Events Aug 30 1:00 pm Masturbation 101 This engaging workshop will focus on stigma, logistics, and media portrayal of self-pleasure. Sep 01 12:00 pm Sex Shouldn’t Hurt This workshop is not medical advice. Sep 13 2:00 pm Bystander Intervention Features Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Mental Health First Aid is a public education program that introduces participants to risk factors and warning signs of mental illnesses, builds understanding of their impact, and overviews common supports. Sexual Violence Prevention and Education (SVPE) UH Wellness is committed to creating and sustaining a campus culture free of sexual violence. Through our sexual violence prevention and education endeavors, we seek to empower campus community members to join us in this mission. Cougar Peer Educators It is important to know that although professionals and other faculty or staff can provide students with a wealth of knowledge and ideas around living healthy, it is the PEER, who can really have an impact. Cougar Cupboard The Cougar Cupboard is a partnership between the University of Houston and the Houston Food Bank. The University of Houston is excited for the Cougar Cupboard to join the Food for Change market network. Wellness Model The nine dimension model helps students understand how several areas of life can affect their overall health and well-being. UH Wellness will highlight one dimension a month to provide students a chance to explore how to improve their lives in each dimension. Social Wellness Financial Wellness Emotional Wellness Intellectual Wellness Spiritual Wellness Cultural Wellness Occupational Wellness Environmental Wellness Physical Wellness Dimension Social Wellness Social health is an individual’s ability to relate to and interact with others. A socially well individual builds healthy relationships with others. Tips to help Cougars with Social Wellness Dimension Financial Wellness A financially well person manages their money, does not get into credit card debt, thinks long-term, and does not make money the driving force of life. Tips to help Cougars with Financial Wellness Dimension Emotional Wellness Emotional wellness is being aware and accepting of not only your own feelings and emotions but also the feelings and emotions of others. Tips to help Cougars with Emotional Wellness Dimension Intellectual Wellness To be intellectually healthy, it is essential to continue to explore new avenues and interests and to regularly engage in new and ongoing learning opportunities and experiences. Tips to help Cougars with Intellectual Wellness Dimension Spiritual Wellness A spirit well individual has identified a core set of beliefs, which guides their decision making and other faith based endeavors. Tips to help Cougars with Spiritual Wellness Dimension Cultural Wellness A culturally well individual is aware of their own background, as well as the diversity and richness present in other cultural backgrounds. Tips to help Cougars with Cultural Wellness Dimension Occupational Wellness An occupationally well individual knows enough about themselves to choose a rewarding occupation that fosters positive attitudes towards work. Tips to help Cougars with Occupational Wellness Dimension of the Month Environmental Wellness An environmentally well individual recognizes that they are dependent on their natural environment just as the environment is dependent on them, and takes action to protect it. Tips to help Cougars with Environmental Wellness Dimension Physical Wellness A physically well person actively makes healthy decisions. They know how to maintain a healthy body through nutrition, exercise, and avoiding harmful habits. Tips to help Cougars with Physical Wellness Newsletter Want monthly well-being news and healthy tips by email? Subscribe to our newsletter! Follow Us on Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram Powered by Curator.io University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies