Skip to main content The University of Texas at Austin Menu Header Helpful Links Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Families & Visitors Search Search Maps Directory UT Direct Give Apply Search Search About Academics Academic Experience Areas of Study Extended Campus Cockrell School of Engineering College of Education College of Fine Arts College of Liberal Arts College of Natural Sciences College of Pharmacy Dell Medical School Graduate School Jackson School of Geosciences LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture School of Information School of Law School of Nursing Steve Hicks School of Social Work School of Undergraduate Studies Admissions & Aid Be a Longhorn What Starts Here Changes the World. It's more than a motto. It’s what we prove each and every day, as Texas and its Exes advance discovery and innovation on a global stage. Join us. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions School of Law Admissions Dell Medical School Admissions Tuition & Costs Financial Aid Campus Visits Campus & Community Explore Your Passions Thousands of events, from concerts and film screenings to readings and lectures. More than 1,100 student organizations. Incredible facilities and special attractions. And it's all set in the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Welcome home. Arts & Culture Campus Destinations Entrepreneurship & Innovation Health & Wellness Housing & Dining Life in Austin Report Misconduct Safety & Security Student Involvement Longhorn Resources Research Change the World Longhorns are passionate about making the world a better place, united by the belief that creating and sharing knowledge can save lives and transform society. Come explore our vast research enterprise — or better yet, create, innovate and discover with us. Overview Student Research Units & Centers Off-Campus Research Sites Libraries Experts Guide Athletics News General Information on Campus Carry On June 1, 2015, Gov. Greg Abbott signed Senate Bill 11 (S.B. 11), also known as the "campus carry" law. S.B. 11, which is codified in section 411.2031 of the Texas Government Code, provides that persons licensed to carry a handgun in Texas may carry a concealed handgun on university campuses. The law gives public universities some discretion to regulate campus carry. The University of Texas at Austin takes issues surrounding guns on campus very seriously and has adopted rules and regulations governing campus carry that conform to Texas law, protect the rights of citizens and ensure the safety and security of the entire campus. S.B. 11 provides that after consulting with students, staff and faculty regarding "the nature of the student population, specific safety considerations and the uniqueness of the campus environment," a university may enact reasonable rules and regulations regarding: carrying of concealed handguns by license holders on campus; and storage of handguns in dormitories or other residential facilities The law stipulates, however, that these rules and regulations may not either "generally prohibit" or "have the effect of generally prohibiting" license holders from carrying concealed handguns on campus. UT Austin’s rules and regulations governing campus carry are set forth in the university Handbook of Operating Procedures (HOP 8-1060). Under S.B. 11, individuals who are licensed to carry may carry concealed handguns on campus premises except in locations and at activities prohibited by law or as specified in HOP 8-1060. Safety Is Our Top Priority The University of Texas at Austin is committed to providing a safe environment for students, employees, university affiliates, and visitors, and to respecting the right of individuals who are licensed to carry a handgun as permitted by Texas law. UT Austin is obliged to follow Texas law to the letter and is not at liberty to enact policies or provisions that violate it. Any changes to the law must come through the state legislative process. Who Is Eligible to Carry? Where is Concealed Carry Allowed? Where Is Concealed Carry Prohibited? Information for Permit Holders Individuals who hold a license to carry are eligible to carry a concealed handgun on campus. License holders must be 21 or older and must clear eligibility requirements related to criminal background, mental health history, and substance abuse issues. Learn more about eligibility on the Department of Public Safety website. The concealed carry of handguns by permit holders is generally allowed in outdoor areas, as well as buildings and spaces that are accessible to the public. Permit holders are allowed to carry in classrooms. Faculty members may not impose a ban on concealed handguns in their classrooms. Areas exempted from concealed carry as laid out by state law and campus policy include: Residence halls: Concealed carry is prohibited in on-campus residence halls, except in common areas, such as lounges and study areas. Student residents’ family members with state-issued permits may carry handguns while visiting. Intercollegiate athletics events. Spaces where K-12 programming is held. Businesses that derive more than 51 percent of their sales from alcohol. Selected labs: Certain laboratories and animal-research facilities may prohibit the concealed carry of handguns. It is the responsibility of concealed-carry license holders to carry their handguns on or about their person at all times while on campus. “About” the person means that a license holder may carry a holstered handgun in a backpack or handbag, but the backpack or handbag must be close enough that the license holder can grasp it without materially changing position. The holster must completely cover the trigger area and have enough tension to keep the gun in place if jostled. A license holder may not carry a partially or wholly visible handgun on campus premises or on any university driveway, street, sidewalk or walkway, parking lot, parking garage, or other parking area Who Is Eligible to Carry? Individuals who hold a license to carry are eligible to carry a concealed handgun on campus. License holders must be 21 or older and must clear eligibility requirements related to criminal background, mental health history, and substance abuse issues. Learn more about eligibility on the Department of Public Safety website. Where is Concealed Carry Allowed? The concealed carry of handguns by permit holders is generally allowed in outdoor areas, as well as buildings and spaces that are accessible to the public. Permit holders are allowed to carry in classrooms. Faculty members may not impose a ban on concealed handguns in their classrooms. Where Is Concealed Carry Prohibited? Areas exempted from concealed carry as laid out by state law and campus policy include: Residence halls: Concealed carry is prohibited in on-campus residence halls, except in common areas, such as lounges and study areas. Student residents’ family members with state-issued permits may carry handguns while visiting. Intercollegiate athletics events. Spaces where K-12 programming is held. Businesses that derive more than 51 percent of their sales from alcohol. Selected labs: Certain laboratories and animal-research facilities may prohibit the concealed carry of handguns. Information for Permit Holders It is the responsibility of concealed-carry license holders to carry their handguns on or about their person at all times while on campus. “About” the person means that a license holder may carry a holstered handgun in a backpack or handbag, but the backpack or handbag must be close enough that the license holder can grasp it without materially changing position. The holster must completely cover the trigger area and have enough tension to keep the gun in place if jostled. A license holder may not carry a partially or wholly visible handgun on campus premises or on any university driveway, street, sidewalk or walkway, parking lot, parking garage, or other parking area Campus Carry: The Basics A presentation about UT’s Campus Carry Policy, including common definitions, examples, resources and more View Slides Campus Carry Appeals Process The process for faculty, staff and students to appeal the implementation of the president’s policies by the Campus Carry Implementation Task Force (CCITF) Read more about the appeals process Campus Carry FAQs Frequently asked questions regarding policy implementation, exclusion zones, safety and more Read our Campus Carry FAQs 2020 Report to the Legislature Report submitted to the Legislature detailing UT’s Campus Carry Policy as required by Senate Bill 11 Read the Report Facts Related to Campus Carry Click topic(s) to expand / collapse Expand all Collapse all The law does NOT allow open carry on campus S.B. 11 deals only with the concealed carry of handguns by people who have a license to carry handguns in Texas. It remains illegal to display a firearm in campus buildings or on campus streets, sidewalks, walkways, etc. A person must have a license to carry a concealed handgun on campus S.B. 11 authorizes concealed campus carry only by "license holders," that is, persons who obtain a license to carry a handgun under chapter 411 of the Texas Government Code. To obtain a license to carry, applicants must receive state-mandated training and meet other statutory requirements. One generally must be 21 to obtain a license to carry The minimum age for obtaining a license to carry a handgun is ordinarily 21. (Members and veterans of the military may obtain a license starting at age 18.) UT staff and faculty members do not have authority to ban handguns from classrooms. In general, students with a license to carry have the right to carry a concealed handgun in classrooms. UT staff and faculty members do not have authority to ban handguns from classrooms. Excluding handguns from classrooms would have the effect of generally prohibiting student license holders from exercising their right to carry, and thus would violate state law. S.B. 11 does not affect fraternity or sorority houses or other private residential facilities S.B. 11 covers concealed carry only on campus and in buildings owned or leased by the University. Fraternity and sorority houses are neither on campus nor owned or leased by the university. The same is true for the various private residential facilities in which many UT students live. S.B. 11, therefore, does not affect fraternity or sorority houses or private residential facilities, and the University is not authorized to enact rules or regulations regarding concealed carry in any of those places. It is a crime for a license holder to carry a handgun while intoxicated. This is a class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to one year in jail and/or a fine up to $4,000. Connect with UT Austin Subscribe to our newsletter Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Starts With You Footer Helpful Links Access Course Syllabi and Instructor CVs Campus Carry Contact Counseling and Mental Health Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity, Equity, and Disability Resources ♿ Emergency Information Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Hazing Prevention and Response HEERF/CARES Act Compliance Jobs Online Institutional Resumes Public Forum On Campus Site Policies State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) UT System Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy © The University of Texas at Austin 2022