Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Center for Athletic Academic Services About Services Staff Awards Resources Intern/GA Experience PAWS Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Services to Students Go Tigers Go Become a fan of our page and follow us to receive updates and helpful information! InstagramFacebooktwitter Home Center for Athletic Academic Services About The Center for Athletic Academic Services (CAAS) Who CAAS is and how we support you. CAAS, The Center for Athletic Academic Services, is staffed by the Director, Associate Director, Assistant Director, PAWS Coordinator, a Learning Specialist and four Athletic Academic Counselors. CAAS is also assisted by interns, graduate assistants, student workers, mentors and tutors. Academic support services are provided in a variety of ways, including orientation programs, tutoring, mentoring, academic counseling, study hall, and academic advising. CAAS also has a unique responsibility as it conducts eligibility evaluations for all domestic freshmen prospective student-athletes. CAAS is housed on the sixth and seventh floors of Wilder Tower and covers an area of 8,000 square feet. The center consists of computer stations, a variety of study areas (including tutor rooms, study carrels, and tables), and the offices of the CAAS staff. In addition to CAAS, Wilder Tower houses campus-wide student services, including admissions, bursar, financial aid, registrar, student development, and academic advising. CAAS Mission The mission of the Center for Athletic Academic Services at the University of Memphis is to provide the necessary academic support services for all student-athletes to be successful in the classroom and pursue an undergraduate degree while competing as an athlete. The center is also dedicated to the personal and professional development of all student-athletes through its PAWS (Preparing Athletes for Winning Success) program. 2019-2020 Year in Review 2019-2020 Team Highlights Career Posting and Experience Freshman-Cohort Graduation Rates Graduation Success Rate Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 7/7/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.