COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News File photo Wichita State is one of 17 Kansas universities and colleges participating in the Adaptive and Resilient Infrastructures driven by Social Equity (ARISE) project, funded by the National Science Foundation and the state of Kansas. May 25, 2022Hugo Wall School of Public AffairsSchool of Computingcomputer scienceCollege of EngineeringResearchFaculty/StaffFairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciencescommunity Wichita State team will help Kansas communities deal with natural disasters By Paul Suellentrop A team of Wichita State researchers from electrical engineering, social sciences and computer science will work on the project funded by the National Science Foundation and the state of Kansas. The ARISE project will address resilience and infrastructure in urban and rural communities. Wichita State's team will lead efforts in power systems and capital-asset management. An interdisciplinary team from Wichita State University will participate in a $24 million state initiative to help rural and urban communities prepare for and recover from natural disasters. Wichita State is one of 17 Kansas universities and colleges participating in the Adaptive and Resilient Infrastructures driven by Social Equity (ARISE) project, funded by the National Science Foundation and the state of Kansas. The Wichita State team will lead power-system work and capital-asset management to address resilience and infrastructure responses to disaster and extreme weather events. Kansas currently ranks ninth in federal disaster declarations per capita, according to the Kansas National Science Foundation Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research. Amid changing climate patterns and frequent extreme weather events, historically underserved communities often receive less aid and recover slower from weather disasters. The research team at Wichita State comprises social sciences, electrical engineering and computer science. It will focus on understanding the societal influences on engineering solutions and developing socially equitable solutions to improve resiliency of interdependent systems such as electric grid, transportation and water. It will support the development of a decision-making tool by using artificial intelligence and an interdisciplinary data science consortium. “This multi-university collocation with government, industries and communities provides a unique opportunity to the team to impact the disaster resilience, for example, minimizing rolling electric outages due 2021 polar vortex,” said Dr. Visvakumar Aravinthan, associate professor in the College of Engineering. Aravinthan, Xiaoheng Wang, assistant professor in the Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs; Hongsheng He, assistant professor in the College of Engineering; and Gergely Zarbua, professor in the College of Engineering will collaborate on the project. Business leaders, emergency planners, health professionals, community-based organizations and other stakeholders will work with the universities and colleges, which include the University of Kansas and Kansas State University. The research agenda is supported by an education program that includes creating an interdisciplinary data-science curriculum, which connects students from 11 institutions to community organizations through a new Kansas Data Science Consortium. In addition, ARISE also supports summer research experiences, partnerships with museums and libraries to engage youth and family in science, and workforce development programs for municipal planners and utility operators. The project will propel researchers and educators to the forefront of the resilience science and engineering arena, leading to a vibrant, community-centered research and education portfolio that builds research capacity in Kansas. The project aligns with the Kansas Science & Technology Plan, which was developed in 2021 and endorsed by the Kansas Board of Regents, which provided matching funds for the NSF proposal. Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs The Hugo Wall School, housed in the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, serves as the academic home for the Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree, Environmental Finance Center and Kansas Public Finance Center. Through the integration of teaching, research and community service, the Hugo Wall School of Public Affairs makes a distinct contribution to Wichita State University's long-standing commitment of service to Wichita, the surrounding communities and the region. Learn more about the Hugo Wall School College of Engineering Since 1928, Wichita State's College of Engineering has built a reputation for equipping engineering and computing students with the most complete education possible. From hands-on research using the latest technology to our location in Kansas' center of industry — with its virtually unlimited jobs, applied learning and professional connections — Shocker engineering students have everything they need to make their dream careers a reality. Learn more about the College of Engineering Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis computer science Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge students Meet a Shocker: Cameron McGinley 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©