Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Psychology (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Enhance your understanding of human behavior. As a psychology major, you will be on your way to a career in human services, management, education, health, sports or many other fields that require an in-depth understanding of human behavior. Our program is empirically based, so you will spend your time focused on research studies exploring mind, behavior and the links between them. We offer both a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology. While both prepare you for post graduate studies and careers, the Bachelor of Arts includes more foreign language classes, whereas the Bachelor of Science degree requires additional math and science courses. If your goal is to develop a set of knowledge, skills and abilities that allow you to understand and solve human problems, then this is the major for you. FAST FACTS Clemson offers a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology. A practicum course enables interested students to gain preparatory clinical and counseling experience at local hospitals and crisis centers. Students can work closely with faculty and graduate students on a variety of real-world research projects. Each year, several undergraduates' co-authored papers are presented at regional, national or international psychology conferences. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Coursework provides students with an overview of the scientific study of the individual, including biological bases of behavior, cognition, perception, human development, personality and social behavior. You will gain experience in measurement and research design, data collection and statistical analysis of empirical data, and you will learn how to use experimentation and data analysis to conduct research and broaden your understanding of the various causes of human behavior. You will apply these principles to disciplines such as human performance, psychological health, interpersonal relations and organizational functioning. Curriculum Psychology, B.A. Psychology, B.S. Popular Minors Youth Development Studies Sociology Cluster – Life Sciences Business Administration Human Resource Management Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Health Science (B.S.) Management (B.S.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Psychology students are an active bunch. Not only do they get to study fascinating material in class, they also get to work in the lab, conduct innovative research alongside faculty members and participate in psychology studies (and sometimes even get paid for it)! Community Participate in a living-learning experience where you live and learn with your peers in a dedicated residence hall. Take part in educational and extracurricular activities while forming lifelong friendships. Research Psychology students work in a variety of high-tech laboratories. These include the driving simulator lab, where students conduct numerous experiments designed to assess driving patterns and the effects of technology on driving behavior. Join The Psychology Club is a great way to interact with fellow majors and engage in the professional world of psychology. Each year, club members present research papers at the annual meeting of the Southeastern Psychological Association. Learn More » Human Factors The Human Factors and Ergonomics Society focuses on human behavior and performance in a variety of contexts. Join fellow majors and faculty in studying, for instance, how does the use of portable electronics impact driving behavior? I-O Psychology How do high-stress situations impact human behavior? If you want to know the answer, then the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, where students and faculty research human behavior in a variety of contexts, may be for youLearn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Psychology Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Human Resource Coordinator The Compass Group Corps Member Teach for America Sales Representative ScanSource Insurance Agent State Farm Insurance Company Behavioral Interventionist Green Mountain Behavioral Consulting RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Speech-Language Pathology Vanderbilt University MSW New York University Ph.D. Human-Centered Computing Clemson University J.D. University of Tennessee MBA Wake Forest University COMMON CAREER AREAS Human Services Direct Care: Mental Health Services Physical Health and Wellness Administration: Advocacy Community Relations Research Social Research Market Research Data Analysis Education Teaching Student Affairs Administration Training Human Resources Employment and Recruitment Compensation and Benefits Organizational Development Training Business and Industry Sales Customer Service Management Insurance Real Estate Public Relations Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Sydney Porter Academic Adviser sporte4@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Health Science (B.S.) Management (B.S.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.)