Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Student Disability Services Menu Search TTU Student Disability Services Student Disability Services Announcements Read a transcript of the welcome video (Word Document) Let's Get Social! Twitter Facebook Instagram Tweets by @TTUSDS Student Disability Services Student Disability Services is more than accommodations. Texas Tech University has one of the most comprehensive departments for students with disabilities in the state of Texas. Student Disability Services (SDS) staff provide a variety of accommodations and services for individuals with disabilities. Accommodations are tailored to the individual and the disability. With approximately 2,000 students registered for services, we encourage students to overcome challenges and attain personal and academic success while the SDS staff functions as a student advocate. Through active involvement with all areas of the University, SDS is able to monitor conditions relevant to students with disabilities and offer support in decisions affecting their quality of life. In addition to the services offered by our main Student Disability Services office, SDS also offers a supplemental academic enhancement program for students with Learning Disabilities and Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorders, the TECHniques Center. The TECHniques Center is a fee-for-service program that provides one-on-one, regularly scheduled content and study skills tutoring, as well as weekly meetings with an academic counselor. Mission Student Disability Services promotes each student's learning experience by providing programs and services for students with disabilities and education of the campus community on issues related to students' disabilities. Vision The Department of Student Disability Services will become nationally recognized as the leader in enhancing student learning and development for students with disabilities through the provision of direct academic services such as classroom accommodations, tutoring, training, academic counseling, and ongoing campus training and education. Important Information ADA Syllabus Statement Faculty, is the ADA statement on your syllabi up to date? A standard and mandatory syllabus statement has been published for you to use (O.P. 34.22 and O.P. 10.08). View the mandatory Americans with Disabilities Act Syllabus Statement. Veterans with Disabilities Because we know the transition from active duty to a college classroom can be challenging, SDS would like to make this transition as smooth as possible. Resources to accommodate a disability can open up educational opportunities. You may email the SDS staff liaison for further information or contact the Military & Veterans Programs office at Texas Tech directly. Web Accessibility Texas Tech University is committed to making every possible effort to ensure all electronic and information technology developed, procured, maintained, or used is accessible to individuals with disabilities. If you cannot fully access the information on a particular page, please email SDS for assistance. Faculty, to make your materials accessible, please follow the guidelines described on our accessibility web page. For more information, please email SDS (main SDS functional mailbox), or call at 806.742.2405 Quick Links Apply to Student Disability Services Request LOAs & Manage Accommodations Contact Us Drop-in Tutoring Schedule Helpful Video Resources Request an Interpreter SDS Home Page TECHniques Center Home Page SDS & TC Scholarships SDS & TC Scholarships FAQ Service Animals Emotional Support Animals Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Student Disability Services Address 130 Weeks Hall, MS 45007 | Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.2405 Fax 806.742.4837 Email sds@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 12, 2022 2:02 PM Student Disability Services About Us Quick Links Students Student Disability Services Students Back Student Resources Current Students Future Students SDS Events Faculty Resources Meet the Staff Give to SDS TECHniques Center Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index