Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Scientists use color catalog of biosignatures to search for extraterrestrial life Posted on March 18, 2016 By Carl Sagan Institute, Department of Astronomy Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X [MUSIC PLAYING] [GEARS WHIRRING] LISA KALTENEGGER: When you look up at the sky, you see thousands of stars. All these stars are other suns, and we're finding the first planets around those. My field of study is astrophysics, but really what I'm passionate about is is there life in the universe, and what's going to be the future of our own earth? For the first time in human history, we have the technology to search, and it's there to find it. I came here to build an interdisciplinary institute. That means you find people and professors from all different departments, to take a biologist, a chemist, somebody who does stars, somebody who builds satellites to look at planets far, far away. Take all of them together and use their knowledge from so many different fields to understand or to ask how does a planet that's habitable work? What we did here at the Carl Sagan Institute, we took the information of 137 different kinds of living organisms, and see how they would reflect light. How they reflect light also means that if you have a planet covered with them, the sun shines onto them, the light reflects. As an observer, I can see whether the planet is completely red, green, or whatever. It was a big scientific discovery, there was a big paper, and a lot of journalists actually called, among them The New Yorker,. Because this idea that you could have a color catalog of life, that's something that's very accessible. It was great because it reached a lot of people, other scientists, but also the general public. I engage with journalists whether it's a story that they write online or whether it's a TV production company. I'm happy to show people how science actually connects to their own life. Because you ask people to fund this research, you ask people to trust you. A lot of time science gets portrayed as this really unapproachable subject and it's really not. Science is the backbone of our society, and I think getting the story out why it's exciting and relevant is part of the really important job of being a scientist nowadays. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. For the first time in human history, we have the technology to search for life and, if it’s there, to find it. Lisa Kaltenegger, professor of astronomy and director of the Carl Sagan Institute, shares what inspires her scientific curiosity, and how Cornell’s scientists work together to search for alien life in a new—and colorful—way. Kaltenegger's research focuses on the characterization of habitable worlds. Related Links About the Carl Sagan Institute Colorful life-form catalog helps discern if we’re alone (Cornell Chronicle) Speakers Lisa Kaltenegger More About astronomy planetary science physics biology What to watch next 5:11 MyPlaylist Geophysicist helps solve Oklahoma's earthquake mystery 3:44 MyPlaylist Mathematician shares 'secret universe' of patterns, beauty, interconnectedness 2:34 MyPlaylist First IVF puppies born at Cornell 3:55 MyPlaylist History professor impacts contemporary dialogue about race 4:38 MyPlaylist Solving the starfish mystery 1:21 MyPlaylist Cornell in the Conversation (series trailer) More from Cornell in the Conversation 1:45 MyPlaylist Bioluminescence can aid in the search for extra-terrestrial life 1:52:00 MyPlaylist Lunar Settlements, Lunar Science surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×