Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Department of Mathematics & Statistics Menu Search TTU Mathematics & Statistics Welcome to the Department of Mathematics and Statistics The Department of Mathematics and Statistics is one of the largest departments on campus, with 46 tenured and tenure track faculty (45 actively working in the department with one serving in upper administration: TTU President Lawrence Schovanec). In addition, the Department includes 8 postdoctoral associates (including an NSF-funded postdoc), and 9 instructors. The graduate enrollment has averaged 150 grad students per year since 2015. Of them, 100 are currently supported full time as graduate part-time instructors, teaching assistants or research assistants. To minimize your risk during the COVID-19 outbreak, we ask that you contact the Department primarily through email at math.dept@ttu.edu, or the Undergraduate Advisor or Graduate Advisor as appropriate. Calls to the Department can be made to (806) 742-2566. See the University's COVID-19 page. News The Emmy Noether High School Mathematics Day is returning. This Departmental STEM tradition encouraging young women to pursue coursework and careers in engineering, science and mathematics began in 2003 and continues this Spring. Mark your calendars for Friday, May 6th. Dr. Leif Ellingson is the Principle Investigator, and Dr. Linda Allen the co-PI for the continuance of an NSF Grant worth over $102,000, REU Site: Mathematical, Statistical, and Computational Methods in the Life Sciences Associate Math Professor Dr. Raegan Higgins and TTU President and Math Professor Lawrence Schovanec have been awarded over $2 million for the NSF grant Louis Stokes New STEM Pathways Implementation-Only Alliance: The Bridges Across Texas Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation Dr. Amanda Laubmeier's project Predator Competition in Systems with Seasonal Birth has been awarded an NSF Grant worth almost $193,000 Via the TTU IMMS, Dr. Dimitri Volchenkov has obtained a contract with AVX Aircraft worth over $308,000 An NSF Grant worth more than $237,000 has been awarded to Assistant Professor Wei Guo for project Adaptive High Order Low-Rank Tensor Methods for High-Dimensional Partial Differential Equations with Application to Kinetic Simulations Dr. Hung Tran's project Geometry of Surfaces and Four-Dimensional Manifolds has been awarded an NSF Grant worth almost $212,000 Dr. Álvaro Pámpano has received an AMS Simons Travel Grant for 2021-2022. Dr. Bhagya Athukorallage, "Dr. B" to his admiring students, received the Diamond Award for innovative teaching. Congratulations! Atul Dixit, Assistant Professor at IIT Gandhinagar and former grad student of Dr. Alex Solynin, has been awarded the 2021 Gabor Szego prize from SIAM. Congratulations to Dr. Angela Peace for receiving the President's Award for Excellence in Teaching for 2021. Congratulations to Dr.'s Angela Peace and Fangyuan Zhang for being granted tenure this February from the TTU Board of Regents. Through the efforts of Dr.'s Lindquist and Rachev, the Department is now offering a new Ph.D. track, Mathematical Finance. More News Our Vision The Texas Tech Mathematics & Statistics Department is committed to achieving significant research while providing high-quality education for our students at the undergraduate and graduate levels. We have several active areas of research. Click here for descriptions of current research topics done by our faculty, post-docs, and graduate students in the Mathematics & Statistics Department. We are passionate about our student's success. We welcome you to our department and look forward to the bright future ahead of you! Seminars & Colloquia Full Schedule of Events Available here Department of Mathematics & Statistics Address Texas Tech University, 1108 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409-1042 Phone 806.742.2566 Email math.dept@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 12, 2022 2:38 PM Department of Mathematics & Statistics About Department of Mathematics & Statistics About Back Department Department of Mathematics & Statistics About Back Overview Programs & Resources Contact Information Donations & Scholarships Helpful Links Department of Mathematics & Statistics About Back Emergency Action Plan External Resources Math IT Support Site Index People Department of Mathematics & Statistics People Back Directory Department of Mathematics & Statistics People Back Faculty & Staff Job opportunities Department of Mathematics & Statistics People Back No Open Positions Events Department of Mathematics & Statistics Events Back Calendars Department of Mathematics & Statistics Events Back Events Archived Events Red Raider Minisymposia Math Placement Exam Room reservations Department of Mathematics & Statistics Events Back Lab Math 113 and Room Math 238B Room Math 010 (Media Room) Room Math 016 (Media Room) Departmental Life Department of Mathematics & Statistics Events Back Photo Gallery Research Department of Mathematics & Statistics Research Back Faculty by Research Areas Resources Department of Mathematics & Statistics Research Back Department I.T. Support Tenure & Promotion Policies Teaching Department of Mathematics & Statistics Teaching Back Course Descriptions Department of Mathematics & Statistics Teaching Back MATH STAT Department Handbook Teaching Plan Online Courses Study Abroad Accessible Instructional Video Course Schedules Department of Mathematics & Statistics Teaching Back Current Schedules Final Exam Schedules Past Schedules Graduate Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back Application & Admissions Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back Application Process FAQ Advising & Program Overview Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back Advising M.S. Mathematics Program M.S. Statistics Program Ph.D. Program Financial Support Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back Scholarships Teaching Assistantships Student Associations Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back SIAM (facebook) Resources Department of Mathematics & Statistics Graduate Back Prelim Exam Information Resource Documents Recent Graduates Undergraduate Department of Mathematics & Statistics Undergraduate Back Advising & Program Overview Department of Mathematics & Statistics Undergraduate Back Advising B.A. Mathematics B.S. Mathematics Minors Financial Support Department of Mathematics & Statistics Undergraduate Back Scholarships Student Associations Department of Mathematics & Statistics Undergraduate Back Math Ambassadors Math Club Resources Department of Mathematics & Statistics Undergraduate Back Department Handbook Math Placement Exam Samples of Final Exams Tutoring and Study Center Online Courses Study Abroad Service Opportunities Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index