Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Department of Chemistry Search form Search Main menu Main Menu About People Graduate Undergraduate Alumni Resources Research Chemical Services Secondary menu Chemical Instrument Services Glass Shop Chemistry Stores Machine Shop You are here Home » Chemical Services Machine Shop Page 0606 Gilman Hall Hours: 7:30 a.m.-11:50 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.-4 p.m. 515-294-3430 Services The Machine Shop manufactures and repairs research equipment. They have also been known to do small woodworking projects, sheet metal parts, welding, plastic equipment, and repairing vacuum pumps. The process begins with a student or professor discussing with the Shop staff the project they're working on and what type of equipment is needed. The discussion continues on how to accomplish what's needed and what materials are needed to produce or modify the equipment. The majority of what is manufactured is not available elsewhere. Although a patent is a possibility with some of the equipment manufactured, most of the equipment made here is singularly used for a specific research project and does not generate enough interest elsewhere to warrant a patent. But, an industrious student or professor may pursue that option. One of our new capabilities is engraving. This Shop is not a "student shop", where students may use the tools and equipment, but is staffed by professionals who have a combined experience of over 80 years. The Shop accepts intramurals with a university account number - no cash transactions. Just stop in or call ahead. Following are just a few of the projects created in the Chemistry Department Machine Shop: Liquid waste separator (scientist wanted to send samples to a variety of universities and research labs) Multi-Herbicide Applicator Portable Rain Machine Simulator - to measure soil erosion Apparatus to gauge soil erosion Plastic units called "Electrophoresis" Hypodermic Needle Tester for active livestock (needles breaking, while still in livestock, prompted this research project) In Process -- a Hypodermic Needle Tester for stationary livestock Add-ons to laser equipment Personnel Reed Jensen, senior machinist, joined the machine shop at the start of the fall 2021 term. Category: Chemistry Facilities Tags: machine shop Department of Chemistry 2415 Osborn Drive 1605 Gilman Hall Ames, IA 50011-1021 chemdept@iastate.edu 515-294-6342 phone Site Index Site map Twitter Youtube Copyright © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility