Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Academics Admissions Research Global Notre Dame International Keough School of Global Affairs Education Abroad Global Network Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Keough School of Global Affairs Home › Global › Keough School of Global Affairs Founded in 2014, the Keough School of Global Affairs was the University’s first new college or school in nearly a century. It was founded to help bring research, policy development, and engagement to bear in pursuing integral human development around the world. The Keough School recognizes that the problems we face in the world are seldom narrowly confined to one policy area or even one geographic area. Rather, they are complex issues that often involve elements of economic, environmental, and/or civil policy, to name a few. The Keough School seeks to address these issues by training students for ethical professional leadership in government, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector. This training occurs with the support of nine centers and institutes that focus on holistic study and project development in specific geographic regions and the world at large. The Keough School currently offers several supplementary majors and minors for undergraduates. It also features a Master of Global Affairs program, which offers the opportunity for scholars to contribute to helping to solve some of the complex issues facing the world while they earn their degree. The school offers a variety of Ph.D. programs through its institutes as well. The Keough School welcomes engagement with people of all nationalities and religious, secular, and philosophical traditions. Keough School of Global Affairs Keough School Centers and Institutes The The Rafat and Zoreen Ansari Institute for Global Engagement with Religion is dedicated to the study of religion around the world and serves as a center of public deliberation and education through research, teaching, outreach, and interaction with religious communities and the public worldwide. The Kellogg Institute is an interdisciplinary community of scholars and students from across the University and around the world that promotes research, provides educational opportunities, and builds linkages related to two topics critical to our world—democracy and human development. The Keough–Naughton Institute for Irish Studies is a teaching-and-research institute dedicated to the study and understanding of Irish culture—in Ireland and around the world—in all of its manifestations. The Center for Civil and Human Rights strives to build a culture of rights through legal education as part of the University's commitment to living the gospel in a diverse world. The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies is one of the world’s leading centers for the study of the causes of violent conflict and strategies for sustainable peace. Kroc Institute faculty and fellows conduct interdisciplinary research on a wide range of topics related to peace and justice. The Liu Institute for Asia and Asian Studies provides a forum for integrated and multi-disciplinary research and teaching on Asia. It supports innovative projects that actively combine teaching, research, and social engagement, creating a unique model of rounded education on Asia. The McKenna Center seeks to better understand the critical role of global business in reducing poverty and inequality. The mission of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies is to enrich the intellectual culture of Notre Dame by creating an integrated, interdisciplinary home for students and faculty to explore the evolving ideas, cultures, beliefs, and institutions that shape Europe today. The Pulte Institute addresses global poverty and inequality through policy, practice, and partnership. It designs, implements, monitors, and evaluates projects and programs that promote human dignity, empowering the world’s poorest and vulnerable populations to flourish. The Rise of Populism Notre Dame experts analyze the worldwide decline of democracy Read story angle right Notre Dame International Keough School of Global Affairs Education Abroad Global Network Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit