Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Contact Us Contact Us Follow Us Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Google+ Follow Us Twitter Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us Tumblr Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Instagram Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content CIQ About Resources News News Poolside Musings Quick Tips for creating a culturally intelligent classroom for your international students What Yale tells us about race on college campuses ☰ The Cultural Intelligence Initiative@SMU What is CIQ@SMU? Dr. Maria Dixon Hall, Senior Advisor to the Provost explains the importance of Cultural Intelligence for SMU. The Ability to Strategically Communicate with Anyone, Anywhere. A revolutionary approach in higher education to ensure that every member of the Southern Methodist University community is equipped with the skills and knowledge to manage and communicate effectively in complex cultural contexts. Learn More Changing the world requires being able to learn, teach, mentor, collaborate, and work with people of a myriad of cultural identities including race, ethnicity, political ideology, gender, sexuality, and religion. CIQ@SMU works to provide the resources, skills, and knowledge to enable our faculty, staff, and students to meet the challenges of our complex cultural world. Utilizing the framework of Cultural Intelligence, our goal is for our campus to move beyond appreciating diversity to being able to effectively and authentically communicate and collaborate with colleagues from every cultural background. “Mustangs value intelligence above physical strength…They have survived for generations without human intervention because they never feared using their intelligence to change the world around them.” - Frank Hopkins The SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative Phone: 214-768-3393 Address: The Office of the President 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205 Twitter: @smuciq Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series (214) 768-3393 Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © The SMU Cultural Intelligence Initiative The Office of the Provost 6425 Boaz Lane Dallas, TX 75205, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter