Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Communication, Arts, and Media Home Career Clusters Communication, Arts, and Media Career Clusters Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Explore CAM Careers in communication, arts, and media offer opportunities to use written and verbal communication, creative expression, and diverse mediums to convey meaning and information to audiences. We invite you to explore this cluster to determine if it is a good fit for you and leverage our resources to launch your job, internship, or graduate school search. Meet Your Career Coach Our specialized Communication, Arts, and Media career coach will help you launch a job, internship, or graduate school search in your field of interest. MAKE AN APPOINTMENT Salome Miclette Key Resources Handshake Use your Handshake account to search for jobs/internships, connect with employers, find events, and more. Eagle Exchange Use your Eagle Exchange account to connect with BC alumni. Join the Communication, Arts, and Media group to network with members and participate in group discussions. Jobs + Internships Browse our jobs and internships pages to prepare to apply to CAM positions. Use our CAM resume and cover letter examples to help you get started. CAM Newsletters Update your career interests in Handshake to receive regular updates from our coaches with exclusive resources, reminders, event invites, job/internship postings, and more. Upcoming Events Communication, Arts, and Media Career Center Explore Opportunities in Communication, Arts, and Media Advertising Broadcasting (Radio/TV) Editing/Publishing Film Journalism/Writing Marketing/Sales Museums/Cultural Institutions Performing Arts Public Relations Sports Communications Visual Arts Advertising Advertising is a marketing communication that employs openly sponsored, creative messaging to promote or sell a product, service or idea. Sponsors of advertising are typically businesses wishing to promote their products or services. Types of Positions Advertising Sales Coordinator Copywriter Art Director Media Planner Account Manager Where BC Graduates Have Gone Digitas MullenLowe Hill Holliday Arnold Worldwide Jack Morton Hiring Timelines 23% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 37% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Ad Council Advertising Research Foundation AdAge Professional Associations American Advertising Federation (AAF) Association of National Advertisers (ANA) The Association for Women in Communications International Association of Business Communicators Outdoor Advertising Association of America Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Graduate School Broadcasting (Radio/TV) Broadcasting is the distribution of audio or video content that is educational, entertaining and/or news-related. There are many types of jobs in both television and radio broadcasting ranging from news anchors to engineers. Types of Positions Radio Show Reporter/Host TV News Reporter/Anchor Production Assistant Producer Studio Technician Where BC Graduates Have Gone WGBH NBCUniversal CBS News Dow Jones Turner Broadcasting System Hiring Timelines 16% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 53% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 32% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Corporation for Public Broadcasting Center for Media and Public Affairs Massachusetts Broadcasters Association Job Board Campus Resources WZBC 90.3 NEWTON BCTV Professional Associations Broadcast Education Association National Association of Broadcasters Society of Professional Journalists Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. A master's degree in journalism can increase your employability and ability to work in management positions. Graduate School Editing/Publishing Editing is a stage of the writing process in which a writer or editor strives to improve a draft, and sometimes prepare it for publication, by correcting errors and by making words and sentences clearer, more precise, and more effective whereas Publishing is the activity of making information available to the general public.by disseminating literature, music, or information. Types of Positions Proofreader Online Editor Content Editor Copy Editor Book Editor Literary Agent/Scout Where BC Graduates Have Gone Hackett Publishing Pengiun Random House Boston Magazine Conde Nast Hiring Timelines 20% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 80% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources BookJobs.com Publisher’s Marketplace Publisher's Weekly Media Bistro Campus Resources The Stylus of Boston College The Laughing Medusa Professional Associations Association of American Publishers American Booksellers Association Inside Book Publishing Small Publishers, Artists, and Writers Networks Association of Writers and Writing Programs Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Graduate School Film The film industry or motion picture industry, comprises the technological and commercial institutions of filmmaking, e.g., film production companies, film studios, cinematography, animation, film production, screenwriting, pre-production, post production, film festivals, distribution and actors, film directors and other film crew personnel. Types of Positions Actor Director Producer Screenwriter Cinematographer Gaffer Grip Composer Production Assistant Agent Where BC Graduates Have Gone Creative Talent Agency United Talent Agency Viacom Walt Disney Company NBCUniversal A24 Hiring Timelines 10% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 43% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 47% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Careersinfilm.com Massachusetts Production Coalition Production Hub Film Local Campus Resources Hollywood Eagles Art, Art History, and Film Department Arts Council Professional Associations SAG-AFTRA Directors Guild of America Producers Guild of America Women in Film & Video New England Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Some decide to pursue a Master of Fine Arts to refine their skills and elevate the quality of their work. A law degree is not necessary to become an agent, but a degree in entertainment law is helpful. Graduate School Journalism/Writing Journalism is gathering, assessing, creating, and presenting news and information. Journalistic media includes print, television, radio, and the internet. Types of Positions Reporter Freelance Writer Editor Social Media Specialist Photojournalist Copywriter Where BC Graduates Have Gone The Boston Globe The Washington Post The New York Times The Wall Street Journal Conde Naste Time Inc. Hiring Timelines 33% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 67% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Poynter Journalism Jobs New York Times Summer Internship Program Boston Globe Co-op Program Campus Resources BC Journalism The Heights The Gavel Professional Associations Society of Professional Journalists American Press Institute American Society of Newspaper Editors Asian American Journalists Association Associated Press Media Editors Association for Women in Communications Association for Women in Sports Media Association of Health Care Journalists Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. A master's degree in journalism can increase your employability and ability to work in management positions. Graduate School Marketing/Sales Marketing refers to activities undertaken by an organization to promote the buying or selling of a product or service, to consumers, or other businesses. Marketing and sales positions can be found in all industries. Types of Positions Marketing Coordinator/Manager Brand Manager Content Manager Digital Marketing Manager Email Marketing Specialist SEO/SEM Specialist Market Research Analyst Product Manager Account Coordinator/Manager Inside Sales Representative Outside Sales Representative Where BC Graduates Have Gone Amazon Google Facebook Deloitte Hubspot CJ Affiliate Gupta Media Hiring Timelines 21% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 39% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 39% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources The Ultimate Guide to Marketing Jobs Vault Guide to Marketing Jobs CSOM Marketing Guide Direct Marketing News Marketing Hire Marketing Land Sales Jobs Campus Resources Marketing Academy of Boston College Marketing Department Professional Associations American Marketing Association Association of International Product Marketing and Management Marketing Research Association Sales Management Association Search Engine Marketing Professional Organization Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. A specialized master's degree or MBA can increase your ability to work in management positions. Graduate School Museums/Cultural Institutions Work in museums and cultural institutions primarily involves overseeing collections of historic items or artwork. This industry also includes education and training specific to management of performing arts centers, libraries, historical sites, art institutes, theaters and zoos. Types of Positions Archivist Historian Curator Director Docent Technician Conservator Exhibit Designer Where BC Graduates Have Gone Christie’s Sotheby’s JFK Library Foundation Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) Institute of Contemporary Art (ICA) Hiring Timelines 100% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources New England Museum Association Internships Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) internships Isabella Stewart Gardner (ISG) Museum internships and jobs Institute of Contemporary Art (ICA) Boston internships and jobs Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) internships and jobs The Guggenheim Museums Metropolitan Museum of Art (The Met) Internships National Gallery of Art Internships Smithsonian Institution Internships Joan Hall and Mark Weil Conservation Fund Fellowship Getty Marrow Internships USAJOBS: All federal job openings, including full time jobs at federal museums like the National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Institution, are posted here Campus Resources McMullen Museum of Art Student Ambassador Program Art, Art History, and Film Department Arts Council Professional Associations Association of Art Museum Curators Association of Professional Art Advisors American Alliance of Museums Do I need to go to graduate school? Archivist, curator, and conservator positions typically require a master’s degree or above. Other entry-level positions can be obtained without a graduate degree. Graduate School Performing Arts Performing Arts are forms of creative activity that are performed in front of an audience, such as drama, music, and dance. Types of Positions Actor Musician Dancer Set, Costume or Lighting Designer Stage Manager Choreographer Technical Director Stage Director Music Director Producer Agent or Business Manager Performing Arts Critic or Reporter Where BC Graduates Have Gone Bay Colony Shakespeare Company Speakeasy Stage Company Central Square Theater Upcast Talent Hiring Timelines 50% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 50% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Stage Source New England Theater Conference University Resident Theatre Association Playbill Backstage Playwright's Center Americans for the Arts American Repertory Theatre (ART) New Repertory Theatre Huntington Theatre Company Speakeasy Stage Company Theatre Offensive Boston Playwright's Theatre Actor's Shakespeare Project Company One Nora Theatre Company Gloucester Stage Company Lyric Stage Company Turtle Lane Playhouse Underground Railway Theater Cutler Majestic Theater Campus Resources Music Department Music Outreach Theatre Department Robsham Theater My Mother's Fleabag BC Theatre Production History Brighton Dance Studios DeVoy Perspectives on Theatre Series DeVoy Springboard Grant (Study Abroad Grant) Study Abroad offered through BC Office of International Programs University College, School of Music and Theatre—Cork, Ireland King's College—London, UK Professional Associations SAG-AFTRA Association of Performing Arts Professionals American Federation of Musicians Theatre Sample Resume Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Some decide to pursue a Master of Fine Arts to refine their skills and elevate the quality of their work. A law degree is not necessary to become an agent, but a degree in entertainment law is helpful. Graduate School Public Relations Public Relations, or PR, is the practice of deliberately managing the spread of information between an individual or an organization and the public. PR may include an organization or individual gaining exposure to their audiences using topics of public interest and news items that do not require direct payment. Types of Positions Account Executive Social Media Manager Communications Manger/Director Media Relations Specialist Copywriter Publicist Speechwriter Where BC Graduates Have Gone Inkhouse Back Bay Communications McNeil, Gray, and Rice Edelman Public Relations Ten Bridge Communications Fish Consulting Hiring Timelines 56% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 44% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources BC Libguide for Advertising and Public Relations Institute for Public Relations Vault Guide to Public Relations Campus Resources Communication Department Professional Associations Public Relations Society of America International Public Relations Association The Association for Women in Communications Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Graduate School Sports Communications Sports Communications is an aspect of communication studies which specializes in the study of communication in a sports setting. Types of Positions Reporter Radio Show Reporter/Host TV News Reporter/Anchor Editor Producer Freelance Writer Photojournalist Production Assistant Account Manager Where BC Graduates Have Gone ESPN NBC Sports WEEI Sports Radio Network Hiring Timelines 16% received job offers during fall semester of senior year 53% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 32% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources MLB Diversity Fellowship NCAA Careers Work in Sports ESPN Careers Campus Resources The Heights Boston College Athletic Communications Sports Business Society Professional Associations Associated Press Sports Editors Association for Women in Sports Media National Sports Media Association Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. A master's degree in journalism or sports communications can increase your employability and ability to work in management positions. Graduate School Visual Arts The visual arts are art forms such as painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture, ceramics, photography, video, filmmaking, design, crafts, and architecture. Many artistic disciplines involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Types of Positions Art Director Book Illustrator Technical/Production Illustrator Exhibitions Designer Freelancer Graphic Designer Artist Educator Website Designer Hiring Timelines 50% received job offers during spring semester of senior year 50% received job offers after graduation Outcomes Online Resources Art Search New York Foundation for the Arts Alliance of Artists Communities College Art Association Opportunities Hire Culture Association of Arts Administration Educators Jobs Arts Intern ArtJobs Americans for the Arts Campus Resources Art, Art History, and Film Department Arts Council Professional Associations The National Association of Independent Artists College Art Association American Institute of Graphic Arts Do I need to go to graduate school? A graduate degree is not required for most entry-level positions. Some decide to pursue a Master of Fine Arts to refine their skills and elevate the quality of their work. A master's degree is generally required to work in education. Graduate School Now Playing Learn About Arts Administration Check out this alumni panel discussion between arts administrators. Learn what a career in arts administration entails and what it takes to succeed in the field. Panelists represent a variety of different organizations, including museums, foundations, and schools. Meet a Few CAM Employers Check out this panel discussion between representatives from four CAM employers, including Echo Lake Entertainment, Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, New Repertory Theatre, and Oglivy. Learn tips to get noticed and hired. From the Career Center Blog Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Communication, Arts & Media The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating February 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Warner Bros. This past week I had the pleasure to talk to Niamh Diver, MCAS class of ‘23, about her experience with January 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam What Can I Do With an Art History Degree? Did you know that someone with an art history degree can pursue a career in consulting, media, law or a November 03, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam A Day in the Life as a Sales Coordinator at OUTFRONT Media We all have ideas about the advertising world – whether it is driving past billboards on the highway or watching October 07, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Five Ways to Make the Most Out of Mentorship Having a mentor is a great way to build your network and receive valuable guidance. Mentors can be found through September 10, 2021 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Summer Internships in Communication, Arts & Media The Eagle Internship Fellowship empowers students with financial aid to take unpaid internships and explore their career interests by eliminating February 14, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam 6 Employers Give You Their Career Fair Advice Registration for the Boston College Career Fair opens to all students on February 7th. As you think about how to January 24, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam Internship Spotlight: Warner Bros. This past week I had the pleasure to talk to Niamh Diver, MCAS class of ‘23, about her experience with January 18, 2022 BCCareerCenterTeam VIEW MORE POSTS VIEW LESS POSTS View Blog Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College