Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs You are here Home > For Patients > Video Visits Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Video Visits Make an Appointment Our team of dedicated access representatives is here to help you make an appointment with the specialists that you need. 212-305-5098 Request an Appointment Online Telehealth Services Staying at home whenever possible is important to help minimize your risk for COVID-19. That’s why we are offering you virtual visits with your doctor from the comfort and safety of your own home that give you the care you need. Virtual visits are convenient for you and can help keep you safe. Your doctor will be able to see you and give you the same level of expert care that you would have in an office visit. There are some visits, however, including therapies, minor procedures, and more that may still require you to come in person. You should check with your doctor about what is the best appointment type for you. Learn About How We Are Keeping You Safe and Healthy Throughout COVID-19 Schedule a virtual visit To schedule a virtual visit, please call your doctor’s office, contact our New Patient Access Center at 212-305-5098, or request an appointment online. More Information About Making an Appointment What do you need for a virtual visit? A scheduled appointment A smartphone or tablet A strong internet connection A Connect patient portal account (Already have an account but can’t find your info? Recover your info.) The latest version of the MyChart app [Google Play | Apple Store] Are virtual visits covered by insurance? Yes, your virtual visit should be covered by your insurance provider, but you can call your doctor’s office directly to confirm your exact coverage. Tips for an effective visit Make sure you are in a well-lit room with a strong internet signal Check that you have the latest version of the MyChart app on your phone or tablet Join your video visit 15 minutes before your visit is due to start Video Visit Instructions in English (PDF) Instrucciones de Visita de Video (PDF) Technical support For any questions or additional support, please call Connect Technical Support at 646-962-4200 or visit MyConnectNYC.org Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top