Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Sara Cronquist Exhibitions The School of Art galleries in Green Hall provide a year-round forum for the exhibition of work by students, faculty, and special guests in the four graduate departments of the School and the undergraduate program. During exhibitions, Green Hall Gallery at 1156 Chapel Street is typically open to the public but due to COVID-19, it will remain open only to the School of Art and Yale communities until further notice. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Find past School of Art exhibitions in our developing archive > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody and here in, Graphic Design MFA Thesis Exhibition May 13 – 23, 2022 in Green Hall Gallery Reception: Saturday, May 21, 5-7PM and here in sketches a path between remnants of projects and experiences—from materials and tools, to audio recordings of collective and personal spaces, to the contexts in which work is encountered. Artifacts will accumulate in the gallery throughout the duration of the exhibition, distilling activity to form. From May 13 through May 23, the Graphic Design MFA 2022 Thesis Exhibition will feature work by Alvin Ashiatey, Jessica Flemming, Han Gao, Yuan Gao, Miguel Gaydosh, Rok Hudobivnik, Kathryn-kay Johnson, Mengjie Liu, Ana Lobo, Kang Ma, Churong Mao, Hannah Tjaden, Betty Wang, Mike Tully, and Immanuel Yang. Due to COVID-19 precautions, the physical exhibition in Green Hall Gallery is viewable only to current members of the Yale community. An accompanying website with photo documentation will be made available online at andhere.in > Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Visiting During the Spring 2022 semester, exhibitions in Green Hall Gallery exhibitions are open only to current members of the School of Art and Yale communities, including faculty, staff, and students. Green Hall Gallery open hours: Monday–Friday, 9AM-6PM All individuals, regardless of vaccination status, are required to wear masks inside the exhibition and indoors while on campus. Members of the Yale community will be required to swipe their active Yale ID at the entrance to 1156 Chapel Street to enter the gallery space. Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Spring 2022 in Green Hall Gallery Exhibition schedule ⇢ Painting/Printmaking Group 1: Jan 31 – Feb 10, 2022 Painting/Printmaking Group 2: Feb 22 – Mar 4, 2022 Sculpture: Mar 26 – Apr 5, 2022 Undergraduate Thesis: Apr 11 – 16, 2022 Photography: Apr 26 – May 1, 2022 Graphic Design: May 13 – 23, 2022 Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Background image Scronquist of Green Hall Gallery 1156 Chapel St Editor details Last edited by: Sara Cronquist Edit access: Everybody See also: Visiting Recollections of Josef Albers at Yale, a film by Anoka Faruqee, Director of Graduate Studies in Painting and Printmaking © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Sara Cronquist