Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Master of Science (MS) in Computer Science Discover Innovative Uses for Computation at One of the Nation’s Top Engineering Schools Request Info Program at a Glance Program Master College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science 2 Years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $369.65 per credit hour $1,194.05 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Expand the Reach of Science and Technology to Benefit the Economy and Society The Master of Science in Computer Science program provides you with an in-depth education geared toward meeting the needs of business and industry in Florida and throughout the United States. Your coursework will cover a broad background in the areas of programming systems and languages, computer architecture and computer science theory while specializing in a research area. Various research interests of the computer science faculty include computer and network security, database management systems, modeling and simulation, hardware/software co-design, programming languages, VLSI systems, among many others. The program’s long and respected history produces graduates with a high level of competency in understanding, applying and enunciating the modern concepts, principles, methods and theories necessary for the design and implementation of computing systems. Upon graduating, you’ll have exhibited breadth as well as depth of capability involving both theoretical aspects of computer science and practical considerations of computing. Computer Science (MS) – Accelerated BS to MS The Accelerated BS to MS program in Computer Science allows highly qualified UCF undergraduate majors in Computer Science to take graduate-level courses that will count toward their MS degree while completing their BS degree program. Request Information Highlights CSRankings.org ranks UCF’s Department of Computer Science in the top 50 for publishing in the most selective computer science conferences. UCF’s computer science graduate program ranked No. 82 in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report. Job growth for computer science grads is expected to exceed 12 percent over the next decade. Computer science graduates earn an annual average salary of $103K nationwide. Application Deadlines Fall July 1 Spring December 1 International January 15 (Fall) or July 1 (Spring) Ready to get started? Apply Today Course Overview Advanced Computer Architecture Learn about modern processor design, instruction-level parallelism, thread-level parallelism, data-level parallelism, memory hierarchy and I/O. Design and Analysis of Algorithms Classification of algorithms, e.g., recursive, divide-and-conquer, greedy, etc. Data Structures and algorithm design and performance. Time and space complexity analysis. View All MS in Computer Sciences Courses You’ll Take Computer Science Skills You'll Learn Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions. Design and implement a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline. Evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program’s discipline. Career Opportunities Cyber/Information Security Engineer Computer Scientist Chief Information Officer Computer Systems Engineer/Architect Software Developer/Engineer Database Administrator Network Engineer/Architect Software QA Engineer/Tester Admission Requirements While an undergraduate degree in computer science is desirable, it is not required. Applicants without a strong undergraduate background in Computer Science must demonstrate an understanding of the material covered in upper-division undergraduate courses listed under the articulation section of the curriculum information in the catalog. Applicants may choose to demonstrate their knowledge of these courses by taking these courses as non-degree seeking and scoring “B” or better in all of them: EEL 4768C Computer Architecture COP 4020 Programming Languages I COP 4600 Operating Systems COT 4210 Discrete Computational Structures Applications are accepted for the fall and spring semesters. All required materials must be submitted prior to the application deadline. Please note that faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. Request Information In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirements, applicants to this program must provide: Official transcripts Resume Letters of recommendation (encouraged by not required) Request Information Computer Science News Check out more stories Science & Technology UCF Researchers Awarded $4.5 Million to Develop Non-GPS Location Finder The Army Research Lab-funded project will help ground vehicles navigate complex terrain when GPS is not available by using computer vision and artificial intelligence. Science & Technology UCF Cybersecurity Researcher Leads DARPA-Funded Project to Help Reduce Fraud The complex nature of corporate relationships provides an opportunity for criminals, adversaries, and others to hide illegal activities in plain sight. Colleges & Campus UCF Programming Team Advances to World Finals The UCF team beat out teams like Stanford, Harvard and CalTech to continue its streak of qualifying for the World Finals every year during the… Science & Technology Disagreement May Be a Way to Make Online Content Spread Faster, Further The finding comes from an examination of posts labeled controversial on social news aggregation site Reddit. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Masters Computer Science (MS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management Request Information × Enter your information below to receive more information about the Computer Science (MS) program offered at UCF. Loading... × The Master of Science in Computer Science program produces graduates with a high level of competency in understanding, applying, and enunciating the modern concepts, principles, methods, and theories necessary for the design and implementation of computing systems. The Master of Science in Computer Science program provides students with an in-depth education geared toward meeting the needs of business and industry in Florida and throughout the United States. The program's goal is to produce graduates with a high level of competency in understanding, applying, and enunciating the modern concepts, principles, methods, and theories necessary for the design and implementation of computing systems. Students in the program receive a broad background in the areas of programming systems and languages, computer architecture, and computer science theory while specializing in a research area. Research interests of the computer science faculty include affective computing, applied perception, bioinformatics, computational biology, computational geometry, computer and network security, computer architecture, computer forensics, computer graphics, computer networks, image processing, computer vision, cryptography, data compression, database management systems, data mining, design and analysis of algorithms, evolutionary computation, genetic algorithms, graph theory, hardware/software co-design, machine learning, mixed and virtual reality, mobile computing, modeling and simulation, multimedia systems, natural language processing, neural networks, parallel and distributed processing, performance evaluation, programming languages, quantum computing, semantic web, software agents, software engineering, and VLSI systems. The program has a long and respected history, having conferred MS degrees since 1968. Students successfully completing this program will have exhibited breadth as well as depth of capability involving both theoretical aspects of computer science and practical considerations of computing. The Computer Science MS program offers both a thesis and nonthesis option with each option requiring a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond the bachelor's degree. At least half of these hours must be at the 6000-level. Both options require 12 credit hours of required core courses and thesis students must take 12 credit hours of electives and a minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis. Nonthesis students must take 18 credit hours of electives and complete a culminating experience as determined by the program's graduate committee. Total Credit Hours Required: 30 Credit Hours Minimum beyond the Bachelor's Degree Program Prerequisites An undergraduate degree in Computer Science is desirable but not required. Applicants without a strong undergraduate background in Computer Science must demonstrate an understanding of the material covered in the following upper-division undergraduate courses: EEL 4768C Computer Architecture COP 4020 Programming Languages I COP 4600 Operating Systems COT 4210 Discrete Computational Structures Degree Requirements Required Courses 12 Total Credits Complete all of the following Complete the following: CDA5106 - Advanced Computer Architecture (3) COT5405 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms (3) Both CDA 5106 and COT 5405 must be completed with a B or better. Students earning a B- or below will have to repeat the course(s) until they earn a B or better. Research Pair 6 Total Credits Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Any approved pair of Computer Science courses from a single research area that includes at least one 6000-level course (See Program Details below for Examples of Approved Pairs) Elective Courses 12 Total Credits Earn at least 12 credits from the following types of courses: All students, both thesis and nonthesis, are required to complete 12 credit hours of electives that are selected after consultation with the student's adviser. Thesis/Nonthesis Option 6 Total Credits Complete 1 of the following Thesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: XXX 6971 Thesis (prefix determined by disciplinary area of your thesis adviser, e.g., CAP, CDA, CEN, COP or COT 6971) Six credits of thesis are required with the professor who directs the student's thesis. The thesis experience is expected to span two semesters. Thesis students who are full-time must continue to enroll in 3 credit hours of thesis course work until the thesis requirement is satisfied, even if it goes beyond the minimum of 6 credit hours of thesis. Students are required to prepare and defend a formal thesis in accordance with university requirements. Nonthesis Option Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: Additional Elective Coursework. The nonthesis option requires at least 6 additional credit hours of electives beyond the 12 credit hours of electives described above. In addition, nonthesis students are required to engage in a culminating experience as determined by the program's graduate committee. Students in the nonthesis option may not take more than 6 credit hours of independent study (6908) and/or directed research (XXX 6918). Additional Requirements 0 Total Credits At least half of the credit hours of both thesis and nonthesis students must be at the 6000 level. Furthermore, at least two 6000-level Computer Science formal courses (6 credit hours) must be taught by EECS faculty, exclusive of independent study and directed research and a total of 24 credit hours of formal courses must be earned exclusive of thesis. Approval may be granted for no more than 6 credit hours of electives to be taken outside of Computer Science, and such approval must occur prior to taking these outside courses. Grand Total Credits: 30 Application Requirements For information on general UCF graduate admissions requirements that apply to all prospective students, please visit the Admissions section of the Graduate Catalog. Applicants must apply online. All requested materials must be submitted by the established deadline. In addition to the general UCF graduate application requirement, applicants to this program must provide: One official transcript (in a sealed envelope) from each college/university attended. Official, competitive GRE score taken within the last five years. Resume 2 Letters of recommendation Faculty members may choose to conduct face-to-face or telephone interviews before accepting an applicant into their research program. All application materials must be submitted by the appropriate deadline listed below. Application Deadlines Computer Science MS *Fall Priority Fall Spring Summer Domestic Applicants Jan 15 Jul 1 Dec 1 International Applicants Jan 15 Jan 15 Jul 1 *Applicants who plan to enroll full time in a degree program and who wish to be considered for university fellowships or assistantships should apply by the Fall Priority date. Financial Information Graduate students may receive financial assistance through fellowships, assistantships, tuition support, or loans. For more information, see the College of Graduate Studies Funding website, which describes the types of financial assistance available at UCF and provides general guidance in planning your graduate finances. The Financial Information section of the Graduate Catalog is another key resource. Fellowship Information Fellowships are awarded based on academic merit to highly qualified students. They are paid to students through the Office of Student Financial Assistance, based on instructions provided by the College of Graduate Studies. Fellowships are given to support a student's graduate study and do not have a work obligation. For more information, see UCF Graduate Fellowships, which includes descriptions of university fellowships and what you should do to be considered for a fellowship. University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida