Skip to main content Boise State News Home Search Menu Boise Global Navigation Apply Visit Give Menu Ready to take the next step? Plan your virtual visit. Search Search All Boise State Boise State News Only Boise State News Podcasts Contact Us More section menu items Boise State News News Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email News for the Campus Community New College of Education dean named May 4, 2022 Boise State University has named James Satterfield Jr. as the new dean of the College of Education. James Satterfield Jr. is the new dean of the College of Education “It is my distinct honor and privilege to join the Bronco family and serve as your next dean of the College of Education,” Satterfield said. “We will continue the great work already happening on campus and in the college. And as I look to the future, I know our work will be centered on contributing to the needs of our communities and the state of Idaho.” Since 2020, Satterfield has led the Department of Educational Foundations, Leadership, and Technology at Auburn University. He previously served as department head of Counseling, Leadership and Special Education (2016-2020) at Missouri State University, program coordinator for the Ph.D. in Higher Education program at Clemson University (2009-11). “Our search reached out across the country and brought in excellent candidates with national reputation and reach,” said Dr. Marlene Tromp, president. “The college was impressed by Dr. Satterfield’s experience and the vision he offered, which aligns brilliantly with our strategic plan, Blueprint for Success. He will be an incredible addition to education in the state and to our university leadership.” “I am excited to welcome Dr. Satterfield to Boise State University. Under his leadership I am confident the College of Education will be a key contributor in fulfilling our vision of being a premier student-success driven research university innovating for statewide and global impact,” said John Buckwalter, provost. “I would also like to express my sincere thanks to Dr. Jennifer Snow for her service and steady leadership as interim dean.” Jennifer Snow has served as interim dean of the College of Education since June 2019. Satterfield earned his Doctor Education from Eastern Michigan University, a Master’s in Gifted Education from Norfolk State University, and a Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology from Norfolk State. His research agenda is the social and political context of intercollegiate athletics, as well as the social, metaphorical, symbolic, and institutional features within p-20 educational systems. He currently serves as lead editor for the Journal for the Study of Sports and Athletes in Education and is the former Associate Editor of The Sable Journal of Health and Human Development. He was also the lead editor of the first ever ASHE Reader on Sports and Athletics in Higher Education and the co-author of Black Women Athletes and the Performance of Hyper-Femininity. As a former high school special education teacher, Dr. Satterfield believes deeply in supporting communities by developing family efficacy through education. Share This Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share through Email Newer Posts Older Posts Office of Communications and Marketing communications@boisestate.edu (208) 426-1577 Alumni and Friends Center Secondary Navigation myBoiseState Safety, Security and Support Career Opportunities Boise State Public Radio Albertsons Library Transportation and Parking Partner with Us Morrison Center Alumni Bronco Shop and Bookstore University Administration ExtraMile Arena Broncos Logo Athletics Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Youtube Accessibility Privacy Classroom Concerns Policies Contact Boise State © 2022 All Rights Reserved. Boise State University