Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content News Contact Us Experts Latest News Latest News 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Broadcast Studio Research ☰ Research SMU News Research 16 SMU Students Named Fulbright Semi-Finalists 16 SMU Students Named Fulbright Semi-Finalists February 28, 2022 DALLAS (SMU) – Sixteen SMU students representing disciplines and majors from across campus have been named semi-finalists for the Fulbright Scholarship. These applications will be advancing to the final round of selection for the Fulbright Student Program for the 2022-2023 academic year. The FulbrightU.S. Student Program is the largest U.S. exchange program offering opportunities to students and young professionals for international graduate study, advanced research, university teaching, and primary and secondary school teaching worldwide. The program currently awards approximately 2,000 grants annually in all fields of study, and operates in more than 140 countries worldwide. With these 16 students, SMU continues a strong trend of increasing Fulbright semi-finalist numbers over the past five years, including 20 semi-finalists from the 2021-2022 cycle. The seven SMU undergraduates and nine graduate students named semi-finalists represent Cox School of Business, Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences, Lyle School of Engineering, Meadows School of the Arts and Simmons School of Education and Human Development. Those selected as finalists will be notified later this spring, with grantees receiving eight to ten months of funding to support their studies, research, or teaching abroad. The SMU semi-finalists are: Zena Amran (graduate, Simmons School) – Spain, English Teaching Assistant Award Laura Bell (graduate, Lyle School) – Andorra, English Teaching Assistant Award Xxavier Carter (graduate alumnus, Meadows School) – Norway, Arts Award in Installation Art Dani Ezor (graduate, Meadows School) – France, Study/Research Award in Art History Sydney Fitzgibbon (graduate, Meadows School) – France, Fulbright/French Government English Teaching Assistant Award Isabelle Galko (undergraduate, Dedman College) – Indonesia, English Teaching Assistant Award Austin Hickle (undergraduate, Dedman College) – South Korea, English Teaching Assistant Award Hideo Ishii-Adajar (undergraduate alumnus, Dedman College) – United Kingdom, Fulbright/University of Reading Award in Food Security Lola Jordan (graduate, Simmons School) – Netherlands, English Teaching Assistant Award Nia Kamau (undergraduate, Dedman College) – South Africa, English Teaching Assistant Award Camilla Martinez (graduate, Meadows School) – Bulgaria, Fulbright/America for Bulgaria Foundation English Teaching Assistant Award Virginia Ridley (graduate, Simmons School) – Luxembourg, English Teaching Assistant Award Evan Schumacher (undergraduate, Meadows School) – Germany, Study/Research Award in Philosophy Anna Taglioli (undergraduate, Dedman College) – Taiwan, English Teaching Assistant Award Shameka Tyler (graduate, Simmons) – Montenegro, English Teaching Assistant Award Izzah Zaheer (undergraduate, Cox) – Belgium, English Teaching Assistant Award The application for the next award cycle will open in late March, and the SMU application deadline will be in late August. Students interested in applying for a Fulbright Scholarship for the 2023-2024 academic year are strongly encouraged to contact their Fulbright Program Advisor this spring prior to the end of the academic year. Undergraduate students may contact Dr. Brandon Miller (bgmiller@smu.edu) and graduate students may contact Dr. Rachel Ball-Phillips (rmball@smu.edu). Since its inception in 1946, the Fulbright Program has provided more than 390,000 participants, chosen for their academic merit and leadership potential, with the opportunity to exchange ideas and contribute to finding solutions to shared international concerns. Over 2,200 U.S. students, artists, and early career professionals in more than 100 different fields of study are offered Fulbright Program grants each year to study, teach English, and conduct research annually in over 160 countries throughout the world. About SMU SMU is the nationally ranked global research university in the dynamic city of Dallas. SMU’s alumni, faculty and nearly 12,000 students in eight degree-granting schools demonstrate an entrepreneurial spirit as they lead change in their professions, communities, and the world. SMU News Broadcast Studio Contact Us SMU Research Blog Experts News Archives Featured News Research Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share