Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Appeals and special circumstances Menu Financial Aid Home Getting started Eligibility How need is determined Expected family contribution Net price calculator Student budgets Husky Promise Applying for aid Key dates and deadlines Application process Award process Maintain eligibility Summer quarter Types of aid Scholarships Grants Work Study Loans Childcare Assistance Program Veterans Benefits Emergency aid Emergency Food Assistance Other assistance Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Forms & resources Forms Consumer Information Glossary of Terms for Award Notifications Loan repayment Tax benefits Withdrawal and refund Financial aid code of conduct Money management Emergency Relief Fund Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund III Washington Emergency Relief Grant Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund II CARES Act FAQs Processing and Response Timelines Contact us My Financial Aid Home Student Financial Aid Receiving aid Appeals and special circumstances Receiving aid Home Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress You may submit an appeal to our office for specific circumstances. Your appeal will be reviewed by our appeals committees and you will be notified generally within 3 weeks. Exclusion of Stepparent Contribution Dependent students must provide parental information to be considered for financial aid. Stepparent information is required on your financial aid application. If you believe that a contribution should not be computed from your stepparent and you can demonstrate that you and your stepparent have not been part of the same family unit, you may appeal with our office by submitting the form (Requesting Exclusion of Stepparent Contribution) for the appropriate school year. Marital Update for Dependent Student If you originally filed your financial aid application with parent data but have since then become married, you may submit the form (Revision Request Regarding a Marital Update of a Dependent Student) for the appropriate school year. Our office will determine if it is appropriate to use your spouse’s information in determining your eligibility for financial aid rather than your parent’s information. Appeal for Independent Status Dependent students are required to provide parental information and signatures to be considered for financial aid. Aid eligibility is determined by using parent income and asset information in addition to your information. Appeals cannot be approved based solely on a parent’s unwillingness or inability to support a student’s college education or their unwillingness to provide the required information. Unusual Circumstances: If you cannot provide parent information due to unusual family circumstances, you may appeal to apply for aid without parental information. For this purpose, an unusual circumstance includes, but is not limited to, a permanent, irreconcilable break in the relationship with the parent(s) due to abuse, abandonment, or extreme mistreatment. If your appeal to apply for financial aid without parent information was approved in the last academic year you attended the UW, please complete the Reaffirmation of Independent Status form. Unaccompanied Homeless Youth: If you are an unaccompanied youth who is homeless or is self-supporting and at risk of being homeless, you may appeal to apply for aid without parental information. For this purpose, a new determination must be made each school year to classify you as an unaccompanied homeless youth. Priority Appeal: Late Application If you submitted your financial aid application after January 15, you may appeal to meet the priority date based on extraordinary circumstances. Priority Appeal: Reduced Credit Load Request If you are working with Disability Resources for Students (DRS) and will be taking a reduced credit load as an accommodation, you can request to be considered for priority funding even though you are not registered full-time. This appeal does not change your enrollment status, and certain aid programs must be prorated (reduced) even if this appeal is approved. Federal loan eligibility requires at least half-time enrollment. Students should contact their DRS coordinator to obtain the appeal form. The form needs to be submitted to your campus’ DRS office at least 3 weeks prior to the start of the quarter and your registration should match the credits indicated on the form. It would generally not be possible to review a DRS appeal after aid has disbursed for the quarter. Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal If you did not meet the satisfactory academic progress requirements because you had special circumstances you may file an appeal with our office. You will need to demonstrate unusual circumstances beyond your control that are not likely to recur in the immediate future. You will need to explain what has changed in your situation so that you will now be able to make academic progress. If approved, you will need to meet the requirements of an individual academic plan to continue to receive financial aid. Undergraduate Policy Graduate and Professional Policy Home Receiving aid Disbursement Appeals and special circumstances Request changes to your award Satisfactory academic progress Resources Applying for Financial Aid Parent Plus Loan New Borrowers of Federal Student Loans Contact us Send us a message Visit Contact us for office location, directions and mailing address. Federal School Code Our Title IV federal school code is 003798. This code is used for Seattle, Bothell and Tacoma campuses. About us Our mission is to provide educational access and opportunity for all students. We promote participation in higher education by providing programs of assistance to help bridge the gap between the cost of attending the University and the family’s own resources. We believe students from all economic backgrounds should have the opportunity to attend the University of Washington. Finances should not be a barrier to getting a world-class education. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA