COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW How to Read the Schedule of Courses Section Menu Registrar Home Links for Faculty and Staff Links for Students Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) University Catalog Semester & Academic Calendars Schedule of Courses Residency Registration Final Exam Schedule Reactivation Transcripts Certifications Degree Works (degree audit) FAQ Diplomas Granting Student Record Access to Others (Proxy) Transfer to WSU The online course schedule utilizes various codes to provide course information. The below provides information to assist you. Online Schedule CRN: This stands for “Course Reference Number.” You will need this number to register for a class - it is unique for each section and is not in any particular order within a subject area. Days of the week: M=Monday, T=Tuesday, W=Wednesday, R=Thursday, F=Friday, S=Saturday, U=Sunday. Buildings: Click here for building abbreviations. Begin/End dates are listed for all classes . To find the ACTUAL meeting dates within the dates shown, check the note in the online schedule. Notes are comments from the department that may include specific dates the class meets, location of the final exam or other important information. To find the notes, click the course title and the notes are located in the Course Descriptions tab. Waitlisting: Click here for waitlisting information. The online course search will show the waitlist max and available spaces on the waitlist. If a waitlist max is 0, that course is not using automatic waitlisting. Campus M: WSU Main S: WSU South - Harry St H: WSU Haysville - Stewart Ave W: WSU West - 37th & Maize OT: WSU Old Town AT: National Center for Aviation Training O: Other (Off-campus and internet only courses) xxx (other numbers): Various locations off-campus Instructional Method TCI: Traditional Classroom Instruction HYB: Hybrid - Combines various methods including in-person and online IIE: Instruction via Internet Only IIS: Online synchronous instruction at required days/times HYO: Online course requiring students to come to campus for exam(s) Course Attributes BG: Badge Course - A course teaching workplace skills in demand by employers. GEN ED: General Education Course - Approved course meeting the old or new (Fall 2020+) General Education requirements. FYS: First-year Seminar Course - Small class with unique topic for first-year students. OATL: Open Alternative Text - Low (under $50) textbook or other course material costs. Course has additional $10 per student course fee. OATZ: Open Alternative Text - Zero ($0) textbook or other course material costs. SI: Supplemental Instruction - Course involving weekly review sessions led by a student who has previously succeeded in the course. Meaning of Course Numbers 000-099: Noncredit Courses Anyone may enroll. No credit toward degree. 100-299: Primarily For Freshman And Sophomores No graduate credit given. 300-499: Primarily For Juniors And Seniors No graduate credit given. 500-699: Primarily For Juniors And Seniors Graduate students may enroll for graduate credit. 700-799: Primarily For Graduate Students. Level 1 (Master's Level) Upper division undergraduates may be admitted if they meet course prerequisites. 800-999: Primarily For Graduate Students Undergraduates excluded. Grade Modes S or M: Standard Letter Grades CR/NCR: Credit/No Credit Only S/U: Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory Only G: Badge/No Badge Only N: No grade 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©