Covid-19: Get the latest updates here Apply to JTS Contact Campus Life Alumni Get Email Updates Donate Now Search About Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Leadership History JTS and Israel Conservative Judaism Offices & Resources Policies Accreditation Visit JTS Admissions List College Admissions Davidson School Admissions Rabbinical School Admissions Gershon Kekst Graduate School Admissions H. L. Miller Cantorial School Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Academics Academics School List College The William Davidson School The Rabbinical School The Gershon Kekst Graduate School H. L. Miller Cantorial School Faculty & Scholars Faculty & Scholars Center & Institutes Center for Pastoral Education Block / Kolker Center for Spiritual Arts The Hendel Center for Ethics and Justice Milstein Center for Interreligious Dialogue Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious & Social Studies Research Institutes Summer Programs Nishma Summer Sessions Summer Hebrew Language Courses Professional Training Professional Training CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR CLERGY The Rabbinic Training Institute (RTI) Summer Rabbinic Learning Conference Online Learning for Rabbis and Cantors FOR JEWISH EDUCATORS Day School Leadership Training Institute (DSLTI) Jewish Early Childhood Education Leadership Institute (JECELI) Ivriyon: Hebrew Immersion Institute for Day School Educators Jewish Day School Standards and Benchmarks FOR OTHER PROFESSIONALS NAASE Week of Study Community Learning Community Learning ONLINE Live Online Classes JTS Torah Online BEYOND THE CAMPUS JTS Learning in Your Community Courses and Curricula LEARNING EVENTS Public Lectures and Events FOR 8TH-12TH GRADERS Prozdor Teen Learning Library About The Library Letter from the Librarian Library Services The New JTS Library Library Programs and Events Library Online Exhibits Special Collections JTS Library Membership Email a Librarian News & Events News Events Academic Calendar About JTS and Israel About JTS and Israel JTS is deeply committed to strengthening the North American Jewish community’s ties to Israel and to sharing the centrality of Israel to Jewish peoplehood. We nurture these connections through study programs in Israel, rich course offerings, discussions with visiting scholars, campus activities, public events, and more. Study in Israel JTS programs in Israel ask students to engage with Israeli society in all its complexity, deepening their understanding of the country and preparing them to teach and speak effectively about Israel in our communities. Programming on Campus JTS hosts lectures, conferences, panel discussions, and cultural events that explore and celebrate Israel from many perspectives, connecting our students and community to Israel’s remarkable achievements and the issues it faces today. The public programs we organize for the community are rich and diverse, from discussions with renowned experts about topics like the Israel Defense Forces’ code of ethics to a night of music with the Israeli Chamber Project. Academic Courses and Activities Both undergraduate and graduate students can enroll in a broad range of courses relating to the State of Israel, including its history, society, and literature. A Campus Presence in Israel Just as Israel is present on the JTS campus, so too is JTS present in Israel. Our community extends all the way to Israel through the Schocken Institute for Jewish Research, our academic hub in Jerusalem where our rabbinical students study during their year in Israel and where we conduct significant research as well as host workshops and exhibits. Additionally, JTS has a few partnership programs with the Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies, allowing our students to study in Israel before continuing their studies back in New York City. Pardes, Davidson, and Rabbinical School Joint Program Program Overview Within this collaborative arrangement, a year of study at Pardes followed by a year of study at The William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education count toward one year of rabbinical studies at JTS, making the joint program a six-year rabbinical studies and master’s program instead of a seven-year endeavor. Graduates of this joint program earn a Certificate in Jewish Studies from Pardes; a Master of Arts in Jewish Education through The William Davidson School of The Jewish Theological Seminary; and rabbinic ordination from The Rabbinical School of The Jewish Theological Seminary. First year: Student participates in Pardes Experiential Educators Program at Pardes in Jerusalem, and takes online courses for MA in Jewish Education at The William Davidson School. Second year: Student completes MA in Jewish Education at The William Davidson School. Third through sixth year: Student completes studies at The Rabbinical School. Admission Requirements Students will apply to The William Davidson School and Pardes in preparation of the first two years of the program. Students will then apply to The Rabbinical School in year two in preparation for their studies in year three. Online application to both Pardes and The William Davidson School. An official transcript of academic records from all colleges and universities. Placement tests for Hebrew language and text levels. Three letters of recommendation. Personal essay. Interview. For more information about the program and how to apply, email admissions@jtsa.edu. SHARE THIS PAGE RESOURCES Current Students Faculty & Scholars CONNECT WITH US Get Email Updates Visit Give Social Media © The Jewish Theological Seminary All Rights Reserved | בית המדרש ללימודי יהדות 3080 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 Privacy Policy x Share This Page From Name(Required) From Email(Required) To Email(Required) Message