Skip to Content Menu Audiences Clemson.edu PSA CAFLS Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Research Extension About Giving Programs County Offices Who We Are Publications Resources Contact Programs Home Cooperative Extension fulfills one-third of Clemson University’s land-grant mission of research, teaching and extension by serving as the primary public service outreach arm of the University. We improve the economy, environment, and well-being of South Carolinians through the delivery of unbiased, research-based information and education. Our educational offerings cover the following: The 4-H Youth Development program empowers youth to become healthy, productive, and contributing members of society. The Agribusiness program provides information and education on the use of business and economic principles for making decisions involving agriculture, natural resources, and communities. The Agricultural Education program provides educational programs for both youth and adults in agriculture, food and natural resources The Agronomic Crops program provides information on crop production that enables row crop producers to improve the sustainability of their operations. EFNEP delivers practical, hands-on nutrition education in four core areas: diet quality and physical activity, food resource management, food safety, and food security. The Food Systems and Safety program team provides educational information related to food systems (processing, packaging, distribution, and consumption of food) and food safety for the food industry and consumers. The Forestry and Wildlife Resources program provides information to improve the quality and economic potential of land, timber, wildlife, and other natural resource pursuits. The Horticulture program provides educational resources to improve the horticulture industry, communities, and quality of life for consumers. The Livestock and Forages program provides educational resources and programming to educate animal agriculture and forage producers. The Rural Health program focuses on health and nutrition, including topics related to nutrition, physical activity, and stress management for disease prevention, disease self-management, and overall quality of life through wellness. The Water Resources program utilizes the expertise of faculty, agents, and staff in providing information that affects the availability and quality of water resources. Clemson Extension agents are located in all 46 counties and at the university's six Research and Education Centers. Strategic Plan Accomplishments Advancement Council SC Botanical Garden Garrison Arena Clemson University Cooperative Extension Service offers its programs to people of all ages, regardless of race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or family status and is an equal opportunity employer. Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson Cooperative Extension Clemson, SC Contact Us Emergency Preparedness Web Accessibility For Employees Page Update Request