Skip to site alert. Skip to content College of Dental Medicine Students Alumni Faculty Giving Contact Us Search About Us About Us Our Mission History Leadership and Administration Board of Advisors Global Dean's Council News Diversity Community Outreach Global Initiatives Support the College of Dental Medicine Events Calendar Contact Us Columbia Visiting Professorship Program CDM Publications Education Education DDS Program Advanced Standing Program for Foreign Trained Dentists Postdoctoral and Residency Programs Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Global Programs Visits & Externships Continuing Education Academic Sections/Divisions Academic Calendars Research Research Research Areas Research Labs Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Teaching Clinics Patient Resources COVID-19 Safety ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Our Doctors Our Services Our Locations Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Choose between ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry and our affordable Dental Clinics. Para Español, haga clic aquí. Explore Your Options Events News You are here Home > Research > Research Labs Research Areas Research Labs Regenerative Engineering Laboratory TMJ Biology and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory Dr. Yiping Han's Laboratory Dr. Fatemeh Momen-Heravi's Laboratory Dr. Panos N. Papapanou's Laboratory Dr. Wadhwa and Dr. Chen's Laboratory Research Centers Research Faculty Clinical Trials Research Resources Student Research First International Symposium of Fusobacteria Research Labs The College of Dental Medicine supports research and innovation with state-of-the-art laboratories that provide a place for our scientists and their teams to conduct ground-breaking investigations. Dr. Momen-Heravi Lab The Momen-Heravi lab conducts immunology research with applications in periodontics, cancer, and diabetes. TMJ Biology and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory Led by Dr. Mildred Embree, DMD, PhD, research at the Laboratory of TMJ Biology and Regenerative Medicine focuses on TMJ fibrocartilage biology disease, and regenerative medicine. Dr. Panos N. Papapanou's Laboratory Current research of the Papapanou team focuses on understanding periodontitis pathobiology and the role of periodontal infection/inflammation as a systemic health stressor. Dr. Wadhwa and Dr. Chen's Laboratory Research at Dr. Sunil Wadhwa and Dr. Jing Chen's Laboratory concentrates on two main areas: 1) the biology of tooth movement and 2) sexual dimorphism of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) diseases. Dr. Yiping Han's Laboratory Research in the Han laboratory focuses on the interactions of the vast population of microbes that inhabit various surfaces of the body and their human hosts. Regenerative Engineering Laboratory (Lee Lab) Led by Dr. Chang Hun Lee, PhD, research at the Regenerative Engineering Laboratory is focused on musculoskeletal and craniofacial tissue regeneration Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Education Research Student Life Alumni Faculty Contact Us Intranet Columbia University College of Dental Medicine 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Back to top