Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home About The Innovation Imperative FAQ Funding opportunities Roundtable Contacts Programs Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Global Innovation Exchange Colleges and schools UW Medicine Incubators and accelerators Internships and fellowships Find a mentor Classes and clubs Events Upcoming events Autumn Quarter Winter Quarter Spring Quarter Ongoing events Spaces Makerspaces CoMotion Labs GIX Prototyping Labs Other facilities Startups Startup portfolio Success stories Investment and licensing opportunities Work with UW Innovation Spaces From makerspace to incubators, UW offers spaces, resources and connections to help student, faculty, and community entrepreneurs create and grow their big idea. Makerspaces UW offers a number of different makerspaces with tools and resources for students and faculty to build and prototype their next great idea. Make the most of a social, multidisciplinary, and collaborative environment that connects users with UW’s creative community. The Mill The Mill View Profile × The Mill The MILL, located in McCarty Hall, is a hands-on workspace where the UW community comes together, both formally and informally, to imagine, discover, innovate and responsibly create. Learn More AREA 01 AREA 01 View Profile × AREA 01 Area 01 is a community-focused interdisciplinary learning destination featuring a maker space, music and video labs and a gaming area in Maple Hall. Learn More The 8 The 8 View Profile × The 8 Located in McMahon Hall, The 8 is a multi-use community center where students can create in the makerspace, hit the books in the study lounge, or play in the games area. Learn More Collaboratory UW Bothell Collaboratory UW Bothell View Profile × Collaboratory UW Bothell The UW Bothell Makerspace is a creative environment with the equipment needed for curricular and co-curricular maker endeavors. Located on the first floor of Discovery Hall, the Makerspace is a free resource for students, faculty, and staff. Learn More CoMotion Labs CoMotion Labs provides a multi-industry incubation environment for early-stage startups with a focus on UW spinoffs. From critical infrastructure (desks, dry benches, wet lab space, and prototyping capabilities) to just-in-time learning, mentoring, and networking, CoMotion Labs nurtures company growth and enables success. Learn more GIX Prototyping Labs The GIX Prototyping Labs provide learners with the tools and support needed to turn concepts into tangible prototypes. The GIX Prototyping Labs offer state-of-the-art, industrial-grade prototyping equipment, freely available to the UW community and accessible to others through memberships. Supported by expert staff, the Labs enable graduate students, industry professionals, staff, and faculty to work and learn from one another in a shared, cutting-edge learning environment. Learn more Other facilities Washington Clean Energy Testbeds A single-stop venue that offers open access to advanced capabilities for prototyping, testing, and demonstrating novel, zero-emission technologies. Learn More UW Reality Lab This lab brings together an interdisciplinary team of UW faculty, graduate students, and undergraduates working in 3D computer vision and perception, object recognition, graphics, game science and education, distributed computing, stream processing, databases and computer architecture, and privacy and security. Learn More Washington Nanofabrication Facility (WNF) WNF at the University of Washington is a micro and nanotechnology user facility that supports fabrication efforts for basic and applied research, advanced research and development, and prototype production. Learn More AboutProgramsClasses/ClubsEventsSpacesStartupsWork with UW University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA