Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Student Financial Services International Student Payment Instructions International Payments (non-U.S. accounts) Clemson University has partnered with Flywire and PayMyTuition to offer an innovative and streamlined way to make a payment from your home country. Either method will allow posting a payment into your iROAR account to be fast and straightforward. You also will be able to track where your payment is in the transfer process via a dashboard and be notified via email when it is deposited into our account. Make Flywire Payment Make PayMyTuition Payment Flywire Payment Information Founded by a former international student, Flywire’s mission is to save international students and their families money that would otherwise be lost on bank fees and unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Go to Flywire to begin the payment process. Flywire payments should be for the amount due in iROAR only. We are unable to accept excess funds. Select the country from which funds will be coming and the payment amount in U.S. dollars you wish to make to Clemson. In most cases, the US dollar amount will be converted into your home country at preferential exchange rates, translating into savings for you. After providing some basic information, you will book the transaction and be instructed on how to send your funds through Flywire from your home country bank account. Flywire will then send the U.S. dollar amount to Clemson, credited to your iROAR account. You will receive an email confirmation receipt. Flywire has a dedicated customer service team reachable via chat, Skype, email and phone to answer your questions at any time. PayMyTuiton Payment Information With PayMyTuition, you can pay your tuition payments from any bank, in any country, in any currency at better than bank exchange rates. PayMyTuition is fast, simple, and cost-effective. Go to PayMyTuition to begin the payment process. PayMyTuition payments should be for the amount due in iROAR only. We are unable to accept excess funds. Additional Information is available on the PayMyTuition website, including frequently asked questions. You can also check out these step-by-step PDFs provided in various languages. Arabic Traditional Chinese Simplified Chinese Dutch English Farsi French Bernese German German Hindi Japanese Korean Portuguese Punjabi Spanish Swedish Turkish Vietnamese PayMyTuition customer support information Call 1.855.663.6839 (toll-free) or through one of their local country contact numbers. You can also reach PayMyTuition Support at support@paymytuition.com or through their support page. No matter what time zone you are in, you will have a dedicated customer support team available to you through live chat, email and phone to answer any of your questions and help you make your payment. Home Tuition and Fees Paying Your Bill Authorized User/Parent Adjustments 1098-T Non-Enrolled Collections FAQ Contact Us Orientation Resources Related Links Office of the Executive Vice President for Finance and Operations Academic Success Center Financial Aid Housing and Dining Parking Services Tiger 1 Card Registrar's Office Academic Calendar Graduate School Office of Global Engagement Study Abroad Student Insurance Information Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram