Employer Recruiting Policies - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to UCS - University Career Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search University Career Services Home About Us Staff Degrees Conferred by Semester Graduation Survey Room Request Form Event Calendar Students Get Resume Support Meet with a Counselor Career Resources Attend an Event Student Employment Job Scam Reporting and Resources Student Success Stories Earn a Leadership Award First-Gen Resources Request a Presentation Graduate & Professional Student Resources Alumni Recent Graduates Experienced Alumni Alumni Resources Upcoming Alumni Events Subscribe to Alumni Career Services (ACS) UH Recruitment Series Employers Recruit at UH Become a Sponsor Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Faculty/Staff Meet your Campus Liaison! Request a Presentation Hire a Student Employee View Faculty and Staff Resources Families UH Virutal Education Support Program Cougar Pathway Giving UH Home UCS - University Career Services Employers Recruiting Policies Employers Recruit at UH Create an Account Post a Job or Internship UH Career Fairs College Directory Employer Resources Recruiting Policies On-Campus Interviews Report Hiring Efforts Employer Summit Employer Recruiting Policies University Career Services has developed the following policies to ensure that University of Houston students and alumni are treated fairly and are being recruited for viable positions. Employers recruiting at the University of Houston are expected to abide by and adhere to the employment rules and regulations of the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principals for Professional Practice, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Fair Labor Standards Act, and the Texas Workforce Commission. Please, view our policy list below: Cougar Pathway Use Policies Job Scams Account Registration Policies Job Posting Policies On-Campus Recruiting Policies Event Policies Third-Party Recruiting Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Release of Student Information and FERPA Policies Selection by Citizen or National Origin Policy Student and Employer Guidelines These policies have been updated and will be effective August 16, 2021. We reserve the right to change or modify any of the policies listed below, at any time. Article I. Cougar Pathway Use Policy Cougar Pathway is a service offered at the discretion of the University of Houston, University Career Services (UCS) to both job seekers and employers free of charge. UCS reserves the right in its sole discretion to refuse access to employers at any time. Employers and students are advised to use caution and encouraged to request reference information as needed to establish qualifications, credentials, and conditions of employment. Article II. Job Scams There has been an increase in fraudulent and illegal job scams on college campuses. University Career Services takes fraudulent claims very seriously. A website has been created for students to report job scams as well as provide resources and tips for remaining safe. In an effort to reduce the possibility of fraudulent employers or positions, we review every employer registration and job posting based on the requirements below. Additionally, please note: Postings for positions that require at the time of application, personal information such as bank and social security numbers, or photos of the applicants are not allowed. Postings for positions that pay in cash, or require a candidate to make a financial investment, or to pay a fee prior to employment, or to recruit other students for a financial incentive, are not allowed. Article III. Account Registration Policies University Career Services reserves the right to terminate an employer account for misrepresented employment opportunities, and the violation of UCS policies and procedures, the NACE Principals for Professional Practice, and all federal and state employment laws. If you have any questions regarding our decision to decline your registration in Cougar Pathway, please contact hireuh@uh.edu An employer seeking to create a Cougar Pathway account must abide by the following policies: Section 3.01 Contact information Employers must provide complete, accurate, and verifiable information. This includes full name and company email. We must be able to connect the registration contact to the company through an internet search. Section 3.02 Website Employers must have an active, error-free, functioning website. Websites must be professional and written in the English language. The website must include: Contact information, physical location address, an “about” or “overview” of the organization and clickable/active links (including social media links). Section 3.03 Email Address Employers must use an email address that is connected to their business. Employers listing Gmail, Hotmail or Yahoo emails will be not be approved. The email address should have the organization name after the “@” sign or include the company name or abbreviation. The contact name should be included in the email address. Employers must use the same email for the job posting. Section 3.04 Location Employers must provide a physical, verifiable address that is not a private home or residence. Virtual employers may provide a P.O. Box for location purposes. We reserve the right to ask for an additional address for verification. Section 3.05 Start-ups or small companies Start-ups will be evaluated on a case by case basis. Section 3.06 Headquarters Employers with headquarters out of the US will be vetted extensively and potentially, denied. We will ask additional questions regarding registration and discuss the types of employment opportunities being provided. Section 3.07 Political Campaigns Employer Registration Political campaigns must have a physical, verifiable address, such as a campaign headquarters office. Virtual campaign offices will not be approved. The campaign must also have a functioning website and it must include contact information and a career or employment page (volunteer page does not count). Section 3.08 Brand Ambassadors/Fee-Based Programs Employers requiring interns or employees to market/promote or create/develop free or fee-based programs, products, services, events and/or collect student information on the UH campus on behalf of an employer will not be approved. Examples include campus brand ambassadors, student referrals of other students and marketing or sales programs. Article IV. Job Posting Policies Organizations wishing to recruit students and alumni at the University of Houston using Cougar Pathway can do so free of charge. Job and internship postings are reviewed and approved/rejected based upon the information contained in the postings. Excessive postings and misleading postings are not allowed. Postings that do not correspond to a company’s actual interviewing, hiring and compensation practices, or postings that misrepresent the identity and affiliation of the employer, are not allowed. University Career Services reserves the right to deny job postings for not following the policies below or due to the position not being the right fit for our student community. An employer seeking to post open positions in Cougar Pathway must abide by the following policies: Section 4.01 General Policies All jobs and internships posted must be career-related and/or professionally oriented. Please note Cougar Pathway allows contract, temporary, and seasonal positions, but only if they are professionally oriented. Recruiters must agree to the University’s nondiscrimination and equal opportunity policy. Section 4.02 Position Type Employers must select the appropriate position type. The position type must align with the job position and be clearly identified within the description. Section 4.03 Resume Receipt Email Address Employers must use an email address that is connected to their business. Job postings with Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, etc, email addresses will be denied. Email addresses must include the company name as well as the recruiter’s name. Exceptions allowed for human resource or recruiting team email addresses. Section 4.04 Description Employers must list five (5) – ten (10) job duties, responsibilities or tasks. Job postings that fail to list a job description or list very few details will be denied. This information is important in providing candidates with enough information to decide whether or not to apply for the position. Section 4.05 Location Employers listing jobs that require students or alumni to work in private or personal residences, apartments, condos, etc. will not be approved. (Examples: caregiver, nanny, in-home tutor, and startup company positions that place students/alumni in residential homes). Virtual positions will be allowed on a case-by-case basis but students may not visit or work in a personal or private home. Section 4.06 Salary / Compensation Employers failing to list an acceptable salary description will be denied. Acceptable options include: A salary range (i.e. $15-$20 per hour) A specific amount (i.e. $40,000 per year) “Depending or based on experience” Section 4.07 Commission Only Employers listing commission only positions will be denied. Postings that include referral bonuses are also not allowed. Stipend-based internships are allowable but must disclose the per-week stipend amount and the hours of work per week. Section 4.08 Brand Ambassadors/Fee-Based Programs Positions requiring interns or employees to market/promote or create/develop free or fee-based programs, products, services, events, etc. and/or collect student information on the UH campus on behalf of an employer are ineligible. Examples include campus brand ambassadors and student referrals of other students. Job postings for positions that support or supervise the work of ambassadors are also not allowed. Fee-based programs; examples include fee-based training programs, fee-based placements or positions requiring the purchase of supplies or a training kit are not allowed. Section 4.09 Unpaid Internships Unpaid internships will be reviewed for non-profit or governmental organizations only. Approval of non-profits or governmental organizations will be granted only if all requirements below are met: The employer must be considered a non-profit or a government entity. The student must have a direct supervisor; the supervisor’s name or title must be listed within the job posting description. The student must work in a specified location and be provided with the necessary resources, equipment or facilities to support the goal of the internship. The student must be reimbursed for any out-of-pocket expenses including the use of their personal vehicle or any expenses that occur. Course credit can be provided but it is up to the student to coordinate with their department or college. UCS is not responsible for coordinating or submitting paperwork. Students must verify they can complete an internship for credit with their departmental academic advisor. An academic advisor will confirm guidelines and give permission. Section 4.10 Off-campus “Office Assistant” or “Executive Assistant Positions with titles of “office assistant”, “executive assistant” or “office coordinator” for off-campus employers will not be approved. Section 4.11 Political Campaigns Job Postings Political campaigns must follow the following guidelines for posting positions: All position(s) must report to and work at a physical business location such as a campaign headquarter office. All posted position(s) must include the supervisor's contact information. All job duties must be in line with the student's declared major of study. Students recruited through Cougar Pathway will not be allowed to do door-to-door campaigning (no visiting private homes or residences). Article V. On-Campus Recruiting Policies The policies and guidelines for the recruiting process of University Career Services are in the best interests of our students and corporate recruiters. The positive outcome of our recruiting process is enhanced by strict adherence to these policies. On-campus interviewing includes: On-campus interview (room only or preselect), Employer Meet & Greets and the promotion of on-campus or off-campus opportunities. Section 5.01 Promotion of Career Opportunities For University Career Services to market or promote career opportunities, the organization or company, must have an approved employer account through Cougar Pathway. This includes marketing recruitment events and flyers for job postings or opportunities. Section 5.02 Employer Eligibility Campus interviews should be directly scheduled and conducted by the recruiting organization's employees, rather than by third-party representatives; and, employers should be seeking candidates for internships and full-time employment (requiring a degree). University Career Services reserves the right to refuse any direct hiring organization from participation in On-Campus Interviews, especially in cases of misrepresentation or violation of UCS, the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principals for Professional Practice, and all federal and state employment laws. Section 5.03 On-campus interview timeline On-campus interviews (room only): Requests must be submitted six (6) weeks in advance On-campus interviews (preselect) Requests must be submitted six (6) weeks in advance Preselect lists are due to UCS eight (8) days after the resume submission due date When a company is late to submit their preselect list, and the student deadline to accept or decline that invitation is imminent, the company’s yield on those student invitations is reduced because of the short turnaround time between receiving the invitation and having to accept or decline it. Section 5.04 Meet & Greet timeline Employer Meet & Greets: Requests must be submitted four (4) weeks in advance. In order to promote Meet & Greet, we ask that all Employer create their own flyer. Our team will send out the flyer via email to all eligible students. Section 5.05 Communication Communication is crucial for the entire process to run smoothly. We ask the following: Employer to UCS Team: Employers are expected to notify University Career Services of any cancellations or changes to their interview schedules so students and alumni can be notified in a timely manner. We ask for 1 business day notice of any changes. Employer to Student: It is important that both the employer and student keep an open line of communication throughout the interview, offer, and evaluation processes. All companies should establish and maintain, a four (4) week window of communication with candidates throughout the process. All candidates not selected for further consideration should also receive notification of their final status once the selection process has been concluded. Section 5.06 Reneging on Offers/Acceptances If an employer has to withdraw an offer made to a student for any reason, the employer is asked to notify the Assistant Director of Employer Development and Relations as soon as possible. Likewise, if a student reneges on an acceptance of employment with an employer, the Assistant Director should be notified in order for a thorough review of the situation can be made. University Career Services considers reneging on acceptances to be unethical behavior. Section 5.07 Interview Eligibility Only current students/alumni of the University of Houston may be interviewed in our facility. Section 5.08 Inclement Weather and Closings University Career Services reserves the right to close our office due to inclement weather and safety for students, alumni, staff, and employers. The Employer Relations team will work with students and employers to identify potential rescheduling options. Employers will be expected to contact their applicants directly about interview cancellations and alternative interview options. Article VI. Event Policies University Career Services at the University of Houston provides students a venue to network with employers submit their resume to recruiters and learn about employment opportunities. Event types include Career Fairs, Networking Events, or Corporate Connections. NOTE: Specific career fairs have certain audiences or position requirements. Please, reach out to our team to clarify which event will be the best option for your organization. Section 6.01 Right to Refuse University Career Services reserves the right to deny access and participation to any student, alumni, recruiter, hiring organization and/or school. Section 6.02 Eligibility Any recruiter representing their direct hiring organization may participate in UCS events. Third-party recruiters may not participate in Career Fairs, except specifically noted. Section 6.03 Event Fees In registering for an event, the employer acknowledges the associated cost of the event and agrees to pay that amount in full, prior to the deadline. Section 6.04 Event Deadline All event deadlines are 1 week (or 7 business days) prior to the event date unless otherwise noted. Section 6.05 Event Cancellations Any employer event cancellation must be submitted in writing to the Employer Development and Relations team (hireuh@uh.edu). Cancellations within 1 week or (7 business days) of the event will receive a full refund or credit towards a future event. Cancellations within 3 business days or (72 hours) of the event will receive a credit towards a future event within the academic year. Day of No-show (no-call/email) employers will not receive a credit or refund. Section 6.06 No-Shows A “No-Show” is defined as a participating employer who registered for an event and did not show up. If an employer is a “No-Show" registration fees will not be refunded or credited toward any future fair or event. If the registration was unpaid, payment will still be expected from the organization. Section 6.07 Inclement Weather and Unforeseen Situations University Career Services is required to follow all University protocols regarding inclement weather and unforeseen situations. Up-to-date information on closing decisions can be found at http://alerts.uh.edu/. University Career Services reserves the right to make a decision to cancel an event out of the safety of students, alumni, staff and employers. If an event is canceled each paid employer will be able to choose one of the following: 1) attend the rescheduled date, 2) receive a credit for a future event, and 3) receive a full refund. The employer’s choice must be submitted in writing to the Employer Development and Relations team (hireuh@uh.edu) by the predetermined deadline, in order to be honored. Article VII. Third-Party Recruiting Policy University Career Services welcomes third-party recruiter postings that adhere to the policies below. Third-party recruiters (e.g., employment agencies): May post specific positions with specific clients on Cougar Pathway but may not post general advertisement(s) to solicit candidates for their services. Must identify client company in the job form for verification that the third-party recruiter is recruiting for a bona fide job or internship opportunity; career services offices will not disclose or publish client information to job seekers. Must gain permission from the student before sharing contact information, etc. with client company. May not collect and use student materials or information for opportunities other than the position for which the student applied. Article VIII. Non-Discrimination Policy The University of Houston is an equal opportunity, affirmative action educator, and employer. By registering to conduct on-campus interviews, I agree that my company is an equal opportunity employer. It is our policy that no citizen of the united states or any other person within the jurisdiction thereof shall, on the grounds of race, color, sex (including sexual harassment), age, disability, veteran status, religion, national origin or sexual orientation, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination in employment or under any educational program or activity of the university. In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act, interviews must be made available to all interested students who are authorized to work full-time in the United States for other than practical training purposes, regardless of their citizenship. If United States citizenship is required by your company, please indicate this requirement in the job description for any position for which you are recruiting. University Career Services makes its interviewing facilities and position-listing services available to employers who do not unlawfully discriminate in the selection of candidates on the basis of national origin, race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, or any other basis prohibited by applicable law. Any employer who makes use of University facilities or services must agree to abide by this policy and, if interviewing students, to talk in good faith with students who have been selected for an interview and to refrain from questioning students regarding the above-protected classifications. Article IX. Release of Student Information and FERPA Policies The Family Educational Rights & Privacy Act (FERPA) requires that we will obtain consent from students and alumni before releasing their profile and resume information. In addition, employers must use profile and/or resume information only to fill employment vacancies within your own organization. Any information acquired from profiles and/or resumes may not be re-disclosed to any other employer, or a third party, and other individuals within an organization except for employment purposes. FERPA FAQ: U.S. Department of Education Article X. Selection by Citizenship or National Origin The University of Houston has the privilege to educate outstanding individuals of varying backgrounds, and employers may encounter an international student on their interview schedule. U.S. laws and regulations require certain treatment of international students. Screening candidates based on citizenship or national origin is prohibited. While employers can hire only persons authorized to work in the U.S., there are a number of categories of persons authorized to work. It is prohibited to ask which category a person fits. Employers may ask if an applicant is legally authorized to work in the U.S., and may also ask if the applicant will now or in the future require sponsorship for employment visa status. However, employers may not use visa type as a screening tool to deny a qualified, employment-authorized candidate a position. The only exception is a position posting that specifically states a requirement for U.S. citizenship due to grant funding requirements or other specific regulations. Employers must refrain from asking interview questions regarding a candidate's citizenship or national origin, including questions about primary language, acquisition of foreign language reading skills, residency status, or ancestry. If you have questions regarding this policy, please contact UCS. Pre-Employment Inquiries and Citizenship Easy Guide to Hiring Foreign Graduates Article XI. Student and Employer Guidelines Section 11.01 Student Use appropriate channels to express concerns or issues with employers. Students are encouraged to email hireuh@uh.edu or call 713-743-5100 to share any issues, challenges or incidents involving off-campus or on-campus employers. Maintain appropriate communication and professionalism before and during an interview. Remain committed to signed job offers and do not back out of job offers (also called “renege”) from off-campus or on-campus employers. Follow expectations set by employers regarding employment expectations or policies. Section 11.02 Employer Use appropriate channels to express concerns or issues with students or alumni. Employers are encouraged to email hireuh@uh.edu or call 713-743-5100 to share any issues, challenges or incidents involving students or alumni. Conduct interviews with professionalism and only ask questions that are job-related or relevant to your company's policies. Provide students with appropriate time to make an informed decision about their job offer. We do not encourage or support “exploding offers” or providing students with unrealistic time frames for making decisions. Maintain a safe and professionally-oriented environment for students and alumni. Article I. Cougar Pathway Use Policy Article II. Job Scams Article III. Account Registration Policies Article IV. Job Posting Policies Article V. On-Campus Recruiting Policies Article VI. Event Policies Article VII. Third-Party Recruiting Policy Article VIII. Non-Discrimination Policy Article IX. Release of Student Information and FERPA Policies Article X. Selection by Citizenship or National Origin Article XI. Student and Employer GuidelinesBack to top University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies