Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Apply Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Theater Instruction Develop the expertise to teach drama, lead after-school drama programs or enhance instruction in kindergarten through grade 12 disciplines with the Graduate Certificate in Theater Instruction in the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts at Temple University. Become a more creative and collaborative educator with professional expertise across all areas of theater—including acting, design/technology, directing and history—and integrate your studies into your classroom. This 15-credit Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate) program equips working drama teachers with additional experience in an evolving profession. increases an educator’s potential for advancement within their school or district. meets the guidelines for drama teachers pursuing the Pennsylvania Department of Education Theatre Endorsement. provides teachers of any discipline with the skills to create meaningful engagement in the classroom through performance arts. The program’s curriculum is offered in hybrid, online and intensive formats to accommodate your teaching schedule. Intensives are held in Summer II sessions on Temple’s Main Campus, while other courses are held completely online or as hybrids that provide you direct contact with faculty and productions. This program is part of a nationally accredited theater department. It is led by distinguished faculty members, many of whom have decades of professional experience in all areas of theater, including acting, direction and production design, in cities such as Chicago, New York City and Philadelphia. Faculty members also have experience teaching drama and theater techniques to students of all ages and experience levels. Classes & Curriculum The 15-credit Theater Instruction Graduate Certificate comprises the following five courses. Acting 1 for Teachers Methods of Teaching Theater for Teachers Stage Management for Teachers Welcome Backstage for Teachers World of the Play for Teachers Related Graduate Degrees Theater Instruction MA Careers Graduates of the Theater Instruction Graduate Certificate are prepared to incorporate drama and theater performance in kindergarten through grade 12 classrooms. This program also prepares professional educators seeking the Pennsylvania Department of Education Theatre Endorsement. Students form the foundation to pursue careers in drama or theater, and current drama educators can advance their careers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,078.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,441.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Students in the Theater Department’s graduate program are advised by their area head. All students are reviewed each semester by their mentors to discuss progress and registrations. The department administrators register all graduate students for their courses. Program Contact For questions regarding the Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate), contact the following staff member. Matthew Miller is an associate professor and head of theater education. Phone: 215-204-4263 Email: mbmiller@temple.edu Accreditation The Theater Department is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Theatre as well as a member of the University Resident Theatre Association. CA-THIN-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit School Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Theater Instruction Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply