Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact About Welcome Letter Apply Facilities Outreach Chemistry Careers News Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry About Applying to the Chemistry Department Applying to the Chemistry Department There are many different ways to join in and contribute the fast-paced research and innovation underway in the Chemistry Department at the University of Memphis. Prospective Undergraduates Students looking to complete an undergraduate degree as a B.S. or B.S.Ch. in Chemistry at the University of Memphis may select and complete the appropriate application from the listed forms on this page; more information (including course listings and degree requirements Prospective Graduate Students General Information Thank you in advance for your interest in the department -- we are very proud of our current graduate students, faculty, and staff and look forward to learning how you can contribute to the exciting discourse, research, and facilities underway in the Chemistry Department. Before you join us however, you must submit an application. Familiarize yourself with the application process by exploring the links below. How to Apply to Graduate School > Admission Requirements for International Students > Application Forms, Prerequisites, and Policies > Please note that teaching and research assistantships, including a competitive stipend and all tuition and fees, are available only for full-time students (we even pay your parking!). Competition for assistantships is vigorous, and there is no guarantee that all admitted students will receive financial assistance. Once an assistantship has been awarded, it will continue until graduation, so long as you are making satisfactory progress towards your degree. All prospective graduate students must complete and submit a copy of the general application to the Graduate School at the University of Memphis application in addition to the form below to be considered for admission to Ph.D. and/or M.S. (Chemistry) courses of study.Please note that students will not be allowed to enroll as a graduate student in the Chemistry Department unless they meet the following prerequisites: Satisfactory record of undergraduate coursework in chemistry GRE general examination* test scores (or departmental waiver**) TOEFL for most international applicants Admission to Graduate School at the University of Memphis * GRE subject exam is not required ** Departmental waivers for GRE scores are rarely granted Do not send application materials to the Graduate Coordinator. These materials must be sent to the Graduate School. Your application can not be processed or considered by the department until your application to the graduate school is complete. Also, note that assistantships can not be approved until you are fully admitted to the Graduate School. International students must also supply the following: TOEFL Score: minimum score of 550 on the paper exam or 210 on the computer-based exam. Normally much higher scores are required to obtain departmental support. Evaluation of Credentials: A course-by course evaluation report is required. Health Certificate: Within 30 days from the first day of classes, each international student must submit a certificate from a licensed U.S. physician or other qualified U.S. medical authority verifying freedom from tuberculosis. Health Insurance: All international students must purchase health insurance before they are allowed to enroll. Please see the graduate school's website for further information. Graduate Admissions form for the Department of Chemistry <!-- intentionally non-empty iframe; for xsl --> After you start your application with the graduate school, you will receive a UID (it starts with a U and ends in numbers). Please forward your UID to the Graduate Coordinator (gradchem@memphis.edu) After your application is complete (fees paid, transcripts, and GRE scores, and, if applicable, certificates and TOEFL score), you will receive a confirmation email from the graduate school. Please forward this email to the Graduate Coordinator (gradchem@memphis.edu) Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/29/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.