Chancellor Offices Directory Contact Us About Us Leadership Our Universities Giving Reports Policies About the TTU System Home / About the TTU System The Texas Tech University System The Texas Tech University System was formed in 1996 and formally established by the State of Texas three years later in 1999. Since its inception, the TTU System has emerged as one of the top public university systems in the nation and is a dynamic force in higher education. Today, the TTU System consists of five component institutions and operates at multiple campuses and academic sites across the state and globe. • Texas Tech University • Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center • Angelo State University • Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso • Midwestern State University Focused on advancing higher education, health care, research and outreach, the TTU System is headquartered in Lubbock, Texas, and provides its universities with the resources needed to meet the global challenges of today and the future. Whether it’s contributing billions of dollars annually in economic impact or being the only system in Texas to house an academic institution, law school, and medical school at the same location, the TTU System continues to prove that anything is possible. How the TTU System Works The Texas Tech University System is governed, controlled and directed by a 10-member Board of Regents (including one student regent) appointed by the governor and confirmed by the legislature. The Board of Regents is guided by the Regents’ Rules and Regulations and upholds the operating policies of each member institution. Chancellor Tedd L. Mitchell, M.D., serves as the CEO of the TTU System, a position appointed by the Board of Regents. Mitchell works collaboratively with the Board of Regents, the TTU System Administration Executive Leadership Team and university presidents to enhance the TTU System’s profile and support shared missions of advancing higher education, health care, research and community engagement. Each of the five institutions has a president who is appointed by the chancellor and Board of Regents, serves as CEO of the university and is responsible for its strategic operation. The Role of the TTU System Administration Fostering a culture of collaboration, sustainability and excellence, the TTU System Administration provides its component institutions with leadership and services that support the fulfillment of each component university’s mission. The functions performed by the TTU System Administration and coordinated between the component institutions have been strategically identified to maximize consolidated expertise and cost-saving measures in areas that include strategic planning, governmental relations, fundraising, investments, cash and debt management, risk management, information systems, facilities planning and construction, legal counsel and audit services, among other areas. In addition to providing specific services, the TTU System Administration provides autonomy for the component institutions while ensuring for the overall fiscal health and stability of the system and supporting strategic initiatives of the component institutions. Mission of the TTU System Provide leadership and support services for Texas Tech University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Angelo State University, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso and Midwestern State University in the fulfillment of each component institution's individual mission. Values Culture A Values Culture provides the TTU System Administration with a set of guiding principles that members can hold themselves and other accountable for each day. Our team worked through a two-day retreat, with over 190 individuals in attendance, to determine core values, definitions and behaviors of each value. Shortly after, more than 70 members attended a town hall to review and refine the message of these values. As a result of this teamwork and collaboration, the TTU System Administration team has identified the following as its five core values: People First, Integrity, Community, Respect, Exemplary Service. Health, Wellness and Benefits The Texas Tech University System proudly participates with the Employees Retirement System of Texas (ERS). Health and benefits programs offered through ERS are designed to enhance the lives of our team members, in return for helping to make the Texas Tech University System and its universities a great place to work. Fraud & Misconduct Hotline | Careers | Site Map | Webmaster Texas Tech University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Angelo State University Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso Midwestern State University State of Texas Statewide Search Online Institutional Resumes Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal SAO Fraud Reporting Energy Management TTU System Regulations General Policy Information Title IX Open Records Requests ©2013 Texas Tech University System 1508 Knoxville Avenue, Lubbock, TX 79409 806.742.2011 ©