Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close St. Thomas More Society Home Faith Communities Catholic St. Thomas More Society Named after the English martyr who was chancellor of England under Henry VIII, the St. Thomas More Society (STM) is a student organization dedicated to promoting the rich heritage of the Catholic faith on campus. All students are welcome to participate in any activities of STM regardless of religious affiliation. Fall 2020 Contact Subscribe The St. Thomas More Society is hosting our meetings via Zoom during the Fall 2020 Semester due to the COVID-19 Pandemic. Please subscribe to our email list in order to get the link each week. Join us each week for Eucharistic Adoration in St. Joseph's Chapel from 6-6:45pm before our general meeting. May St. Roch, patron saint of plagues and epidemics, pray for us! Tom Sarrouf- Co-President Erin Abely- Co-President Dr. Stephen Hudson Register If you have any questions or if you would like more information, please contact Dr. Stephen Hudson, Erin Abely, or Tom Sarrouf. STM sends bi-weekly emails detailing the subjects of upcoming talks, meeting places and times, and any special announcements. Subscribe See the above schedule for a meeting place and time, as well as speakers and topics. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry McElroy 233 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3475 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College