Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Religious & Spiritual Communities and Services Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Religious & Spiritual Communities and Services Religious & Spiritual Groups at Brown University (Active Spring 2022) Below you will find a list of Religious & Spiritual Groups that meet on Brown University Campus, and are affiliated with the OCRL and Student Activities Office. If you currently run a group on campus that is not listed on our site, or need to update a current time/date for meetings, contact information, etc. please contact Chloe Clasper-Torch. If you are interested in starting a group, please visit the SAO website for more information. Group Affiliation Group Name Meeting Time(s) Group Contact Information Non Denom- inational Meditation Community Sundays at 6:00 pm, Manning Chapel [email protected] Baha'i Faith Brown-RISD Baha'i Club Thursdays from 7 - 8:30 pm, Page-Robinson 409 The Baha'i Club holds regular spaces for prayer and elevated conversations, open to people of all faiths (or none at all). Questions or further conversation are warmly invited. E-mail for specific information. [email protected] Paul Smith, Baha'i Club Advisor: [email protected] Logan Abel (Med School 2022), [email protected] Asiyih Ehsani (2023), [email protected] Christianity: Catholic Community Brown-RISD Catholic Community All Masses held in Manning Chapel Sunday: 10:30 am and 8:30 pm Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday: 12:05 pm Wednesday: 6:30 pm, followed by Eucharitstic Adoration & Confession from 7 to 8 pm. Please see the Events Calendar for Special Services Father Edmund McCullough, O.P.Associate Chaplain of the University for the Catholic Community: [email protected], 410-292-2514 Christina Germak, Campus Minister, Brown-RISD Catholic Community: [email protected], 401-863-3314 Christianity: Protestant Community Athletes in Action (AIA) Black Christian Ministries (BCM) The Branch Christian Fellowship Brown Christian Fellowship (BCF) Cornerstone Magazine Harmonizing Grace (HG) Salt & Light The Veritas Forum Please click here for complete listing of meeting times, programming, and group leader information. Maintianed by student leaders at Brown Graduate and Medical Student Christian Fellowship (A Ministry of InterVarsity) Bible Study: Mondays, 7 - 8:30 pm, Page-Robinson 409 Brown Grad: Esther (Chemistry), [email protected]; Jon (Assyriology), [email protected] InterVarsity Staff: [email protected] Brown Staff Christian Fellowship 1st Friday of the month at South Street Landing Rm 493, 12 - 1pm [email protected] [email protected] Prayers for Ordinary People (Ecumentical Service from the OCRL) Fridays at 12 pm, Manning Chapel Beginning March 2022 [email protected] Islam Brown Muslim Students' Association Jumu'ah Prayer Fridays at 1 pm Sayles Hall Imam Amir A. Toft, Associate Chaplain of the University for the Muslim Community: [email protected], 401-863-1820 [email protected] Judaism Brown-RISD Hillel Chabad Please see each respctive website for programming, services, and contact information Quaker Religious Society of Friends Group Wednesdays at Noon, Room 409 Page-Robinson Hall [email protected] Unitarian Universalist Campus Unitarian Universalists Sundays at 5 p.m. First Unitarian Church One Benevolent Street [email protected] [email protected] Interfaith Calendars This link will connect you to an online interfaith calendar which provides a full listing of all religious observances throughout the year. Or click on the image beflow for a PDF calendar created by Interfaith Action of Greater St. Paul. "This calendar lists religious and national holidays and observances that involve special worship obligations or food or work restrictions. The listings are not exhaustive, nor do they represent all religious traditions in the Interfaith Action community. Every effort has been made to ensure that this information is accurate. If we have missed an important date in your faith tradition, please let us know." Home About News & Events Religious Communities and Services Programs & Projects Places: To Pray, to Gather, to Meet Resources on Campus Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Chaplains and Religious Life Brown University Box 1931 Page Robinson Building (formerly J. Walter Wilson), Room 410 69 Brown Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2344 Fax 401-863-9359 [email protected] Calendar Sep 6 All Day Opening Convocation at 4:00 p.m.EDT Sep 7 All Day Classes of the first semester begin. Oct 10 All Day Indigenous Peoples’ Day. No University exercises. Nov 8 All Day United States Election Day. No University exercises. Nov 23 All Day Thanksgiving recess beginning Wednesday at noon EST. View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory