Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Search < Back to Columbia Public Health Menu Corporate Partnerships Research to Impact Who We Are Our Team How We Work Why Us About Columbia Mailman School Our Advisors Our Expertise COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Our Deliverables Targeted Research Reports Predictive Analytics Models Training Programs & Toolkits Survey Design, Dissemination, and Analysis Program Evaluation Our Case Studies Otsuka Pharmaceuticals Novo Nordisk Merck: Savings Mothers, Giving Life Claritin/Bayer Hospital Decision-Making Simulation Get In Touch Latest News Search You are here Home Corporate Partnerships Our Expertise Sustainability & Health Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition COVID-19 Strategies Data Science for Health Sustainability & Health Global Health Healthy Aging Food & Nutrition Sustainability & Health Consumers are increasingly paying attention to the composition of the products that they buy, and are trying to make educated purchases that enhance their health and the health of their families. Corporate partners can leverage our deep expertise in environmental health to link their sustainability strategies to potential health outcomes for consumers and clients Columbia experts have worked with clean energy providers, makers of household cleaning products, personal hygiene & beauty products, and are interested in partnering with any company that has a significant investment in sustainability and health throughout their supply chain and/or product line. Key Faculty Andrea Baccarelli, MD, PhD, MPH, serves as the Environmental Health Sciences department chair. A board-certified clinical endocrinologist, Baccarelli explores potential pathways linking environmental pollutants to human disease. His lab investigates health effects from particulate air pollution, metals, Bisphenol A, phthalates, and pesticides, and common risk factors, such as psychosocial violence, second-hand smoking, and maternal diet and metabolic alterations. His work spans the U.S. as well as Bulgaria, Canada, China, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Russia, Thailand, and other countries. Jeffrey Shaman, PhD, is a professor of Environmental Health Sciences and director of the Climate and Health Program. He focuses on climate, atmospheric science and hydrology, as well as biology, and studies the environmental determinants of infectious disease transmission, including mosquito-borne disease transmission, and how meteorology affects health. Shaman develops mathematical and statistical systems for generating forecasts of infectious disease outbreaks. He also studies a number of climate phenomena, including Rossby wave dynamics, atmospheric jet waveguides, and tropical cyclogenesis. Marianthi-Anna Kioumourtzoglou, MSPH, ScD, is an environmental engineer and epidemiologist and an assistant professor of Environmental Health Sciences. Her research focuses on applied statistical issues related to environmental epidemiology, including assessment of complex exposures in health analyses. Her studies primarily focus on air pollution and, additionally, on identifying how risks may vary across differing urban characteristics, as well as in a changing climate. Sign up for Transmission Receive updates about research and news from Columbia Mailman School of Public Health via our weekly newsletter. Subscribe Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers