Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Anthropology (B.S./B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Anthropology bridges the social sciences, humanities and natural sciences. Anthropological training provides a toolkit that allows students to be adaptable and broadly focused to successfully navigate the quickly evolving workforce. Intercultural competency forms a cornerstone of anthropological training. Anthropology teaches us to consider multiple perspectives and points of view and to understand the rationale for these various perspectives. Anthropologists provide the training to lead in the future: Leverage diverse perspectives through effective communication. Ethical and empathetic decision maker. Adaptable and curious learner. Dedicated to serving communities, Self-awareness of one's strengths, limitations, and biases. Anthropology examines human behavior from the origin of our species and across the many cultures living around the world today. By focusing on the breadth and depth of human experience, students gain a wide-ranging perspective of their place in the world today. The anthropology major is both exciting and practical, with career options that range from forensic anthropologist to urban planner, from product developer to consumer affairs investigator, from museum curator to park ranger. Your degree will prepare you for a professional career related to various people-oriented positions in the public and private sectors. FAST FACTS With an increasingly international workforce, culture and marketplace, the skill set and knowledge base that an anthropology degree develops are in high demand. Our department offers individualized advising for every student, guiding each along the way to his/her ultimate career path. Clemson awards both a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Arts in anthropology. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY The anthropology curriculum provides a depth of interdisciplinary knowledge that has direct application for a variety of career fields. Research, analysis and writing are skills developed through the degree. Employers seek these skills for grant writing, analytical reports and marketing communications. Course activities such as ethnographic writing, statistical analysis and GIS mapping provide students with many opportunities to develop their analytical skills and to investigate real-world problems. You’ll position yourself to address the most challenging issues facing our world today in sustainability, health sciences, business and technology from a human-centered perspective. Students who choose the Bachelor of Arts degree will take a foreign language and nine additional hours of social science or humanities courses related to anthropology. Students who choose the Bachelor of Science will take 15 hours of math and/or science courses. The nine-credit Business Anthropology & Human Behavior Certificate Program is also available to students who wish to explore cross-disciplinary training in business and social science research methods. These additional courses are useful for the direct application of an anthropological perspective to potential career paths. You’ll be encouraged to be intellectual leaders on campus by writing and presenting results of your original research and by attending professional anthropology conferences such as the American Anthropological Association, the Southern Anthropological Society and the South Carolina Anthropology Student Conference. B.S./B.A Anthropology and M.S. Social Science: Top undergraduates pursuing an anthropology degree have the option of working toward their master's degree in social science while finishing their bachelor's degree. Curriculum Anthropology, B.A. Anthropology, B.S. Business Anthropology and Human Behavior Certificate Popular Minors Business Administration Modern Languages Political Science Psychology Similar Majors Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Criminal Justice (B.S./B.A.) History (B.A.) Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As an anthropology major you’ll have ample opportunities to enrich your classroom education by working on projects in other countries, learning archaeological methods and techniques at summer field schools, gaining work experience through internships, and by performing research alongside faculty members. Fort Hill This project gives students the opportunity to work with archaeological data from the Fort Hill Plantation, located at the core of Clemson’s campus. Hungary Students will examine human skeletal material held at the University of Szeged in Hungary. Anthro Club The Anthropology Club is open to any student who wishes to discuss or even learn about anthropological topics such as the diversity of cultures around the world. Awards Students also may compete for the college's annual Outstanding Anthropology Student and Anthropology Travel Support awards. CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Anthropology Club AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% INTERNATIONAL CITIES London, United Kingdom Canterbury, United Kingdom RECENT EMPLOYERS Technical Writer/Editor NASA ARSET at Science Systems and Applications Inc. Sales Assistant Epicor Software Research Manager Edelman Intelligence Staff Scientist/Engineer AECOM Tour Guide Charleston Outdoor Adventure RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.D. Medical University of South Carolina M.S. Forensic Science Boston University School of Medicine M.A. Theological and Cultural Anthropology Eastern University M.A. Archaeology University of Kent Ph.D. Cultural Anthropology Emory University COMMON CAREER AREAS Human Services Case Management Advocacy Administration Business Criminal Justice Forensic Investigator Rehabilitation Education Teaching Research Government Public Administration Health Care Archaeologist Policy Analysis Research Program Development City Planning Social Science Research Human Resources Training and Development Recruiting Management Sales Marketing Public Relations FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Kristin Goodenow Director of Academic Advising kristig@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Anthropology (B.S./B.A.) Biological Sciences (B.S./B.A.) Criminal Justice (B.S./B.A.) History (B.A.) Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.) Psychology (B.S./B.A.) Sociology (B.S./B.A.)