Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links IR&P Menu Main Nav IR&P contact us Back Back Close About Institutional Research Overview Fact Book HEOA Data Space Planning Strategic Services Information Systems & Design contact us Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Space Planning Home Space Planning Space Planning manages the University’s valuable asset of physical space. As part of IR&P, we work together to provide senior leaders with the data and considerations to assist in their decision making through the following services: Review and programming of space requests including future programs Analyses, planning, and recommendations for space utilization and allocation Reporting of space for departments' use in their reports and planning efforts Administration of EagleSpace, BC's comprehensive online space database Space and Facilities Project Requests EagleSpace Space and Facilities Project Request Project Request Form Manage Active Project Requests Complete the Space and Facilities Project Request form to formalize your project with Space Planning and Facilities Management. This system was formerly for Alteration & Renovation (A&R) requests, but has been upgraded to include all space and facilities requests as described below. We will jointly review and coordinate all project requests, including any follow-up, scoping, or cost estimating procedures. Print Open All Close All When to Submit a Project Request A project request form is required for the following: Alterations and renovations. Program-driven requests for new space or requests for alterations and renovations to an existing space, i.e., any changes in space occupancy or utilization, leased space, temporary space, swing space, occupied, or unoccupied space. Large-scale maintenance. Requests for maintenance or replacements of large equipment, or buildings-level systems that are beyond work requests. Facilities engineering or architectural support. Requests to support building modifications, including but not limited to equipment installation, electrical upgrades, or fixture replacements. Project requests are first reviewed for feasibility. IR&P and Facilities Management evaluate project requests by using a number of criteria, including square footage, cost, and University priorities. We will work with the requesting department to identify the best possible solution. A project is approved for implementation when senior administrators have approved the proposed scope and budget and authorized appropriate funding. Do not submit a project request form for: Swapping of comparable full-time office space, which requires an email notification to Marise Fallon in IR&P and not a completed project request form. Minor maintenance items (e.g., heating or cooling repairs, minor electrical or plumbing, or housekeeping), which may be requested by filing a Work Order/Ticket. Please contact Marise Fallon if you have any questions about whether you should submit a Space and Facilities Project Request form for your project. Project Request Form Work Order Tickets (for Minor Maintenance) Project Request Process A department submits a project request using the Space and Facilities Project Request form. This involves describing the project request, specifying the necessary approvers, and verifying the information before submitting it to the first approver. As necessary, department chairs, deans, and directors will electronically approve the request. Upon VP/Provost approval, the request is electronically sent to Space Planning and Facilities Management. Space Planning and Facilities Management review the request with the department initiating the project along with the Dean, Vice President or Provost as required, to determine space feasibility and program/space scope. All project requests are prioritized by the Space and Facilities Project Review Group and submitted to the EVP. Priority considerations for projects will be assigned according to the following guidelines: Required by law/insurance Required by safety standards Directly related to the support of instruction — e.g., required to begin a semester Indirectly related to the support of instruction Funding availability Other If the request is limited to a simple space assignment with no capital costs and it is approved by the VP/Provost and EVP, Space Planning submits the space assignment to Facilities Management for implementation. All projects requiring renovations are reviewed/approved by the executive team before further processing. If the project involves capital costs, Space Planning submits program/space scope for condition assessment and/or cost estimate as required to Facilities Management to secure preliminary feasibility, project scope development, and cost estimates. For renovations, Facilities Management submits a schematic level cost estimate to the project’s Vice President or Provost to decide: If the project should be submitted to EVP for approval; and If approved, the priority of the project, i.e., immediate need or placed in the following year's Capital Project Request list for consideration If approved by the EVP, Facilities Management will develop project bid documents (if required), appropriation, and project timeline. Project Request Instructions Log in to the Space and Facilities Project Request form with your BC username and password. Only staff with a BC Agora login can access the project request form. Request a Project The project request form has four parts. Your information is saved after you complete each part. When you complete this first step, your project request is assigned a unique ID number. You can use this number to track your project request or make changes to it. Once you complete part four and submit the application to your first reviewer, you will no longer be able to make any changes to the project request. Step 1: Enter general requestor and department contact information. Step 2: Indicate the specifics of the project. This includes project title, location, reason/justification, date needed, project description and scope, funding source, and the number of people moving. Upload any attachments as well. Please limit attachments to photographs, PDF documents, and files that can be opened in Microsoft Word or Excel. You do not need to include a list of the people who will be moving, because Space Planning will ask for that information later. Adding an Attachment: Click on the Add Attachment button Browse – select the file you want to attach Click on the Open button Type in the description of the attachment Check the Release box Click on the Upload button The only way to edit the attachment itself is to delete it and upload a new attachment. Step 3: Specify who will electronically approve this request. To give you a head start, one or more of the fields may be pre-populated. When you click on the Chair or Dean/Director links, a new window will pop up. Search for the approver and click on his or her name. The pop-up box will disappear and the person's name will automatically populate the field. Please note that the pop-up boxes allow you to choose from all BC employees. Make sure to select the correct person. Step 4: Edit your project request and submit it. Once you press Submit, you will no longer be able to edit your project request. An email will be sent to your first approver. He or she will be able to edit the request, and then electronically approve or reject it. Manage Active Project Requests Use this option to check the status of project requests, edit and submit requests that have not been submitted, and approve or defer requests that have listed you as an approver. You can access any project request via its unique ID number. View a List of Project Requests shows all submissions that you are involved in. This includes projects that you have submitted and projects that you have been listed as an approver for. Note: If "Only show requests that require action on my part" is selected, only requests that require you to do something—either as a submitter or an approver—are shown. To officially submit or approve a specific request, start by clicking Review. If the project request is one that "requires action on [your] part," you will be able to edit it and take an action upon it. Otherwise, you can just view the submission and print it. Search for any project request in the “Search for One Project Request by Number” section of the page. Move to and From List Once your request reaches Space Planning and Facilities Management, you may be asked to provide more information about the movement of personnel and resources. If you have received an email from Space Planning or Facilities Management asking for this information, choose this option to fill out the Move to and From form and add it to your project request. To complete this form: Search for your project number and then click on the Edit button that appears. Add information one row at a time, using the Add Row button to add new rows. When you are finished, press the Save Changes button. EagleSpace EagleSpace provides BC faculty and staff space-related data based on buildings, CAD drawings, and end-of-year reports. Note that EagleSpace is available only within the BC network; you must be on campus or use the Eagle VPN to access the site from off-campus. Access EagleSpace EagleSpace User Guide Back To Top Back To Top Institutional Research & Planning St. Clement's South 300 Brighton, MA 617-552-3111 About Institutional Research Space Planning Strategic Services Information Systems & Design Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College