Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Health Topics Body Image Concerns Body Image Concerns Many young people have concerns about diet, weight, and attractiveness. These concerns can lead to unhealthy preoccupations with body weight and eating; affecting self-esteem, wellbeing, and vitality. When preoccupations become serious, they can lead to significant health problems. Eating problems fall within a broad spectrum of eating-related feelings, attitudes, and behaviors. The most common eating disorders are anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating disorder. Anorexia and bulimia are clinical disorders that affect three to four percent of college students, with the prevalence highest among young women. Also very serious is binge-eating disorder, in which a person frequently consumes unusually large amounts of food and feels unable to stop eating. Struggling with eating problems can be painful and frightening. The first step to overcoming an eating problem is acknowledging that you have a problem. Often this can be the most difficult step. An important aspect of this is realizing that eating behaviors and distressed feelings are impacting food choices and other aspects of your life. Symptoms Anorexia nervosa Anorexia nervosa—often simply called anorexia—is a potentially life-threatening eating disorder characterized by an abnormally low body weight, intense fear of gaining weight, and a distorted perception of weight or shape. People with anorexia use extreme efforts to control their weight and shape, which often significantly interferes with their health and life activities. People with anorexia excessively limit calories or use other methods to lose weight, such as excessive exercise, using laxatives or diet aids, or vomiting after eating. Efforts to reduce weight, even when underweight, can cause severe health problems, sometimes to the point of deadly self-starvation. Bulimia nervosa Bulimia nervosa—commonly called bulimia—is a serious, potentially life-threatening eating disorder. People with bulimia have episodes of bingeing and purging that involve feeling a lack of control over eating. Many people with bulimia also restrict their eating during the day, which often leads to more binge eating and purging. During these episodes, they typically eat a large amount of food in a short time, and then try to rid the extra calories in an unhealthy way. Because of guilt, shame, and an intense fear of weight gain from overeating, they may force vomiting (purging bulimia), exercise too much, or use other methods, such as laxatives, to get rid of calories (non-purging bulimia). People with bulimia are preoccupied with their weight and body shape, and may judge themselves severely and harshly for perceived flaws. Binge-eating disorder People with binge-eating disorder regularly eat too much food (binge) and feel a lack of control over eating. They may eat quickly or eat more food than intended, even when not hungry, and may continue eating even long after being uncomfortably full. After a binge, they may feel guilty, disgusted, or ashamed of the amount of food eaten. But unlike someone with bulimia or anorexia, those with binge-eating disorder don't try to compensate for this behavior with excessive exercise or purging. Instead, embarrassment can lead to eating alone to hiding bingeing. A new round of bingeing usually occurs at least once a week. Getting Help After recognizing a problem, the next step is to talk with professionals experienced in helping students who struggle with eating problems. Treatment can comprise many elements, including nutritional counseling, education, individual or group counseling, and medical monitoring. Proven approaches can effectively prevent, reduce, or stop troublesome behaviors while helping to develop new, positive ways of coping with underlying feelings. Following national standards for excellent care, Columbia Health has a multidisciplinary team of specialists on eating disorders. Schedule an appointment with Counseling and Psychological Services to talk with one of our clinicians. The Eating Disorders team at Columbia Health is comprised of medical providers and mental health practitioners, such as physicians, nurse practitioners, nurses, nutritionists, social workers, and psychologists. Students initially demonstrating an eating concern will see a therapist, a nutritionist, and a medical provider for individualized assessments. Members of the Eating Disorders team work closely together to provide appropriate assessment of and treatment for students with a range of eating, weight, and body image concerns. The team then reviews initial assessments and make recommendations for treatment and level of care will be provided to the student. Students receiving care at Columbia Health may be provided with short-term individual psychotherapy, group counseling, nutrition counseling, and medical monitoring. The team will continue to assess a student's progress over time and make recommendations based on the student's engagement in treatment and level of functioning. Questions For consultation or additional information, contact Annette Santiago-España, psychologist and clinical team leader of the Eating Disorders team at 212-854-2878. General Nutrition, Vegetarian Diets, Cooking Tips Go Ask Alice! Nutrition Q&As National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders National Eating Disorders Association About Face National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance Eat Right America (the American Dietetic Association) U.S. Government Nutrition Site Ask the Dietitian is an advice site with a dietitian online. Cooking Light magazine Campus Cooking offers recipes for college students. Meals for You offers simple, nutritious meals for university students on the run. Vegetarian Resource Group offers news, recipes, information, and discussion boards related to vegetarianism and other topics. Vegetarian Times Magazine Center for Science in the Public Interest: Nutrition Action Healthletter Food management/cooking Supplements The Kitchn includes interesting ideas for cooking and entertaining. SuperTracker Food tracking with food groups Meal planning Advice for increasing your intake of fruits and vegetables Oldways, inspiring good health through cultural food traditions Body Image Resources Go Ask Alice! Body Image Q&As About-Face is dedicated to media literacy. Body Positive is dedicated to fostering self-esteem and a positive relationship to food and our bodies. Proud2BMe is a body acceptance site. Gurze Books offers resources on eating disorders. National Eating Disorders Association has information on the origins, prevention, and treatment of eating disorders. Mayo Clinic offers a summary of many weight control issues and concerns. American Psychological Association has information on the treatment of eating disorders. Eating Disorder Referral and Information Center Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close