Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries School Psychology EdS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs School Psychology EdS Apply Visit Request More Info School Psychology EdS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Educational Specialist in School Psychology Train to meet students’ behavioral, emotional and learning needs; gain the skills to help them tackle developmental challenges in the Educational Specialist in School Psychology (EdS) program. The program has the full approval of the National Association of School Psychologists (NASP) and meets requirements for certification as a school psychologist in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and most other states. The program also meets requirements for the National Certification (NCSP) through NASP. Full-time students complete two years of coursework, followed by a year-long internship, for a total of three years to degree completion The program offers a robust clinical component: In addition to your required coursework, each student must also complete an annual portfolio, required practicum placements and a 1,200-hour internship in a school setting. An on-campus clinic also allows students to work with real families in an urban setting and write comprehensive evaluations. The program’s emphasis on academic, intellectual, social-emotional and systems-level assessment makes graduates highly sought after by employers. The program is dedicated to promoting social justice and to fostering a diverse, inclusive learning environment. For students who are interested in research, there are opportunities to join a research team and partner with faculty members to write and present joint studies. You’ll have the opportunity to tailor your studies through one of two concentrations: Applied Behavior Analysis or Counseling. To complete the educational specialist degree requirements and the requirements for PDE certification as a School Psychologist (PK-12), students must complete 66 credits of post-baccalaureate required coursework. Students who are pursuing board certification in Pennsylvania as a behavioral analyst (BCBA) should elect to complete the additional 12 credits of coursework in the optional concentration in Applied Behavior Analysis. Students who are pursuing licensure in Pennsylvania as a professional counselor should elect to complete the additional 12 credits of coursework in the optional concentration in Counseling. Concentrations You can focus on School Psychology or you can take one of the following concentrations. Applied Behavior Analysis Discover strategies and develop skills necessary for additional credentialing opportunities in Applied Behavior Analysis. Students will prepare to meet Pennsylvania’s educational requirements for board certification as behavioral analysts. Counseling Prepare for employment as a counselor in community-based mental health settings beyond schools. Students will hone skills that position them to pursue additional certification or licensure, expanding their professional opportunities. Licensure After completing an internship and passing the exams required by the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, students may become Nationally Certified School Psychologists. Related Graduate Degrees The School Psychology EdS is a practitioner degree for students who wish to pursue careers in school-based settings. If you are interested in pursuing a career as a faculty member or researcher, you might consider the School Psychology PhD Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program. Educational Specialist students can join the Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development, which runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. Student Association of School Psychologists, a student organization that plans social hours and organizes volunteer opportunities for students. They also co-sponsor a yearly school psychology conference with the School District of Philadelphia and with the Association of School Psychologists in Pennsylvania. This event attracts school psychologists and mental health professionals from all over the region. Past speakers have included Laurence Steinberg, Marsha Levick and MK Asante. Program Contact Jessica Reinhardt, associate professor of practice, is the faculty program coordinator for the School Psychology EdS program. Email: reinhardt@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Accreditation The School Psychology EdS has the full approval of the National Association of School Psychologists and is also approved by the Pennsylvania Department of Education. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-SCPS-EDS Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in School Psychology EdS Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info