Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs MVP Program Specialists Ally Montgomery Hi my name is Ally Montgomery! I'm a program specialist here at Military and Veterans Programs and have been working here since February 2020. I am a junior here at Tech and am working towards finishing my major in Kinesiology and minor in Nutrition. I am from Flagstaff, Arizona and work as a river guide in the Grand Canyon during the summer season. During my free time I like to bake sweets, read with a cup of tea and find any adventure I can outdoors. I am a dependent to a recently retired Army Veteran who served for over 30 years as active duty and reserves. Claudia Sauceda My name is Claudia Sauceda! I'm a Program Specialist for the MVP office and I have been working here since March of 2021. I'm currently a senior, majoring in Spanish while also minoring in Kinesiology and Health Professions. After graduating, I plan to attend physical therapy school. My father served in the Army National Guard and the U.S. Navy, for a total of 20 years. In my free time I like to travel and spend time with my friends and family. I have traveled to many places including the Dominican Republic, France, Mexico, and numerous states. One of my life goals is to visit every state in the U.S. Manee Gottlieb My name is Manee Gottlieb!! I Graduate in 2025 and my major is Kinesiology. I am in the Texas Tech ROTC program, RAIDERS LEAD THE WAY!!! I want to get my doctorate in physical therapy and become an officer in the United States Army. I am a grill cheese master, I have a new song in my head everyday and I will give you a fun fact if you ask for one. Colten Davis My name is Colten, and I am from McKinney, Texas. I am a Senior at Texas Tech, and I will graduate in the Fall of 2021 with a Bachelor of Science in Conservation Law Enforcement. My ultimate career goal is to become a Texas Game Warden. Prior to becoming a student at Tech, I served four years in the Marine Corps as an Aviation Ordnance Technician at MCAS New River in Jacksonville, North Carolina. My hobbies include fishing, hunting, watching sports and anything else outdoors related. Wreck ‘em and guns up! Matthew Knight Matthew Knight was raised in Texarkana, TX (not Arkansas). Before his time in service he owned and operated a nutrition store for five years. Later, he served 3 years in the U.S. Army as an Infantryman from 2015 – 2018. He was assigned to the 3rd Cavalry Regiment at Ft. Hood. During this time, he deployed to Afghanistan for 9 months during Operation Freedom's Sentinel. Matthew is now a junior student-veteran at Texas Tech University. He is currently majoring in Global Studies and minoring in Arabic. Matthew is dedicated to easing the transition to school for veterans and their dependents. Gavin Douglas Hi, my name is Gavin Douglas. I'm currently a junior at Texas Tech. My major is communication studies with a minor in advertising. I am a Program Specialist at the MVP office. I am also a U.S. Army Veteran. In my free time I enjoy playing golf and bass fishing. Victoria Carabajal My name is Victoria Carabajal. I am a senior majoring in Human Sciences. I am a Program Specialist for the MVP office. I have been working for the office since February 2020. My dad is a 20-year Retired Navy Veteran. I was raised mostly in Tennessee and Arkansas until my dad retired and we moved to a small town in the Hill Country of Texas. In my free time I enjoy researching true crime, modifying my Jeep, and spending time with friends. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:14 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index