Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Professional MBA Welcome Admissions Tuition, Fees, & Financial Aid Current MBA Students Faculty FAQs FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Admissions Application Guide Take Action See Other MBA Options Apply Now Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Professional MBA Admissions Admissions Information On this page, you will find information about the application process, requirements and deadlines. Criteria for Admission Deadlines to Submit your Application Step-by-step Instructions to Apply Required Materials for Your Application Additional Requirements for International Students Criteria for Admission Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution. Satisfactory undergraduate grade point average. Submission, review and acceptance of all Required Materials. Official test scores may or may not be needed. Read our GRE / GMAT policy. International applicants will need to satisfy some Additional Requirements. Go back to top of page. Deadlines to Submit your Application Applications for all MBA programs are received on a rolling basis. Our application deadlines depend on the semester you wish to start the MBA program. Type of Applicant Fall Admission Spring Admission Summer Admission Domestic applicants (US citizens and Permanent Residents) July 1 December 15 May 15 International applicants (all those who hold or require a visa) May 15 November 15 March 1 Go back to top of page. Apply Now Step-by-Step Instructions To Apply Start an online application. Choose "All other colleges/schools" and the semester you wish to start. Add the MBA program to your application: in the applicant portal: Go to the "Add Program" tab and enter "MBA" in the search bar. Click here to see a list of MBA options. Click on the "+" sign on the left-hand side of the MBA program of your choice to add it to your application. Upload documents to your application: go to the "My Application" tab. You will see four quadrants labeled: Personal Information, Academic History, Supporting Information and Program Materials. In "Academic History": you will be given instructions to add: Official Transcripts for all colleges attended. Click here for more information about sending official transcripts. GPA. Test Scores (GRE/GMAT), if needed. Use the code R-1459. Click here to read our GRE / GMAT policy. In "Program Materials": you will see four tabs. "Home" tab: brief description of the program. "Questions" tab: please answer all questions. "Documents" tab: please upload the following documents. Click here to read more about application materials. CV. Statement of Purpose. Essay. Click here for essay questions. Unofficial transcript under "Other Documents". This step is not required, but it helps expedite the review process. "Recommendations" tab: send recommendation requests to your recommender(s). Click here to read more about letters. Submit your application: go to the "Submit Application" tab. You will be asked to pay an application fee: $35 for domestic students (US citizens and permanent residents) $60 for international students (all visa holders) International Applicants: you will need to satisfy additional requirements, summarized here. Apply Now Go back to top of page. Required Materials for Your Application In order to be reviewed, your application must have all the following materials: Current CV or Resume. Statement of Purpose (maximum 1,000 words). Essay Question (maximum 1,000 words, read essay questions here). One Letter of Recommendation (read more details about letters of recommendation here). Unonfficial or Official Transcripts from every college or university attended except the University of Memphis (read more details about sending official transcripts here). Official Test Scores may be needed. Read our GRE/GMAT policy here | Read more details about the GRE/GMAT tests here. Go back to top of page. Essay Question Choose one of the following topics to write your personal essay (maximum 1,000 words). For the title of your essay, please indicate which question you chose to answer. Describe a situation where leadership and teamwork were critical to the outcome of a project in which you were directly involved. What did you learn from the experience and how have you applied this knowledge to other situations in your life? Describe a personal achievement that has had a significant impact on your life, providing specific details. What did you learn from this experience? How did it help shape your understanding of yourself and the world around you? Go back to Required Materials. Go back to Step-by-Step Instructions to Apply. Official Transcripts The Graduate Admissions Office requires official transcripts from all schools attended. Both paper transcripts and electronic transcripts are received. Paper Transcripts: must be mailed directly from the Registrar at your school to the third party who processes them, at: UofM Graduate School Transcript Processing Center PO Box 9205 Watertown, MA 02471 Electronic Transcripts: The Graduate Admissions Office only accepts electronic transcripts from Credentials Solutions, Parchment, and National Student Clearinghouse. If your school does not offer any of these services, your paper transcript must be sent by mail. Please click here for step-by-step instructions on how to send your official transcripts electronically after you submit your application. If you obtained a degree from a non-US institution, please see additional requirements below. Go back to Required Materials. Go back to Step-by-Step Instructions to Apply. Letters of Recommendation We require one letter of recommendation, but you are welcome to submit more than one. Your letter(s) need to be from a professional reference or an academic reference, such as a work supervisor or a former instructor. Letters from family members or friends are not acceptable. When completing your online application, you will be asked to enter contact information for your professional reference(s). Your recommender(s) will receive an email from uofmgradunicas@liaisoncas.com with instructions to upload their letters of recommendation directly. The link to upload letters of recommendation expires after two months, so please let your recommender(s) know to search their inboxes for such email. After entering recommender information, you may submit your application (even if your recommenders haven't uploaded their letters yet). Go back to Required Materials. Go back to Step-by-Step Instructions to Apply. GRE / GMAT Information A good GRE or GMAT score will strengthen your application if you do not have a good undergraduate GPA. We will consider your GMAT or GRE scores for tests taken in the last 5 years. You can find more information about both tests in the table below. After you take the test, please have your scores sent directly to Graduate Admissions using the code R-1459. GMAT GRE In Memphis The Pearson Professional Testing Center 6060 Poplar Avenue [ map ] Suite LL01 Memphis, TN 38119 Phone: 901.761.3372 The University of Memphis Prometric Center 111C Brister Hall [ map | campus map ] Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.1457 Online https://www.mba.com/ http://www.ets.org/gre/ International students may need to send language proficiency test scores. See requirements for international students below. GRE / GMAT Policy To be admitted into the MBA program you must meet one of the following 5 criteria: Undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher from an accredited external college or university Please provide an unofficial transcript with your application. If your degree is not from the US and you wish to obtain a GPA-based waiver, you need to have a course-by course evaluation with grade point average (GPA) equivalency done by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) website. Undergraduate GPA of 2.75 or higher from the University of Memphis Please provide your UID or an unofficial transcript with your application. Have earned a graduate degree from an accredited institution in the United States This includes degrees such as an MS, MA, MSBA, JD, MD, PharmD, etc. Five (5) or more years of Management Experience “Management experience” here means that you have held a position where at least 10 employees report directly to you. To obtain a waiver, you will need to submit an extended resume highlighting the number of years spent in a management position (as defined above) and the number of direct reports. After submitting your extended resume to an MBA advisor, it will be reviewed by a committee. Please note that process management and project management do not count as “management experience”. GRE or GMAT test score Admissions decision can be made using unofficial test scores. However, official scores are required by the end of the first semester Go back to Required Materials. Go back to Step-by-Step Instructions to Apply. Additional Requirements for International Students International applicants will additionally need to fulfill the requirements below: International Transcript Evaluation: official transcripts must be evaluated by any credentialing agency listed on the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services web site. A course-by course report and grade point average (GPA) equivalency are required. Language Proficiency Requirement: acceptable score on one of the following language exams: TOEFL (550+ paper, 79+ on Internet). IELTS (6.0). Due to COVID-19, we are also accepting the Duolingo English Language Proficiency test (100 or more). Please have test scores sent directly to Graduate Admissions using the code R-1459. Other Requirements: Graduate Admissions requires you to provide evidence of financial support with your application. Once admitted, you will need to satisfy health related requirements. Please visit the Graduate Admissions page for details about these requirements. Go back to Required Materials. Go back to Step-by-Step Instructions to Apply. Go back to top of page. Apply Now Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/17/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.