Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Humanities Spanish and Portuguese Access Course Offerings POR 101 Introduction to Portuguese I Professor/InstructorDaiane Tamanaha De Quadros Students will be taught the fundamental skills of oral comprehension, speaking, reading and writing, while gaining exposure to the Portuguese-speaking world through the media, literature, film and the music of Brazil, Portugal and Lusophone Africa. POR 102 Introduction to Portuguese II Professor/InstructorDaiane Tamanaha De Quadros A continuation of POR 101. Students will continue to develop skills of oral/aural comprehension, speaking, reading and writing, while gaining further exposure to the Portuguese-speaking world through the media, literature, film and music of Brazil, Portugal and Lusophone Africa. Students who successfully complete POR 102 will place into POR 109. POR 106 Introduction to Portuguese for Spanish Speakers Professor/InstructorLuis Gonçalves Normally open to students already proficient in Spanish, French, or Italian, this course uses that knowledge as a basis for the accelerated learning of Portuguese. Emphasis on the concurrent development of understanding, speaking, reading, and writing skills. Three classes. Prerequisite: Spanish 107 or equivalent, or instructor's permission. POR 109 Intermediate Portuguese for Spanish Speakers Professor/InstructorAndréa de Castro Melloni Students will continue to develop their language skills, especially those of comprehension and written and oral expression through grammar study, readings, film, music, and other activities. Students will read and discuss one novel in Portuguese and will gain further exposure to the cultures of the Portuguese-speaking world. Three classes. Prerequisite: POR 106 or instructor's permission. POR 199 Intensive Portuguese Professor/InstructorAndréa de Castro Melloni An intensive course designed for students who have fulfilled the language requirement in Spanish or another Romance language. Knowledge of one of these languages provides the basis for the accelerated learning of Portuguese. This intensive one-semester course teaches fundamental communication skills of comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing and provides some exposure to cultural aspects of the Portuguese-speaking world. Two 90-minute classes. POR 208 Journeys in Portuguese: Studies in Language and Culture Professor/InstructorLuis Gonçalves Designed as a journey through the Portuguese-speaking world, this course seeks to present the Portuguese language in context by exploring historical, social, political, and cultural aspects of Brazil, Portugal, Portuguese-speaking Africa and Asia through media, literature, film, music, and other activities. Students will increase their fluency and accuracy in both written and spoken Portuguese, broadening their vocabulary and mastery of syntax through textual analysis, discussions, oral presentations, and grammar review. Two 90-minute classes. Prerequisite: 109 or instructor's permission. POR 209 Portuguese Cultural Themes Professor/Instructor An advanced language and culture course looking at a variety of themes pertaining to the contemporary Portuguese-speaking world. Discussions and compositions expand knowledge of grammar and increase fluency in written and spoken Portuguese, providing a solid foundation for further study of literature and culture. Prerequisite: POR 109 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. POR 221 / LAS 223 Introduction to the Literature and Culture of the Portuguese-Speaking World Professor/Instructor Through readings of selected texts and audiovisual materials, this course introduces students to the diverse cultures of the Portuguese-speaking world. Discussions focus on Portugal's expansion during early modern times, and the spread of the Portuguese language in the Americas, Asia, and Africa. Contemporary issues in several geographic areas will be approached comparatively. Prerequisite: POR 208 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. POR 300 / LAS 315 Luso-Afro-Brazilian Literary Traditions Professor/Instructor This course focuses on works that have been key for shaping the literary tradition of the Portuguese language, from colonial to postcolonial times. Discussions will focus on the intersections between literature, social change, identity, and history in Brazil, Portugal, and Lusophone Africa. Prerequisite: POR 208 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. POR 301 / LAS 303 Modern Brazilian Literature and Culture Professor/Instructor A study of 19th- to 21st-century Brazilian texts with the aim of defining the place of Brazilian literature and culture within the context of Latin America and beyond. To include writers like Machado de Assis, Oswald de Andrade, Guimarães Rosa, Drummond, João Cabral, Clarice Lispector, and Caetano Veloso. Prerequisite: POR 208 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. POR 304 / LAS 311 Topics in Brazilian Cultural and Social History Professor/InstructorMarilia Librandi Through the analysis of literary texts, films, and music, the course will consider cultural responses to the construction of a Brazilian national identity. Possible topics include the Brazilian modernist tradition; contemporary culture and media; the city and literature; poetry and song. Prerequisites: POR 208 or instructor's permission. Two 90-minute classes. POR 319 / LAS 319 / VIS 346 Brazilian Cinema Professor/InstructorBruno M. Carvalho An introduction to the richness of Brazilian film, this course explores major cinematic movements: from the Cinema Novo, to critically acclaimed documentaries and more recent commercial successes like City of God. Recurrent and emerging trends will be discussed (e.g., the destruction of the Amazon, urban violence, literary adaptation, musical expressions). Prerequisite: POR 208 or instructor's permission. One three-hour class. LAS 404 / SPA 410 / POR 411 Latin American Studies Seminar Professor/Instructor The seminar will concentrate upon themes and topics in Latin American history, politics, society, literature, and/or culture. The focus will vary from year to year. POR 562 / LAS 562 Luso-Brazilian Seminar Professor/InstructorPedro Meira Monteiro To suit the particular interests of the students and the instructor, an intensive study of a subject chosen from either Portuguese or Brazilian literature, such as the Cancioneiros and the origins of lyric poetry in Galicia and Portugal, the theater of Gil Vicente, Camões and Os Lusiadas, the fiction of Eça de Queiroz, the poetry of Fernando Pessoa, the novel of the Brazilian Northeast, or recent trends in Brazilian poetry, culminating in the concretistas of São Paulo. SPA 101 Beginner's Spanish I Professor/InstructorAdriana Graciela Merino An integrated approach to develop the skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing Spanish in a cultural context to foster cultural awareness of the Spanish-speaking world. Class activities are devoted to acquiring and developing communicative and cultural competence through aural/oral practice, reading strategies, vocabulary acquisition, and language production. Audiovisual and other media resources are included. Five classes. SPA 102 Beginner's Spanish II Professor/InstructorAdriana Graciela Merino A continuation of SPA 101. The course continues to stress oral/aural practice with added emphasis on reading and communicative writing strategies. Students will read and analyze literary and cultural texts. Increased expression will be fostered through composition editing, videos, music, and film commentaries. Audiovisual and other media resources are included. Five classes. Prerequisite: SPA 101. The next course in this sequence is SPA 107. SPA 103 Intensive Beginner's and Intermediate Spanish Professor/InstructorIria Gonzalez-Becerra An intensive course that combines 101 and 102 in one semester. Designed for students who have previously studied Spanish. An integrated approach that emphasizes developing and reinforcing language skills. Students will be introduced to various cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world through literary readings, videos, music, and films. Audiovisual and other media resources are included. Five classes. Prerequisites: satisfactory score on Princeton Spanish placement test and instructor's permission. Followed by SPA 107. SPA 105 Intermediate Spanish Professor/InstructorAnna Alsina Naudi Specially designed for students with a good foundation in Spanish. Class activities reinforce language skills through aural/oral practice, grammar review, vocabulary acquisition, reading, editing, composition, oral presentations, and discussion of contemporary Spanish short stories, music, and films. Three classes. Prerequisites: a satisfactory score on the Princeton Spanish placement test. Normally followed by 108. SPA 107 Intermediate/Advanced Spanish Professor/InstructorAnais Holgado-Lage Designed for students who have successfully completed SPA 102 or SPA 103. An integrated approach to increase comprehension, and oral and written expression. Class activities reinforce language skills through aural/oral practice, grammar review, vocabulary acquisition, reading, editing compositions, oral presentations, and discussion. Students will develop their reading comprehension, oral proficiency, and writing skills through various multimedia activities. Five classes. Prerequisite: SPA 101-102 or SPA 103. SPA 108 Advanced Spanish Professor/InstructorGorka Bilbao Terreros An intensive course designed to prepare students to enter 200-level courses, with an emphasis on reading, speaking, and writing. The course is aimed at developing advanced language skills through frequent writing exercises, oral presentations, discussions of current events, literary texts, music, and film. Three classes. Prerequisite: 105 or satisfactory score on the Princeton Spanish placement test. SPA 205 Medical Spanish Professor/InstructorAnais Holgado-Lage An advanced level Spanish course on health and medical topics. Its main purpose is to provide the students with vocabulary and linguistic skills to discuss medical issues, and to prepare them to interact with Spanish speakers in a healthcare environment in the U.S. or Latin America. The course is focused on both oral and written skills. It will also explore some aspects of the Spanish-speaking culture in the fields of health and medicine through authentic documents and the contribution of guest speakers. SPA 206 Legal and Business Spanish Professor/InstructorAnna Alsina Naudi An advanced level Spanish course on legal and business language. The aim is to provide students with a new vocabulary for classroom discussions, readings and practice in a guided legal and business-related context. This course enables a deeper understanding of grammatical concepts previously presented as well as the syntactical and lexical challenges typical of this specific area of the Spanish language. Students will also be introduced to the basics of a completely different legal system and different business cultures, through texts, discussions, research, translation practice, situational case studies, and videos. SPA 207 Studies in Spanish Language and Style Professor/InstructorIria Gonzalez-Becerra An advanced course in Spanish composition and conversation designed to give students increased fluency and expertise in written and verbal Spanish skills. Extensive review of grammar and vocabulary through written and oral exercises. Course material includes literary texts, news-related publications, and films. Three classes. Prerequisite: SPA 107 or SPA 108 or equivalent AP/SAT score. SPA 209 Spanish Language and Culture through Cinema Professor/InstructorJovana Zujevic Designed to enhance oral and written skills in Spanish while increasing familiarity with Hispanic cultures through cinema. Language skills development is connected to the content of films and will be combined with in-class debates on cultural topics and writing of compositions. Two 90-minute classes. Prerequisite: SPA 107 or SPA 108 or equivalent AP/SAT score. SPA 210 / TRA 210 Introduction to Spanish-English Translation Professor/Instructor This course offers an introduction to translation practice for the Spanish-English language pair, focusing primarily on the task of translating from Spanish into English. However, students will also carry out a number of brief English into Spanish translation tasks. The course is conducted entirely in Spanish and follows a communicative approach to translation, with a good balance between theory and praxis. It will provide students with a solid foundation in the field, and prepare them to take more specialized translation courses. Load More More in Academics Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice