Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Events UWAA Members Join or renew Reasons to be a member Class of 2022 offer Member benefits Member account Get the app UW Impact Travel COVID-19 Updates Upcoming Tours Traveling with us Traveler Testimonials Tour Operators Resources & FAQs Travel insurance Communities U.S. Huskies International Huskies UW campuses, colleges & schools Common Ground Always Learning Multicultural Alumni Partnership Reunions UW Husky Landing Future Alumni Dinners with the Pack Huskies@Work Student Alumni Ambassadors Student Career Trek Services Career UW NetID Email & online tools Transcripts BECU GEICO Update your information Alumni Stories Home Alumni Stories Overview List Print Join our email list Close Enter search text to filter tours FILTER: All Stories Alumni Career Future Alumni Learn Member Regional Travel UW Magazine UWAA UWAA Resources College of Arts & Sciences In Classics, a different take on race History is a mirror in Chris Waldo's "Race and Identity in Antiquity" course. Link Viewpoint Why we ♥ the ECC Nine alumni share their love of the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center. Link Viewpoint Beloved Communities The College of Built Environments helps historically Black churches survive. Link UW Magazine Autism in the Spotlight From legally blind to the hero of his own story, actor Mickey Rowe, '11, chronicles his journey. Link UW Magazine For the Love of iPhone Software developer Tom Love’s, '72, '75, innovative programming language became the backbone of Apple. Link VIEWPOINT MAGAZINE Honoring Frank Irigon Activist and advocate Frank Irigon, '76, '79, honored with 2022 Odegaard Award. Link Get Together Summer Sports with the UWAA Save on tickets, sit with your fellow Huskies and support UWAA student scholarships! Link Homecoming Apply to be a 2022 UWAA Homecoming Scholar The UWAA is offering scholarships to students who represent the power of a UW education. Link Future Alumni Class of 2022 Grad + Alumni Programs Enjoy a Grad Week to remember with the UWAA! Link UW School of Drama Unmasking the Activism of Community Theater "Have something to say. Be brave enough to say it. Use your art to change the world." Link UW Magazine Biodiversity in a Box How much biodiversity can fit in one cubic foot? Find out at the Burke Museum. Link UW Magazine Millie Russell A trailblazer for civil rights and medicine. Link College of Education Play helps close the equity gap A broad coalition in Seattle-King County leads the way toward systemic change. Link UW Magazine Baseball standout is still going strong Wenatchee's Carlton Olson, ’61, made it into the 1959 Husky Hall of Fame. Link College of Built Environments Aspire: Inspiring Equity in Real Estate This internship program focuses on residential homeownership’s role in community. Link School of Social Work Leading Lights: UW Social Work Innovators on Creating Systemic Change This eight-part lecture series spotlights some of the UW's most noted scholars who are driving systemic social change. Link School of Law Three-Minute Legal Tips: The Power of Sanctions on Russia Anita Ramasastry explains how economic sanctions can cripple the Russian economy. Link Department of History Understanding Ukraine: A Reading List Learn about the history of Ukraine, and discover more about the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. Link UW Magazine Caring for Custodians Appreciating how custodial workers have served diligently during the pandemic. Link UW News How Black Lives Matter protests sparked interest, can lead to change After Black Lives Matter formed, new ways of talking about race gained traction. Link UW Magazine The Voice of the Yakima Valley Radio Cadena quickly became a lifeline for Eastern Washington’s farmworkers. Link UW Magazine Where Our Voices Are Heard The ASUW president wants student representation—and attentive stakeholders. Link UW Magazine The Kelly at 50 The Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center celebrates 50 years of diversity. Link Be Boundless A Call to Action Wendy Barrington leads the UW’s new Center for Anti-Racism and Community Health. Link March 1-31, 2022 Member Appreciation Month Member Appreciation Month Offers Celebrate Member Appreciation Month online from wherever you are with these online special offers! Link March 1-31, 2022 Member Appreciation Month Husky Socials Gather your pack and join us! UWAA members — your first drink is on us, along with a custom Husky pint glass. Link March 1-31, 2022 Member Appreciation Month Member Pop-Ins Show your member card and enjoy a sweet treat on us! Link March 1-31, 2022 Member Appreciation Month A month of events and special offers to celebrate our fantastic member community. Link Multicultural Alumni Partnership Meet the 2022 MAP Distinguished Alumni These alumni are celebrated for their passion for diversity and social justice. Link Student/Alumni Events Winter Husky Socials Gather with the pack at the ice rink, in the greenhouse and at Benaroya Hall. Link Watch Now 2022 Legislative Preview Recap: Restoring Public Trust in Higher Education Leaders from higher education and state government come together to discuss the issues. Link Audio Series Career Conversations Relevant talks for your professional development, from building relationships to setting boundaries. Link Race, Equity and Justice UWAA Racial Equity Update 2020-2021 Learn actions the UWAA took to advance inclusivity. Link UW Magazine Ambitious Humanitarian, Undaunted by Racism After WWII detainment, Harry Kawabe studied business and invested in Seattle. Link Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Courageous Agent for Change Emile Pitre, '69, reflects on his legacy of student-centered activism. Link UW News Angélica Cházaro Honored for her Work on Immigration Law UW Law professor named a “Freedom Scholar” for her leadership and bold ideas. Link UW News Teacher Brings the Mongolian Language to the UW Azjargal Amarsanaa proudly shares her culture and language with students. Link UW Magazine A Driving Force in Police Reform Enoka Herat, ’10, is a legal engine behind recent police reform bills. Link UW Magazine From Pain to Poetry Poet Jane Wong,'16, explores sculpture and performance works between books. Link College of Arts & Sciences Honoring Sam Dubal’s Vision New endowment for medical anthropology grad students pursuing racial justice. Link UW Magazine “Hip Hop M.D.” Mixes Science and Pop Culture Maynard Okereke, ’06, makes STEM topics more relatable to kids of color. Link JOIN the pack We are Huskies at heart Share your passion for the UW by joining the UW Alumni Association. Link Jackson School of International Studies A Conversation with Congressman Adam Smith on China Congressman Smith shares insights into diplomacy and national security issues. Link Partnerships UWAA and BECU partner for students Since 2008, BECU and the UWAA have joined together to support our members through commitment to diversity and advocacy of higher education. Link 2021 DAVA Dave Stone, ’68, U.S. Army Throughout his career, Dave Stone has modeled commitment and dedication. Link 2020 DAVA Bill Center, MPA ’78, U.S. Navy The retired rear admiral believes it is possible to eliminate extreme global poverty has no plans to fully retire until that goal is reached. Link Multicultural Alumni Partnership Meet the 2021 MAP Scholars The scholars were selected for their passion for diversity and social justice. Link Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Welcoming UW Regent Leonard Forsman Forsman, chair of the Suquamish Tribe, is the first American Indian on the board Link Be Boundless A Call to Action Wendy Barrington centers equity at the Center for Anti-Racism & Community Health Link First-Generation College Stories The National First-Generation College Celebration takes place each year on November 8, the anniversary of the signing of the Higher Education Act of 1965, to acknowledge and celebrate the success of first generation coll Link Student Scholarships Meet the 2021 Homecoming Scholars Meet students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link Spring Membership Drive Join the UWAA Pack Not a member? Connect with your UW community by joining the UW Alumni Association. Link UW Magazine Eyes on the Goal Alexes Harris, '97, works with UW Athletics to help student-athletes succeed. Link UW Magazine Learning the Business Nicole Bryant, '21, uses her business education to help a women-owned startup. Link UW Magazine A Fresh Lens Link UW Magazine Alumni Spotlight Stories of the AAPI Community Mari Horita, '94, uplifts the community in response to violence against AAPI. Link UW Magazine For the Missing and Murdered Student athlete Rosalie Fish runs to protest violence against Indigenous women. Link UW Magazine Visual Music Barbara Earl Thomas, ’73, ’77, creates "ordinary magic" with her cut-paper art. Link UW Magazine A Life in Design Nin Truong, '16, brings creativity to public art, skateboarding and apparel. Link Arts & Sciences Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month Explore Hispanic and Latinx history and culture via books, art and community. Link Share Your First-Generation College Experience Were you the first in your family to graduate from college? Share your story. Link Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan(tm) Sweepstakes One lucky Husky could win 100,000 Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan Miles. With Alaska Airlines and the oneworld® Alliance, you have the freedom to earn and redeem miles to more than 1,000 destinations worldwide. Not an Ala Link UW Magazine Seizing the Moment UWAA Board President Amit Ranande, ’98, ’03, shares his Husky story. Link lifelong learning 2019–20 UW Alumni Book Club Archive UWAA is proud to partner with UW Libraries for the launch of this self-paced literary educational experience — with the eclectic reader in mind. Link lifelong learning 2020–2021 UW Alumni Book Club Archive UWAA is proud to partner with UW Libraries for the launch of this self-paced literary educational experience — with the eclectic reader in mind. Link TX Huskies Driven to Build Up Others Jon Elder, '10, went from construction to helping others build businesses. Link National Newsletter Husky National | Spring/Summer 2021 Exciting events, great books and more await in this edition. Link International Newsletter Husky Global | Spring/Summer 2021 Commencement, high climbing and so much more in this edition. Link UW Football 2021 Football Viewing Parties Austin to Anchorage, D.C. to the OC, catch the action with your fellow Huskies. football , football viewing parties , game , party , viewing party Link CA Huskies Building a Life of Adventure and Generosity From dams to family, Marilyn and Tom, ’68, Draeger build things that last. Link PRESS RELEASE UWAA Welcomes New Trustees UWAA trustees represent a wide range of viewpoints, backgrounds and experiences. Link Homecoming Apply to be a 2021 UWAA Homecoming Scholar The UWAA is offering scholarships to students who represent the power of a UW education. Link International Huskies Legacy of Generosity Expands Korea Studies at the UW A recent gift was the latest in a long string of generous outpourings. Link UW Magazine Let’s Make Time In Nature More Inclusive Nicole Pasia, ’21, talks about making the great outdoors accessible to all. Link ALUMNUS SUMMA LAUDE DIGNATUS Can’t Hold Him Back From radical youth to senior statesman, Larry Gossett, ’71, is an activist for us all. Link ARTS & SCIENCES Celebrating Fifty Years of Outsized Impact How the Department of Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies continues to address critical issues. Link TACOMA NEWS TRIBUNE Mental Health in the Latino Community A UW student shares his mother's mental health journey. Link ARTS & SCIENCES Digging Into the Roots of Rap A hands-on course takes students on a musical journey, featuring guest experts. Link ARTS & SCIENCES Advocating for Access A child of Deaf adults, Christine Lew, '21, advocates for the Deaf community. Link ARTS & SCIENCES Seeking Justice, One Case at a Time One class led Anthony Stokes on a journey to help those caught up in the criminal justice system. Link UW Alumni Tours Small Group Journeys See what Odysseys Unlimited has in store for 2022 Link Husky tradition Video: Classes of ’70 and ’71 Reunion Relive the magic with archived video from the Class of ’70 and ’71 Reunion. Link 2021 Golden Graduate Distinguished Alumni David, ’68, and Marcie, ’69, ’76, Stone Link Feb. 15–21 GOLD Welcome Week Pop-Up Alumni Treats We've put together a week of member pop-ups all over the Puget Sound area. Link Feb. 15–21 GOLD Welcome Week “Ask an Expert” Career Events Learn how to apply to grad school, build a budget, and start a new job right. Link 2021 graduation A Graduation Tradition: Gonfalonieres and Guardians of the Gonfalons Meet the students and alumni taking part in the commencement ceremony on June 12. Link Athletes and Activism: Husky Sports, Social Justice and COVID-19 Husky Athletics leaders join student athletes and alumni to talk about sports in challenging times. Link Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Our Stories Are Your Stories Celebrate AANHPI Heritage Month with stories from the community. rej-resources Link Husky Football Husky Football All things Husky football for alumni, family and friends. cheer , football , football viewing parties , home , uw football , uwaa , viewing parties , warm ups , washington warm ups Link UW Alumni Tours Safe and Healthy Travel As global travel resumes, traveler safety is top priority for tour operators. Link Husky Giving Day Ambassador Resources Husky Giving Day ambassadors represent the 60,000-strong UWAA community. Link UW News How White Supremacy, Racist Myths Fuel Anti-Asian Violence See what assistant professor Linh Thủy Nguyễn has to say about the history of racism and violence, and ways forward. Link UW Magazine Husky Sports Adds to Focus on Diversity, Equity Sheridan Blanford, ’16, has the opportunity to make a big impact as she incorporates two of her passions—sports and inclusion. Link UW Magazine Soul of Seattle With the city changing rapidly, Ron Chew set out to write about one of its beloved communities. It’s a story only he could tell. Link UW Magazine Native Knowledge In research, teaching and curation, scholar brings Indigenous voices to the forefront. Link Be Boundless State of the Arts Behind the scenes at 4Culture, three UW alumni are helping artists and cultural organizations across King County to thrive — with racial equity as their North Star. Link UW Magazine Surveying the Native Art of the Pacific Northwest What it’s like to be a virtual student in the University of Washington’s class about Indigenous art. Link School of Public Health Building Community Power in Environmental Justice Research and Practice Public health experts discuss what it means to center community expertise in their work to promote environmental health and dismantle systems of oppression. Link School of Public Health Racism and Health Equity Leaders examine the systems of power through which we deliver public health — and the drive to change them. Link School of Public Health Health Equity in 2021: What COVID-19 is teaching us and where we’re headed Experts discuss discrimination in public health settings and how lessons learned from COVID-19 can lead to a more equitable future. Link UW Alumni Tours Journeys for the Curious Traveler See what AHI Travel has in store for 2021–2022. Link Celebrating community UWAA gives back to members Looking back on a week of celebrating our members and benefit partners. Link FREE FOR UWAA MEMBERS Member Benefit Career Development Sessions Wrap-Up Feb. 16–25. Learn to navigate your identity and career as a BIPOC professional. Link UW Libraries Black History Month Challenge A collection of poetry, music, film and books to broaden your understanding of Black history. Link THE GRADUATE SCHOOL GO-MAP: Recognizing 50 Years of Impact GO-MAP reflects on 50 years of supporting BIPOC UW graduate students. Link US Huskies Husky Seals Argentina Debt Deal Argentina’s debt talks neared collapse until a NY Husky with SoCal roots joined. Link CA Huskies Lifetime Achievement Award for Engineering Alum The IEEE Standards Association honored Bay Area Husky Chung-Kwang Chou, ’75. Link CA Huskies SoCal Tradition Goes National See photos from the 2020 run and save the date for the next run on October, 31. Link International Huskies Coming Full CIRCLE CIRCLE celebrated its first anniversary of serving international students. china , inter Link Feb. 15–21 We love our members Member Appreciation Week We've put together a week of member pop-ups all over the Puget Sound area. Link Member appreciation week “Airy” out your home Show off your Husky pride with a member-exclusive inflatable mini version of our famous "Airy" the Husky. Link International Newsletter Husky Global | Winter 2021 Dashing around the globe, looking back on 2020 and so much more in this edition. Link National Newsletter Husky National | Winter 2021 Dashing Dawgs, trivial pursuits and more await you in this edition. Link intellectual house & UWAA Short Talks: Home Event Wrap-Up Watch the recorded presentation of Short Talks: Home. Link College of Arts and Sciences An Artists Residency – from Afar Artist Ariel René Jackson explores how they inherited an understanding of the land. Link College of Arts and Sciences The UW Through an Indigenous Lens Senior Owen Oliver reflects on his experiences at the UW. Link UW Impact Recap: Beyond Economic Mobility Six speakers explore how higher education could provide for BIPOC students beyond degrees and jobs. Link FREE FOR UWAA MEMBERS Member Benefit Career Development Sessions Feb. 16–25. Learn to navigate your identity and career as a BIPOC professional. Link College of Arts and Sciences A Place for History Turkiya Lowe, ’10, shares the history of National Park Service sites. Link UW Magazine In new book, former mayor Norman Rice charts a path to healing Norman Rice’s details his experience as mayor of Seattle during trying times. Link UW Medicine UW doctors, students tackle the other pandemic: racism UW doctors call for an anti-racist public health response to protests. Link UW Magazine UW Medicine’s first Filipino-American graduate opens doors and minds Fernando Vega, ’74, ’78, followed his dreams to become a doctor. Link UW Magazine Renamed campus road honors Indigenous history Before white settlement, the land where the University of Washington now sits was home to Coast Salish peoples. Link UW Magazine After Prison Omari Amili spent time in prison before earning three degrees from the University of Washington. For our December 2020 cover story, he interviewed 10 other people who graduated after they got out. Link Remembering 2020 Create a Personal Time Capsule Simple guidelines to help you create your own account of this historic year. future-alumni-row Link An Unprecedented Year From a pandemic to economic fallout to a reckoning over race and policing in the United States, 2020 is sure to be remembered as a year of historic upheaval and change. The calendar year might be drawing to a close,... Link UW Magazine Filmmaking from the heart La’Chris Jordan, ’01, tells a timely and personal story in her debut short film. Link Enter to Win Husky Home Spirit Photo Contest Show us how you celebrate Purple Pride at home! You could win tickets on Alaska Airlines. Link Partnerships UWAA and BECU partner for students Since 2008, BECU and the UWAA have joined together to support our members through commitment to diversity and advocacy of higher education. Link Money Matters with BECU The UWAA has partnered with our longtime partner BECU to offer you two free seminars to help you manage your finances, reduce your debts and take control of your future. Sign up for one or both of these free events... Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs 2020: The Course Recorded lectures from a course designed to connect first-year students with UW’s top public scholars. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs Objects, Memory, the Future and You One of three recorded lectures from 2020: The Course, a class designed to connect first-year students with UW’s top public scholars. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs COVID-19 Public Health Basics One of three recorded lectures from 2020: The Course, a class designed to connect first-year students with UW’s top public scholars. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs Leadership and hope in 2020 One of three recorded lectures from 2020: The Course, a class designed to connect first-year students with UW’s top public scholars. Link Multicultural Alumni Partnership Meet the 2020 MAP Scholars The scholars were selected for their passion for diversity and social justice. Link College of Arts and Sciences Voting by the Numbers UW course takes a deep dive into the complexities of voting, from majority rule to election forecasting to gerrymandering to voting rights. Link EASTERN WASHINGTON Social justice and medicine mix at NATIVE Project UW Medicine student Kika Kaui spent her summer immersed in the practice of generational, integrated medical and mental health services. Link BLACK VOICES What the UW has gotten right UW professor LaShawnda Pittman takes stock of what's been accomplished. Link BLACK VOICES How can the UW engage? Tukwila City Councilmember De’Sean Quinn on putting the UW's expertise to practical use. Link BLACK VOICES Justice should be our North Star Ph.D. student Claire Gwayi-Chore discusses balancing teaching, learning, research and activism at the UW. Link BLACK VOICES Students for a safer campus UW Student Navon Morgan on leaving the UW better than he found it. Link BLACK VOICES Are you part of the problem or the solution? It is time to push for more profound strategies for change, says the UW's LeAnne Jones WIles. Link College of Arts and Sciences Neither Free Nor Fair Political Science Professor James Long launched a podcast focused on election security, featuring experts from the UW and elsewhere. Link College of Arts and Sciences Mixing Politics & Friendship Republican strategist Randy Pepple and Democratic strategist Cathy Allen created and co-teach a UW course on political campaigns. Link Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award Bill Center stands front and center when it comes to leadership Retired Rear Admiral Bill Center, MPA ’78, created a legacy of dedication and service. Link Student Scholarships Meet the 2020 Homecoming Scholars Meet students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link UW Impact Election Preview Former U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, ’78, and UW professor Crystal Hall join the conversation with KUOW's Ross Reynolds, as they share insights about key election issues. Link UW Impact Vice Presidential Debate Preview KUOW's Paige Browning, UW faculty Ralina Joseph and Megan Ming Francis talk politics before the Oct. 7 vice presidential debate. Link UW Impact Presidential Debate Preview KUOW's Ross Reynolds, former Washington Attorney General Rob McKenna, ’84, and UW professor Christopher Parker discuss the issues before the Sept. 29 presidential debate. Link Husky Marching Band Performances Relive the game day magic with these Husky Marching Band performances, including the 2019 Apple Cup show! Link Career Management Series Join us for a webinar series! UW Professional and Continuing Education and UW Alumni Association are collaborating on a free, four-part webinar series focused on career development. Thursdays, Oct. 29 – Nov. 19, 20 Link Race, equity and justice Race, Equity and Justice Resources Resources to advance diversity, equity, inclusion and anti-racist action at the UW and beyond. Link Race, Equity and Justice Advancing Inclusivity and Anti-Racism Read UWAA's 2020 statement committing to anti-racist practices and policies. Link International Huskies A decade of global generosity Celebrating UW's donors and volunteers around the world. Link Diversity at the UW Diversity Blueprint How the UW plans to become an equitable environment for learning, research, service and outreach. Link UW Magazine The historian of Seattle hip-hop Daudi Abe tells us what makes the local scene so special. Link UW Magazine Our lives, disrupted We asked three UW experts how we might use this challenging time to plan for a better future. Here’s what they said. Link UW Magazine UW’s Q Center is just getting started 16 years after its founding, the Q Center's is making an impact across campus and beyond. Link UW Magazine New generation learns the Puget Sound region’s Native language Meet the teacher and students who are working to revive Southern Lushootseed. Link Philanthropy Generous gift bolsters effort to diversify the education workforce Diversity in the education workforce is a key driver in K-12 student success, especially for students of color. rej-story Link University Book Store Anti-Racist Reading Kits Wherever you find yourself on your journey, University Book Store has the resources you need. Link 2020 Election Vote From Abroad Voting resources for US citizens living abroad. Link UW Alumni Tours 2021 Odysseys Unlimited Catalog See what adventures are coming next year! Link Professional & Continuing Education COVID-19 Career Resource Guide A collection of free guides and videos to provide actionable tips to perfect your resume, showcase your skills, master interviews, grow your connections, pay for your education and more. Link Become a volunteer in your community! Learn how you can help out in your Husky community! Link New York Huskies Why there’s never been a better time to drop the ball Tiffany Dufu, ’96, on achieving more by doing less and finding your "Cru" Link Joe M. Davis II | Vice President Class of 2016, UW Tacoma, Bachelors of Arts, Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Why I Serve As a kid, I was a good student who aspired to become a doctor or a police officer. However, college was not talked about in.. Link Kyu Lee | International Trustee Class of 2000, Bachelors of Fine Arts, Drama, 2000 Why I Serve I grew up 15 minutes from the Seattle campus and was surrounded by Husky traditions. However, like many teenagers, I flirted with the idea of attending faraw Link Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Black Opportunity Fund Your support will make a difference in addressing systemic racism and inequity. Link UW Magazine Author Teresa Tamura, ’96, captures snapshots of Japanese internment Teresa Tamura captures poignant stories from a World War II relocation center in her book. Link UW Magazine History professor explores complex history of African-Americans in the West Most of us don't have a clue about the African-American experience in the West. Quintard Taylor's goal is to set us straight Link UW Magazine After Charlottesville clash, history professor heard echoes of an ugly era Laurie Marhoefer researches and teaches about Germany from 1918 to 1945. Link UW Magazine For struggling students, a new charter school sees identity as the solution Can civic engagement transform the educational landscape, especially for students of color? Link UW Magazine Big wig UW’s startup culture proves that an idea, some energy and mentoring can bring business success. Link UW Magazine The great American barrier Byron Ragland was just doing his job. So why did police ask him to leave? Link UW Magazine Uneven evictions Who gets evicted in Washington? It depends on gender and race, a UW study reveals. Link UW Magazine Radical listening Being anti-racist doesn’t always require immediate action, says Professor Ralina Joseph. First, listen without judgment. Link UW Libraries Racial Justice Reads E-book recommendations from the UW Libraries on the topic of racial justice. Link UW Magazine How to camp like an infectious disease expert during COVID-19 We asked a physician about staying safe in the great outdoors. Link UW Magazine Make fine art with a UW professor, from his kitchen to yours The chair of UW’s printmaking program is stamping out doubt about remote learning. Link College of Arts and Sciences Exploring the World in Translation Ten faculty members share a reading list of their favorite works in translation. Link husky network UW Husky Landing A powerful new professional networking tool for the UW community. Link Jackson School of International Studies Trump in the World Lecture Series Lectures on the global impact of U.S government policies under President Trump. Link College of Arts and Sciences Praise the Pod A collection of faculty's favorite podcasts related to their field. Link Simpson Center, Harry Bridges Center and the Center for the Study of the Pacific Northwest Seattle Civil Rights & Labor History Project Collection of essays, interviews and photographs curated by UW faculty, students and the community. Link Society of Women Engineer at UW SWE Explore Learn about the world of engineering through fun at-home activities, panels and recorded lectures. For ages K-12. Link Simpson Center for the Humanities Keywords A video series where scholars introduce ideas central to their work by talking about keywords that are specialized, complicated, contentious, or ambiguous. Link Benefit Partner Fridays @ the 5th Join the 5th Ave every Friday for musical theater workshops, Q&A, and more for Washington state theater teens. Recordings of past workshops are also available. Link Bellevue Art Museum BAM from Home Contemplate, appreciate, and discuss visual culture with the Museum’s Chief Curator and get crafty with some help from the Education Team. All from home! Link Seattle Children's Theater SCT @ Home Weekly curated resources including drama activities, games, coloring pages (and more!) all inspired by past performances. Link Seattle Rep Inside Seattle Rep Podcasts, readings and creative conversations from UWAA Benefit Partner, Seattle Rep. Link Tacoma Art Museum TAM at Home Learning resources, project ideas and virtual tours of Tacoma Art Museum exhibits. Link UW Medicine What to Do If the Pandemic Made You Afraid to Leave Your House An article from Right as Rain by UW Medicine. Link International Huskies Q&A with Ben Ferrara, a media sales manager for Amazon Spain. CISB alum Ben Ferrara, ’17, talks about what it’s like working abroad. Link DC Huskies Alumna succeeds in Supreme Court case Jamila Johnson, ’07, argued for unanimous jury verdicts for serious offenses. Link NY Huskies Taking the helm in New York Brian Bannon, ’99, is leading the way at the New York Public Library. Link NorCal Huskies Transforming mental health and counseling services for students After deadly wildfires, Zenia Lemos Horning’s, ‘98, jumped into action. Link SoCal Huskies A San Diego Husky you should know Cheryl Anderson, ’01, studies the connection between what we eat and disease. Link NY Huskies Brooklyn in the time of COVID Mariel Boyarsky, ’15, shares an account of work during the height of COVID-19. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Spring 2020 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Spring 2020 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link Marketing & Communications Marketing for Good Podcast by Erica Mills Barnhart of UW’s Nancy Bell Evans Center on Nonprofits and Philanthropy. Link Online Learning BlackPast African American history reference center started by UW professsor Quintard Taylor. Link Jackson School of International Studies Arctic and International Relations Podcast Series The Arctic and International Relations Series includes publications, video interviews and podcasts. Link The Whole U Cooking With Kids in the Context of COVID-19 Tips and tricks to bring the family together in meal preparation. Link The Graduate School Coexisting with COVID-19 Lecture Series Recorded lecture series discussing various issues and questions related to COVID-19. Link UW Bothell Facing It A podcast about love, loss, and the natural world from professor, Dr. Jennifer Atkinson. Link UW Tacoma Voices Unbound: Enviro-Amplify Voices Unbound explores environmental challenges from the point of view of community researchers from the University of Washington Tacoma Link UW Impact Husky Caucus Directory Meet the state legislators who graduated from the UW. Link School of Art + Art History + Design and The Jacob Lawrence Gallery Knowns, Unknowns & the Spaces In Between Online gallery featuring the work of Class of 2021 School of Art grads. Link Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships & Awards Global Fellowships Prep Resources and workshops for alumni about fellowship programs for research, programming and teaching. Link School of Art + Art History + Design 2020 Graduate Showcase Take a look at the culminating thesis work of graduating Master of Fine Arts, Master of Arts, and Master of Design students. Link UW MAGAZINE Happy on the Trails Hiking book author Craig Romano, ’94, ’97, slowed down long enough to share some urban treks that are off the beaten path. Link Department of Political Science Megan Ming Francis: The Strange Fruit of American Politics A UW associate professor asserts white supremacy is the rule, not the exception. Link Graduate School Samuel Sinyangwe: Using Data to Advance Racial Justice Sinyangwe explains what data tell us about police violence & systemic racism. Link TEDx Talks Megan Ming Francis: Let’s get to the root of racial injustice A UW associate professor traces our current racial climate to its core causes. Link Spring 2021 Issue Viewpoint Magazine Telling the story of diversity at the University of Washington. Link Download and Print Husky Pride on Display Show your support for the Class of 2020 with these window and yard signs you can download and print at home. Link Cinema & Media Studies What to Stream Right Now: Free Movies for Black Lives Matter! 20 groundbreaking films and television shows by Black directors, many of which celebrate the history and present of Black political resistance. Link University Book Store University Book Store Recommended Reading List Suggested readings to help alumni perceive, understand and dismantle institutional racism. Link UW Magazine Fighting Misinformation With your help, the UW’s new Center for an Informed Public will confront “fake news” and manipulated media. Link Stronger Together Racial Equity Online Resources Digital resources to inform and enlighten about today's most pressing issues. Link Diversity at UW Center for Communication, Difference, and Equity Where our community of students, faculty, staff and alumni gather to promote greater equity. Link Diversity at UW Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center See how the UW serves and empowers historically marginalized and underrepresented students with educational and cultural opportunities for holistic development. Link Equity Focus Race & Equity Initiative See how the UW will combat the racism and inequities, both individual and institutional, that persist here and throughout our society. Link College of Engineering Finding “Fake News” in Times of Crisis The UW's Kate Starbird examines what conspiracy theories reveal about political propaganda. Link UW Bothell Anti-Racist Research Project Connect with a team promoting collective action and civic engagement through research. Link graduation A Graduation Tradition Moves Online: Gonfalonieres and Guardians of the Gonfalon Meet the students and alumni taking part in the commencement ceremony on June 12. Link International Huskies “In and About” Around the Husky Globe: Spring 2020 Find out more about what's been going on in our global alumni communities. Link CA Huskies Naresh Goyal’s passion for education Naresh “Nick” Goyal, ’72, proved that what you care about can change the world. Link Spring 2020 Q’s Corner: Notes from the International Trustee International trustee Kyu Lee shares happenings from around the globe. Link Husky Global International Huskies provide a world of help Huskies around the world give back in the face of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Link Zoom Backgrounds for Travelers Chat from where you want to be with these fun UW Alumni Tours-inspired backgrounds. Link The Jackson School Ellison Center Podcasts Dive into the world of Russian studies with this comprehensive podcast playlist. Link The Jackson School Symposium on Arctic Sea Ice Loss Check out two panels on the implications of melting ice in the Arctic Sea. Link The Jackson School Hunting the Northern Character Author Tony Penikett discusses the Arctic's influence on international policy. Link The Jackson School The State of Human Rights in Southeast Asia From climate change to the Duterte regime, UW professors discuss Southeast Asia. Link The Jackson School Spatial Representations and Rhetorical Framing of the Vietnam War Dr. Christoph Giebels explores the politics and behind the Vietnam War. Link Printable PDF Scavenger Hunt Dawg Walks Mix up your walk with this Husky-inspired scavenger hunt for Dawgs of all ages. Link Jacob Lawrence Gallery Monday Journal Writing about art and culture that invites you to imagine future forms of criticism. Link Sports Institute at UW Medicine Exercise Anywhere A list of resources to help you keep moving, even when you're stuck inside. Link UW Helps Lead the Fight COVID-19 Lectures and Seminars Many UW faculty, staff and students are holding online lectures and seminars on topics related to COVID-19, in addition to sharing their expertise in the news. Link School of Public Health COVID-19 Updates Webinars, announcements and critical information from the UW School of Public Health. Link UW IN THE NEWS UW Researchers Respond to Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) The most recent stories of UW experts commenting on the novel coronavirus epidemic. Link Tacoma Art Museum eMuseum Database Browse TAM's entire collection online for a limited time. Link Wing Luke Museum Wing Luke Digital Collections Learn about Seattle’s Chinatown-International District and the first Asian pioneers who settled here through artifacts and archival pieces dating back to the early 20th century. Link Philosophy for Children Children’s Big Questions During the COVID-19 Crisis: Resources for Parents Resources to help children understand the feelings and uncertainty that come with COVID-19. Link Art + Art History + Design Student Work Digital Galleries See what UW students have created in this online exhibition. Link Henry Art Gallery Henry Digital Gallery View the Henry's collection of contemporary art, photography, costumes and more online. Link Henry Art Gallery Henry SoundCloud A collection of gallery talks and podcasts from the Henry Art Gallery. Link Podcast Burke Museum To Hell Creek and Back: The Story of the Tufts-Love T. Rex Learn how a group of researchers and school teachers tracked down the elusive Tyrannosaurus rex in the sweltering badlands of Montana. Link Scandinavian Studies Crossing North Podcasts featuring interviews with authors, performers and leaders from Scandinavia and the Baltic and more. Link UW Tacoma Lightning Talks Celebrate the achievements of UW Tacoma in this collection of 5-7 minute talks. Link UW Tacoma TAC Talks Inspired by TED Talks, watch UW Tacoma grad students share ideas & get feedback. Link University of Washington College of Education Podcasts Explore podcasts with topics like whiteness, disability and climate science. Link iSchool Podcast: Is the internet making us miserable? Three scholars debated the causes of internet misery at a Town Hall in February. Link UW Medicine Care Provider Appreciation Share your messages of support and gratitude to the care workers at UW Medicine. Link Department of Communication Marching to Selma UW prof David Domke traces the history of an iconic Civil Rights moment in an online lecture. Link Just For Fun Zoom Backgrounds for Huskies Virtual backgrounds to add a purple and gold touch to your Zoom meetings. Link Jacob Lawrence Gallery As, Not For: Dethroning Our Absolutes Virtual walkthough of a historical survey of work created by African American graphic designers. Link Jacob Lawrence Gallery Marisa Williamson: Angel of History Lecture & Performance 2020 Jacob Lawrence Gallery Resident Marisa Williamson work, Angel of History, explores how slave history is not only understood but felt. Link BECU Money Matters Check out info, planning tools and tips from BECU to help guide you on life’s financial challenges. Link #UWServes Together We Will Our efforts today will help us overcome — together — the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic. Link COVID-19 response Stronger Together Digital resources to stay connected and engaged. Link APPLY by April. 17 Huskies Helping Huskies Huskies@Work Connect with a student for a low-commitment chat about what you love about what you do. Link Career Curious? Huskies@Work Explore career paths through one-time conversations with UW alums. Link Henry Art Museum Henry at Home Engage with The Henry on social media for artist videos, readings, and more. Link Museum of Pop Culture MoPOP Don’t Stop Engage with MoPop online through competitions, videos, listicles and more. Link Seattle Arts & Lectures SAL On Air Hear the best author talks from over 30 years of SAL programming. Link Improving our environment College of Built Environment Lectures Archive of lectures from the College of Built Environments including the Deans Distinguished Lecture and the Department of Architecture Lecture Series. Link Go huskies UW Athletics Coverage of UW Athletics sports. Link The Daily Sound Bite Check out podcasts from UW students, with topics like news, sports and dating. Link California Academy of Sciences Academy @ Home Explore CAS wherever you are with live webcams and DIY learning activities! Link Seattle Symphony Seattle Symphony Live Enjoy free live broadcasts of Seattle Symphony performances. Link UWAA UW Magazine – March Issue Explore the latest issue of University of Washington Magazine. Link sing along 5th Avenue Theatre Fifth Ave Theatre’s Greatest Hits Watch this collection of greatest hits from one of our favorite local theaters. Link Watch now UW Quad Cherry Blossom Live Stream Though campus visits are discouraged, you can still see the blooms from home. Link College of the Environment The Great (Neighborhood) Outdoors Stay connected with nature by exploring webcams featuring local flora and fauna. Link Department of History Digital History Center Explore the past, from a medieval battle to civil rights struggles and more. Link Department of History History Lecture Series Archive UW historians speaking on a range of topics, from Seattle history to world revolutions. Link College of Education Resources for Families with Elementary-Aged Children Discover activities for parents and kids, from virtual field trips to homework help. Link College of Engineering Engineering Lecture Series UW faculty talk about building a brighter future, from sustainable food to digital privacy. Check out lectures from the 2019 series and before. Link Department of Psychology Psychology Lecture Series This collection of lectures includes new perspectives on willpower and addressing bias. More than 80 videos to choose from. Link College of Education EduTalks Recorded lectures on the work UW Researchers and local education leaders are doing to improve young people's education experiences. Link KEXP Podcasts by KEXP Online list of and acces to KEXP postcasts such as Music that Matters. Link Information School Documents that Changed the World Podcast series from the UW Information School explores compelling stories of documents throughout history. Link School of law Discovery Podcast Distinguished guests discuss today's biggest social, political and legal issues. Link Department of Urban Design and Planning The Art of Black Urbanism Recorded conversations about black visibility and shifting spaces in community. Link Student-led UW Film Club Podcast Podcast by student-run Film Club that explores movies of all kinds. Link KUOW Podcasts from KUOW Settle in with engaging podcasts like Primed, The Wild and Seattle Now. Link Homecoming Apply to be a 2020 UWAA Homecoming Scholar The UWAA is offering scholarships to students who represent the power a UW education has to change lives. Link Photo Gallery Lots of fun at Husky Days in the Bay See the photos from five exciting across the Bay Area for our Husky community! Link National Newsletter Husky National – Winter 2020 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Winter 2020 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link UW Impact A Closer Look at the Workforce Education Investment Act UW President Ana Mari Cauce joined voices from the Legislature, business and student body to discuss this important legislation. Link CA Huskies Husky Days in the Bay Don't miss these unforgettable experiences including Husky Night at the Warriors Link International Huskies Out and About around the Husky Globe: Winter 2020 The global Husky community has had a busy quarter, catch up on all the news. Link Member Benefit Sweet Alchemy Ice Creamery UWAA Members get 15% off at Sweet Alchemy Ice Creamery! Link Winter 2020 Q’s Corner: Notes from the International Trustee International trustee Kyu Lee shares happenings from around the globe. Link Apply by April 30 Future Alumni Student Alumni Ambassadors Student alumni ambassadors engage with the wide range of our Husky community. Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Fall 2019 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Fall 2019 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link washington vs. boise state Mitsubishi Motors Las Vegas Bowl Get details on tickets, game day events and more. cheer , football , football viewing parties , uw football , uwaa , viewing parties , warm ups , washington warm ups Link History Lecture Series Life, Death, and the Gods Four UW faculty members shine a spotlight on those who dared to defy. history lecture series Link International Huskies Celebrating UW Converge Taipei 2019 The UW's premier gathering for international alumni and friends soars again. Link UW Magazine The Burke, unwrapped UW Magazine gets a look at the Burke's new home and bold new approach. Link Partnerships UWAA and BECU partner for students Since 2008, BECU and the UWAA have joined together to support our members through commitment to diversity and advocacy of higher education. Link Partnerships UWAA and AT&T Partner for Students We believe in the transformative impact an organized alumni community. Link Student Scholarships Meet the 2019 Homecoming Scholars We are proud to give the 2019 Homecoming Scholarships to six students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link 2019 DAVA The Hon. Ronald E. Cox, J.D. ’73, U.S. Army An owner of three Bronze Stars, the Hon. Ronald E. Cox is UWAA’s 2019 DAVA recipient. Link DC Huskies DC Husky Makes History Andrea Reister, '80, was the first female chief engineer at NUWES in Keyport, WA Link International Huskies Out and About around the Husky Globe: Fall 2019 The global Husky community has had a busy quarter, catch up on all the news. Link Fall 2019 Q’s Corner: Notes from the International Trustee International trustee Kyu Lee shares happenings from around the globe. Link INLANDER UW and Gonzaga Regional Health Partnership has found its first home Gonzaga and UW have found a place they'll soon call home. Link lifelong learning UW Alumni Book Club From personal stories to transformative fiction... Let's dig into amazing books! Link Common Ground University of Washington to create UW Center for an Informed Public The Center will combat what researchers call the “misinformation epidemic.” Link Vote for the best game day slogan Earlier this year, we asked Husky Nation’s finest wordsmiths to create team-specific slogans for each UW Football away game. Here are the five finalists, and now it’s your turn to weigh in! The author of the Link UW tradition Homecoming 2021 Come back and celebrate all things UW: Oct. 10-16. Link Student Send-Offs Huskies across the Pacific Northwest are getting together to welcome the newest students and their families into the UW community. Link member benefit Husky Pride on Your Feet Show your member card to get FREE Husky shoelaces at UW Night with the Seattle Reign FC. Link PERSPECTIVES NEWSLETTER Inside the Immigrant Experience Yolanda Valencia, ’19, explores how immigrants thrive despite U.S. policies. Link Husky 509 Banners Up A gallery of Eastern Washington Huskies showing their purple pride. 509 day Link East Coast Huskies Husky Fun on the East Coast Summer is an exciting time for Huskies in New York and D.C. Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Summer 2019 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Summer 2019 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link Out and About around the Husky Globe: Summer 2019 The global Husky community has had a busy quarter, catch up on all the news. Link Summer 2019 Jeff’s Corner: Notes from the Geographic Trustee Geographic trustee Jeff Adams shares the latest Husky happenings around the USA Link Seattle Times Our racial reckoning is overdue Columnist David Brooks weighs in on Eric Liu's "Become America" Link graduation A Graduation Tradition: Meet the 2019 Gonfalonieres and Guardians of the Gonfalon Meet the students and alumni taking part in the commencement ceremony on June 9. Link NY Huskies gather around The President’s Circle In early May, more than 30 New York Huskies gathered at the home of University of Washington Foundation Board member Ron Simons, ’01, to celebrate The President’s Circle. This reception for loyal supporters o Link Summer Letter Q’s Corner: Notes from the International Trustee International trustee Kyu Lee shares happenings from around the globe. Link common ground Common Ground Media List Expand your horizons this summer with these books and podcasts. Link Family events Dawg Days of Summer Gather the pack and enjoy some outdoor fun at these family-friendly summertime events! Link Husky 509 509 Round Up From Walla Wall Wine Weekend to 509 day, here's a quick review of Central and Eastern Washington activities. Link Husky 509 Eleven 509 students in the Husky 100 The UW has recognized a group of students who are making the most of the Husky Experience, 11 of whom are from the 509 eastern washington , Husky 100 Link China Huskies Two China Huskies Named to Husky 100 Congratulations to our China Huskies, Justin Wang and YiShan Guan! See them all. Link International Huskies 12 International Huskies Named to Husky 100 Congratulations to 12 of our own international Huskies! Come see them all. Link New York Huskies New York Husky Named to Husky 100 Congratulations to our own New York Husky, Lily Z! Link SoCal Huskies 10 CA Huskies Named to Husky 100 Link NorCal Huskies 10 CA Huskies Named to Husky 100 Congratulations to 10 of our own CA Huskies for making it to the 2019 Husky 100! Link Evans school Veterans on a Mission Link President's Blog State budget passage is much needed investment in Washington’s future Link International Huskies Out and About Around the Husky Globe Come catch up with the international Husky community after a busy quarter. Link New York Huskies Ron Simons, ’01, is Making a Difference Interviewing UW Foundation Board Director Ron, a dedicated social change-maker. Link Southern California Huskies Heart for Healing: Supporting Mental Health in Schools Kendall Fujioka, '14, supports youth mental health in California schools. Link Southern California Huskies Karli Berger’s Passion Never Rests Her daily schedule is packed, but she wouldn't have it any other way. Link DC Huskies Interview with an Alum: Yesenia Iglesias School of Drama alum Yesenia shares her experience of playing Mrs. Cratchit. Link Southern California Huskies Rose Bowl Day of Service Before the 105th Rose Bowl game, the Huskies and Buckeyes gave back together. Link China Huskies Building Bridges With Music The 2019 UW Wind Ensemble China trip was a transformative experience for many. Link China Huskies First GIX Cohort Graduates A little more than a year since launching, GIX has graduated its first cohort. Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Spring 2019 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Spring 2019 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link Husky for Life Graduated 2019. Husky for Life. There's no better way to stay connected than UWAA membership. Link Out and About around the Husky Globe: Spring 2019 The global Husky community has had a busy quarter, catch up on all the news. Link Spring Letter Q’s Corner: Notes from the International Trustee International trustee Kyu Lee shares happenings from around the globe. Link Spring 2019 Jeff’s Corner: Notes from the Geographic Trustee Geographic trustee Jeff Adams shares the latest Husky happenings around the USA Link UW Magazine Down to the Core Link The Seattle Times Spokane’s two medical schools draw more new docs to Eastern Washington Spokane has more first- and second-year students studying medicine than Seattle. Link Building a Husky Community for the Long Run UW alum Alexis reflects on her dedication to the DC Huskies community. DC , washington dc Link Husky 509 A 509 Husky forges his path to the UW Johnatan Rivera of Moxee, WA, shows how attending the UW is not a privilege of a few, but a path available to many. Link EVERYDAY HUSKIES Forever purple: A Q&A with purple-holic Mark Glenn Meet the man behind the purple hat and learn what drives him to show his purple pride, from the inside out. Link International Huskies University of Washington Converge Tokyo 2018 UW Converge Tokyo 2018 brought over 200 Huskies together. Link UW serves Huskies, Buckeyes share service project before Rose Bowl UW and Ohio State fans united to volunteer in the Los Angeles area. Link Everyday huskies The Class of 1958: Setting the standard for involvement with the UW For 60 years, the Class of 1958 has been working together in support of the UW. Link FROM UWAA Happy Holidays! Wishing you a joyful holiday season with peace and happiness in the new year. Thank you for being a UWAA member! Go Huskies! Link UW Football Rose Bowl Viewing Parties Austin to Anchorage, D.C. to the OC, catch the action with your fellow Huskies. football , football viewing parties , game , party , viewing party Link washington vs. ohio state The Rose Bowl Game Get game details on tickets, travel, entertainment and viewing parties here. cheer , football , football viewing parties , uw football , uwaa , viewing parties , warm ups , washington warm ups Link International Newsletter Husky Global – Fall 2018 Husky Global is UWAA's newsletter for international Huskies. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Fall 2018 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link The Seattle Times UW and WSU team up with a pro-college message Link Hong Kong Huskies Husky Awards Gala Shines It was a night of celebration and generosity in Hong Kong. Link 2018 distinguished alumni veteran Sacrifice, service, selflessness 2018 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Priscilla “Patti” Taylor, ’93, ’96; U.S. Army Link 2018 Fall Drive UWAA and BECU partner for students Together, we have raised more than $200,000 for students Link UW Impact Be a UW Impact advocate UWAA President Aggie Clark shares why you should become a higher education advocate. advocacy , higher education , legislative session , olympia Link Fall letter 2018 Jeff’s Corner: Notes from the Geographic Trustee Geographic trustee Jeff Adams shares the latest Husky happenings around the USA Link international huskies Meet Kyu Lee, ’00, UWAA’s first International Trustee UWAA's Board of Trustees appointed Kyu Lee, '00, as their international trustee. Link Oct. 16, 2018 Annual President’s Address A reinvestment in higher ed is necessary for the UW to honor its public promise. Link President's Blog In the face of tragedy, what can we do? It's time to protect what generations of taxpayers have helped to build. Link 2018 DAVA recipient 2018 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Priscilla “Patti” Taylor, ’93, ’96; U.S. Army Sacrifice, service, selflessness all in a day’s work for alumni veteran honoree. Link Student Scholarships Meet the 2018 Homecoming Court We are proud to give the 2018 Homecoming Scholarships to six students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link Husky 509 UW School of Medicine Spokane hosts reunion for 2008 first-year medical school students Close-knit group of students and faculty gather at UW Spokane Center. Link Ends Oct. 31 HUSKY FOR LIFE! Join the Pack Once a Husky, always a Husky. Join by Oct. 31 and get a "Husky for Life!" pennant. drive , fall , fall membership drive , gift , join , membership Link President's Blog UW alumni are vital to ensuring reinvestment in Washington public higher ed It's time to protect what generations of taxpayers have helped to build. Link Everyday Huskies Happy 100th birthday, Charlie Warner On Aug. 18, 2018, UWAA life member Charlie Warner, '47, turned 100 years old. veterans Link DC Huskies How to Make It in DC 2018 Mentors These professionals will offer career mentoring during the Dec. 6 DC event. mentors , networking Link UW tradition Homecoming 2018 Come back and celebrate all things UW: Oct. 27-28. Link UW Football Slogan Contest Winners View the winning slogan and designs for each UW football away game. Link Student opportunity Apply to the 2018 Homecoming Court You could represent the UW and its impact on the community at large. Link Husky Football Husky Football All things Husky football for alumni, family and friends. cheer , football , football viewing parties , home , uw football , uwaa , viewing parties , warm ups , washington warm ups Link UW Football Mitsubishi Motors Las Vegas Bowl Viewing Parties Austin to Anchorage, D.C. to the OC, catch the action with your fellow Huskies. football , football viewing parties , game , party , viewing party Link future alumni From Grad to GOLD Moving from student to alum is one of life's biggest shifts. UWAA programs are there to help. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Summer 2018 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link columns magazine Meet the stars of the 2018 Special Olympics From bocce ball to swimming, we photographed the bright smiles and unstoppable attitudes of this year's USA Games Link Civil & Environmental Engineering UW researchers improve a floating community in the Amazon The researchers enhance the environments in Amazon village through intervention. Link Evans School of Public Policy & Governance The power of online learning UW departments build a platform to learn about health in Africa. Link Civil & Environmental Engineering Civil engineering students study abroad in India Seventeen students study abroad in India to learn to become a problem solver. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs Undergrad presents research to Congress Jasmine Graham, '18, advocates for undergraduate research funding in DC. Link International Newsletter Husky Global — Summer 2018 Husky Global is full of international alumni news and connections to campus. Link Husky connections The power of mentorship: One alum’s experience with Huskies@Work We talked to Patrick Clark, '86, who served as an alumni Huskies@Work host in October 2017. Link common ground Common Ground Reading List Elevate your beach reading this summer with these Common Ground reads — books to expand your perspective, challenge your thinking and reflect on what unites us. Link common ground Common Ground reaches over 1,000 students and alumni Looking back on the first six months of Common Ground, the UWAA's civic engagement effort. Link husky community Statewide Impact Forget the ivory tower. The UW Alumni Association has been building the state-wide Husky community by bringing UW news to alumni, where they are. Welcome to the Husky family. Ninety incoming UW students, parents, alumn Link Summer Fun Husky Celebrations from Coast to Coast We loved connecting with Huskies at our 2018 summer events. Link CA Huskies Volunteers on Parade Dawgs joined in Cinco de Mayo fun and gave back at their annual day of service. Link UWAA Board From the UWAA President: July 2018 Outgoing UWAA President Suzanne Dale Estey shares thoughts on a momentous year. Link Summer letter 2018 Jeff’s Corner: Notes from the Geographic Trustee We have so many things to celebrate from the past year at the UW. Link International Alumni Featured Volunteer Leader – Edward Pang A profile about the featured chapter leader- Edward Pang from Singapore. Link Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Orin Smith, 1942-2018: Soft-spoken CEO’s philanthropy spoke volumes With values formed by his Chehalis upbringing, Orin Smith was a business leader who knew how to treat people right. Link College of Education College of Education honors Distinguished Alumna Diana Hess, '98, has received the award for her work advancing civic education. Link graduation A Graduation Tradition: Meet the 2018 Gonfalonieres and Guardians of the Gonfalon Meet the students and alumni taking part in the commencement ceremony on June 9. Link Husky 509 509 Round Up From a new Husky holiday to a lecture on the opioid crisis, a quick review of Central and Eastern Washington activities. Link Husky 509 Ten Eastern WA students in the Husky 100 The UW has recognized a group of students who are making the most of the Husky Experience, eight of whom are from Eastern Washington. Husky 100 Link closing the divide ASUW event attempts to close political divide among student body Huskies across the aisle looked for common ground with ASUW, UW Impact and Rob McKenna common-ground , UW Impact Link Family events Dawg Days of Summer Gather the pack and enjoy some outdoor fun at these family-friendly summertime events! Link Clean Energy Institute UW, Tsinghua researchers explore opportunities for new energy grids A collaboration between UW and Tsinghua University on creating new energy grids. Link the boys in the boat “Boys” author hails Shell House revival plan Daniel James Brown’s book, "The Boys in the Boat," inspired tourists to visit the UW and helped fuel a $10 million renovation of the old shell house. Link the boys in the boat Re-imagining the home of “The Boys in the Boat” The building that housed “The Boys in the Boat” has squatted upon Montlake Cut, largely anonymously. There’s a $10 million plan to change that. Link Husky100 25 students from outside of WA honored in 2018 Husky100 25 students from outside of Washington State are honored in 2018 Husky100. Link Husky100 2 students from Oregon honored in 2018 Husky100 Richard Gentzkow and Leah Shin from Oregon are honored in 2018 Husky100. Link Husky100 8 Students from California honored in 2018 Husky100 8 students from California were honored 2018 Husky100 for their leadership. Link Summer Fun 2018 UWAA Summer BBQs Celebrate summer with your Husky family at this nationwide series of events. Link UW Impact Huskies Vote! Register to vote, update your registration and learn about key voting dates. Link Husky100 3 Chinese students honored in 2018 Husky100 Angel Chen, Jiaqi Li, Lin Wu are honored with the Husky100 awards. Link Husky100 9 international students honored in 2018 Husky100 9 students from six countries are honored with Husky100 award. Link National Newsletter Husky National – Spring 2018 Husky National is your resource for Husky news and events across the country. Link International Newsletter Husky Global — Spring 2018 Husky Global is full of international alumni news and connections to campus. Link everyday huskies Sharon Maeda builds on a legacy of activism to run a new kind of radio station After a career as a radio pioneer, Sharon Maeda has come out of retirement to become the first station manager of Rainier Valley Radio/KVRU 105.7 FM. Link KNKX UW Rower planning to cross the Pacific to Hawaii Eliza Dawson, '18, aims to set a record and bring attention to climate change. Link Golden State Warriors Husky alumnus nominated for Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Rick Welts, '75, was elected into Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame. Link Grad Pack ConGRADulations, Class of 2018! You're a Husky for life, and there's no better way to stay connected than UWAA membership. Link Buerk Center for Entrepreneurship Brewing success Four students created a real beverage company out of an Entrepreneurship class. Link southern CA Celebrating the Husky spirit at Dawg Days in the Desert Purple pride was on display as a part of Dawg Days in the Desert, the annual gathering of the UW community in Southern California. ana mari cauce , bob rondeau , chris petersen , Dawg Days in the Desert , Southern California Link College of Engineering Inspiring future engineers Gabriella Tosado, a graduate student, wants to inspire young students. Link college of engineering A meeting of minds Eric Chudler, a UW professor, committed to teach monk about Neuroscience. Link seattle times Liberal arts degree delivers liberal earnings and job satisfaction we need liberal arts majors who study STEM and STEM majors who study the humanities, arts, and social sciences. Link International Alumni Be an international mentor You don't have to live in Seattle to make a difference in the life of a UW student. Link School of Law Alumna appointed dean of University of Indonesia law school Melda Kamil, ’95, ’11, is the second woman to be elected dean in the law school. Link Undergraduate Academic Affairs UW senior joins prestigious Churchill Scholars Timothy Welsh wins a competitive award granted by University of Cambridge. Link College of Arts & Sciences A life abroad, with coffee Julian Fellerman, '11, helped South America coffee farmers increase revenue. Link Eastern Washington Husky Socials Paint your town purple with fellow Eastern Washington Huskies. Link crazy 4 uw Two hearts — one joint membership If you and your spouse/partner share a lifelong connection to UW as well as each other, a joint membership may be for you! Link quartz opinion Where Trump’s first State of the Union speech ranks historically, and why according to UW speech professor Matt McGarrity Link China Daily Tsinghua University band performs at UW Tsinghua University Military Band was invited to perform in the Meany Center. Link Be A World Of Good Improving one-third of people’s days Google X consultant Vy Tran, ’16, is dedicated to making workplaces safer. Link Southern CA Dawg Days in the Desert Dawg Days in the Desert is a University of Washington tradition and your ticket to fun, food and friendship. Link UW Medicine Augustine Ajuogu aims to make a global impact Ajuogu's passion for studying medicine comes from his childhood in Nigeria. Link Columns Giving a voice to immigrants Immigrants shouldn't be nervous about writing in English, says Assunta Ng, ’79. Link 2017 in review More Than a Game UWAA highlights from a season to remember. Link AR/VR UW receives $6 million to create AR/VR academic center A joint venture by Facebook, Google and Huawei creates the UW Reality Lab. Link Fiesta Bowl Penn State, UW fans works at food bank before Fiesta Bowl Husky alumni worked with Penn State alumni at St. Mary Food Bank. Link Think critically Common Ground Find UW resources, events and programming designed to challenge our thinking. Link AZ CENTRAL Fans come together to help St. Mary’s Food Bank in Phoenix Joint UWAA/PSAA event brought fans together to volunteer at a local food bank. Link Happy Husky Holidays! Thank you for being a UWAA member! Wishing you and yours a joyful holiday season and all the best in the coming new year. Go Huskies! Link Husky National Newsletter Husky National Newsletter Husky Global is your resource for international Husky news and events. Link Be Curious Winter 2018 Public Lectures Be Informed. Be Inspired. Join us for a single night or a season of discovery. Link History Lecture Series Challenging Gender Four UW faculty members shine a spotlight on those who dared to defy. history lecture series Link DC Alumni “I tell combat stories from the heart.” Alex Quade, '92, tells stories from the frontlines of wars. Link International Huskies Out and About around the Husky Globe: Fall 2017 Husky news and updates from around the world. Link washington huskies Bowl Central Learn more about the Huskies at the PlayStation Fiesta Bowl. Link New York Chapter Meet the New York Huskies new top dawg New York Huskies Alumni Chapter welcomes Kayler Body as the new chair. Link year in review Best of 2017 Another year, another retrospective list of some of our favorite UW Alumni Association memories. Link Career connections Inside a Huskies@Work company visit at PEMCO On Oct. 9, four students spent the day at PEMCO's office in Seattle. Link Human power Submarine team Human Power Submarine Team wins speed race along the Potomac UW Human Powered Sub team applied knowledge in building the submarine. Link Husky Honors AAAS names 8 UW researchers as fellows in 2017 8 researchers are nominated for their contributions in science and engineering. Link International Alumni Canadian husky running star came back to UW to coach Former NCAA Champion, Anita Campbell, came back to mentor UW track team. Link columns magazine Five generations of huskies A 1962 grad reflects on her family's history at the UW. Link seattle times New UW contract with Nike allows inspections against sweatshop UW established the first anti-sweatshop contract in the nation with Nike. Link Forbes Magazine 2 Huskies make Forbes ’30 Under 30 in Energy list Students named among the most promising individuals working in their fields. Link columns magazine Helping Persecuted Artists in Pittsburgh The City of Asylum is a big deal to writers fleeing persecution. Link student scholarships Meet the 2017 Homecoming Court We are proud to give the 2017 Homecoming Scholarships to six students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link School of Public Health Video: “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks” Expert Panel Discussion Watch the Oct. 12 panel discussion that followed the screening of the film. Link In review Another record crowd at Alaska Airlines Dawg Dash This year, 4,300 Dawg Dashers came out to get some exercise and support student scholarships. Link Future Alumni Class of 2018 Programs Make the most of your senior year and get a head start on your future with a little help from UWAA. Link 2017 dava recipient 2017 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Raymond D. Emory, ’52, U.S. Navy When he retired in 1985, the Pearl Harbor veteran found a new calling. Link in review Focus on fall quarter Learn about how the UWAA is working to connect alumni to campus this fall. Link Applications open now future alumni Alumni, students share their Huskies@Work experience Hear about the impact of Huskies@Work — directly from students and alumni who have taken part. Link Husky Philanthropy A unique way to support the Husky Band You can support the band into the future by establishing a long-term endowment Link From the HMB Director Taking the show on the road to Rutgers and the Big Apple Follow the band on their East Coast adventure! Link From the HMB Director A salute to the 2017 HMB undergraduate student leadership These dedicated students are essential to running the band. Link From the HMB Director Husky Band twirler brings home national title Husky twirler Krissy Terwilliger took the title at the national championships! Link Husky 509 Eastern Washington Huskies join UW leadership Several Eastern Washington Huskies have been chosen as UW leaders. Join us in welcoming these Dawgs, serving on the UW Board of Regents and the UWAA Board of Trustees. Link husky 509 Boundless dreams Meet students Kenia Diaz and Tyler Valentine, whose dreams were bolstered by scholarships. Link Husky 509 Dawg Pack gatherings From football to fighting cancer, Eastern Washington Dawgs gathered to learn and show their purple pride over the late summer and early fall. Link event review Boundless enthusiasm More than 250 Husky faithful attended the Husky Marching Band Sneak Preview, kicking off the 2017 football season with style. Link columns magazine “We came here to contribute” Antonio Lopez-Ibarra's journey from undocumented immigrant to Tri-Cities dentist. Link columns magazine Scions of Spokane How two brothers built one of the best alternative weekly papers in the nation. Link UW tradition Homecoming 2017 Come back and celebrate all things UW: Oct. 27-28. Link UW Football 2017 Slogan Contest Winners View the winning slogan and designs for each UW football away game. Link earth & space science Native American Youth Launch High-Altitude Balloons During Eclipse During the total eclipse, high school students saw their science projects soar. Link columns magazine The Cole Role Model UWAA names Bill Cole the first recipient of the Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award Link Student opportunity Apply to the 2017 Homecoming Court You could represent the UW and its impact on the community at large. Link communities Three Cheers for Chapter Volunteers We're saying thanks to the chapter volunteers that help make our events great! Link Member E-News From the UWAA President September, 2017 What is your UW story? As UWAA members, we all have stories about our Husky Experience and what the UW means to us. For many, the Husky Experience is life-altering, from being the first in your family to. Link event review Dawg Pack gatherings With the Welcome to Washington Celebration, Tri-Cities Husky Social and more, the UW celebrates Eastern Washington Huskies past, present and future. Link husky 509 Hops and Huskies Learn what led four UW alumni — siblings Patrick, Meghann and Kevin and Meghann's husband Kevin Quinn — to open Yakima's Bale Breaker Brewing Company. Link #BeBoundless Socially Responsible Design Bringing Responsible Design to South Central LA David de la Cruz, ’17 is helping his community overcome decades of pollution. Civic Engagement , College of Built Environments , David de la Cruz Link President Visits President Cauce Visits Beijing The China Huskies welcomed President Cauce during her recent trip to Beijing. ana mari cauce , Beijing Link Graduates of the Last Decade GOLD Guides to Life Life's a wilderness. Get a guide Dawg. A new series of seminars for GOLD alumni. Link UWAA Board From the UWAA President: July 2017 This school year has been full of unforeseen challenges and opportunities, and we’ve faced each with the openness, intellect, passion and action expected of Husky Nation. Link Commencement 2017 Meet the Guardians of the Gonfalons At commencement, alumni volunteers watch over the banners carried by students to represent each UW school and college. Link Distinguished Service Awards Eddie Pasatiempo: Making an impact For his decade-long fight to fund higher education in Olympia, Eddie Pasatiempo received this year's UW Alumni Association Distinguished Service Award. Link Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus Man of the city: Norman Rice remains one of Seattle’s most dedicated public servants The Evans School grad and former mayor helped revive downtown, improve schools and build a community we are all proud of. Link ConGRADulations, Class of 2017! Be PROUD. Be a MEMBER. Get your Grad Pack and enjoy special new grad rates on membership! Link ConGRADulations, Class of 2017! Be PROUD. Be a MEMBER. Get your Grad Pack and enjoy special new grad rates on membership! Link ConGRADulations, Class of 2017! Be CONNECTED. Be a MEMBER. Get your Grad Pack and enjoy special new grad rates on membership! Link Membership spotlight Non-alumni, please apply Think you have to be a UW alum to be an Alumni Association member? Think again! Link Lifelong learning Back in the classroom UW’s public lectures bring to campus speakers on a variety of topics reflecting our changing world. Link future alumni From grad to GOLD Moving from student to alum is one of life's biggest shifts. UWAA programs are there to help. Link Husky pride Connecting beyond Seattle No matter where we travel, one thing remains the same: a strong sense of Husky pride! Link UW Alumni Tours Ringing in the New Year in Vietnam Te’t is considered the most important holiday and the biggest celebration in Vietnamese culture. asia , tours , vietnam Link uw recognition Alumni Honored at Awards of Excellence The winners will be honored June 8 at a ceremony in Meany Hall for the campus and general public. Link International Alumni Thailand Chapter Raises $10,000 for Scholarships A generous gift from the Thailand Huskies will support student scholarships. Link International Alumni Out and About around the Husky Globe: Spring 2017 New ventures, Husky spirit around the globe, and the passing of a business icon. china , Chris Chong , Diana Chou , Edward Pang , Huyn Kim , Kia Hong Lim , korea , Leslie Koo , singapore , taiwan Link Spring 2022 Viewpoint Telling the story of diversity at the University of Washington. Link Washington Post Alum goes from prisoner to Georgetown law professor Representatives from the Simpson Center advocate for the NEH scholarships , washington dc Link SoCal Huskies Making a Difference. Together The SoCal Huskies got crafty and got down at their annual day of service. service Link Husky 509 Increasing access to dental care with RIDE Part of the UW’s School of Dentistry, RIDE bring dental care to Eastern WA's rural and underserved communities. Link Husky 509 Seven Eastern WA students in the Husky 100 The UW has recognized a group of students who are making the most of the Husky Experience, eight of whom are from Eastern Washington. eastern washington , Husky 100 Link In review Huskies run in packs in the 509 UW alumni and friends gathered east of the mountains at events at Husky Socials and the Walla Walla Wine Weekend. Link UW Football Game Day Slogan Contest Help us create team-specific slogans for each of this season’s away games. button , cheer , football , football viewing parties , slogan , uwaa , viewing parties , warm ups Link GOLD Alumni Introducing the GOLD Alumni Council The UWAA has gathered a special group of recent graduates to guide programming. alumni , future alumni , GOLD , GOLD alumni , young , Young alumni Link future alumni CongGRADulations 2017 Graduates! You did it — graduation is here! Commemorate this milestone, and get a head start on your future, with these free events from the UWAA. Link In review Looking Back on Dawg Days in the Desert On March 13 and 15, 2017, UW alumni and friends gathered for the Desert Scholarship Luncheon and Chow Down to Washington. ana mari cauce , chow down to washington , chris peterson , Dawg Days in the Desert , Desert Scholarship Luncheon , Southern California Link Career Connections Students make the most of spring break with Career Treks to Bay Area, D.C. Students connect with careers and alumni as part of UWAA's Career Trek program. bay area , career trek , careers , D.C. Link Southern CA Huskies Dawg Days in the Desert 2017 Photo Gallery View photos from some of the fun events at Dawg Days in the Desert 2017 Link New York Alumni Changing with the ‘Times’—and Facebook The Foreign Intrigue Scholarship set the tone of NY Husky, Meghan Peters' career Husky Experience , Meghan Peters , new york huskies , scholarship Link resources FOOD follow-up From recommended restaurants to great food organizations, find resources coming from the speakers at "FOOD: Four Short Talks." food Link Making a Difference NorCal Huskies Alumni Giving Creates Opportunities for Cultural Immersion Bob and Lydia Hellrich-Dawson on why they support students who study abroad. economics , Giving , northern california , study abroad , travel Link columns magazine Dramatic Dynamics Stereotypes don't have a chance when Kathy Hsieh, '87, takes center stage. Link March 2022 UW Magazine See how the UW is helping to make a better future and celebrating our shared past. https://magazine.washington.edu/ Link Think critically UW Resources Stay informed about ongoing campus initiatives, resources and discussions. common-ground , Paul Rucker , UW resources Link Summer Fun 2017 UWAA Summer BBQs Celebrate summer with your Husky family at this nationwide series of events. Link NorCal Huskies Protectors of the Presidio Robert and Christina Wallace lead the Presidio's restoration and preservation northern california Link Be Loyal Join the UWAA Be a Member You know that being a Husky didn’t end when you earned your diploma—you’re a Husky for life. drive , gift , join , membership , spring , spring drive , spring membership drive Link NorCal Huskies Painting by numbers: Engineering, art and data science Susie Lu visualizes data for Netflix thanks to painting and engineering degrees. northern california Link In review Focus on fall quarter From Dawg Dash to reunion to Homecoming, we had a busy fall. dawg dash , homecoming court , homecoming weekend , map breakfast , reunion , scholarships , UW Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award Link Membership Be purple. Be connected. Be a member. The UWAA's 55,000 members are the backbone of the UW's alumni community. GOLD , graduates of the last decade , membership Link About Us Meet the UW Alumni Association Learn about the UWAA's mission, history, staff, administration and more. Link UW Impact Be engaged: Bipartisan panel addresses role of higher education today On Jan. 5, UW Impact hosted their annual Legislative Preview, titled "The Role of Higher Education in a Changing Economy." Link Race and Equity Be inspired: Alumni and students work together to interrupt privilege Alumni and students explore race, equity and difference together in this seminar hosted by the UW in partnership with UW’s Center for Communication, Diversity, and Equity. Link sold out future alumni Be prepared: Get business cards from the UWAA Get a set of business cards for networking, interviewing and career fairs, compliments of the UWAA. business cards Link CAREER CONNECTIONS Lending a paw to future alumni with Huskies@Work Learn about Huskies@Work, the UWAA's job shadowing program connecting alumni with current Husky students. career , eBay , students Link chick-fil-a peach bowl UW vs. Alabama Viewing Parties Fans will gather all over the country to watch the game. Find a party near you! Link The Graduate School Past events in the Equity & Difference series A series of talks that expose and explain transgressions and struggles—both systematic and personal—experienced by too many in our communities today. alexander nagel , amy smith , graduate school public lectures , Inclusion and Impact: Promoting Creativity and Design Strategies in International Development , innovation , lectures , the renaissance elsewhere Link HUSKY HEROES Elisa Pupko and Mike Pope Say “Why Not” to Being a Force for Social Good Elisa Pupko and Mike Pope found inspiration at the UW and are paying it forward by serving the community. Elisa Pupko , Husky Experience , Jackie McMurtrie , Lincoln Johnson , Mike Pope , new york huskies , public service , scholarship , Shanga Parker Link In review Thanks for the Memories Learn about the top 10 highlights of 2017 coming to you from the UWAA. Link student scholarhips 2016 Homecoming Court We were proud to give the 2016 Homecoming Scholarships to six students who represent the best of the Husky spirit. Link FOSTER SCHOOL Gary Wipfler, ’81, Receives Foster School Distinguished Leadership Award Apple VP and corp. treasurer, Gary Wipfler, '81, is the 67th recipient of this award. Apple , business , Foster School , Gary Wipfler Link 2016 DAVA recipient 2016 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Gen. Peter Chiarelli, M.P.A. ’80, U.S. Army Iraq veteran, General, Army Vice Chief of Staff & champion of wounded heroes. Link UWAA Board Introducing Jeff Adams, Your UWAA Geographic Trustee Get to know alumnus and UWAA Geographic Trustee Jeff Adams, '04. Link DC DAWGS DC Dawgs: How to Make It in DC 2016 Mentors These professionals will offer career mentoring during the Dec. 6 DC event. mentors , networking Link Husky 509 Spreading the word On September 22, UW College of Arts and Sciences Dean Robert Stacey traveled to Spokane. Link Husky 509 UW Board of Regents meets in Spokane See pictures for the UW Board of Regents meeting in Spokane. Link In review Celebrating the art and inspiration of Tieton See pictures from the Mighty Tieton Block Party, the arts festival for UW alumni in this hidden gem in Central Washington. Link Veterans Appreciation Week Seeds of Hope In the name of holistic mental health, Christopher Brown, '16, created Growing Veterans, an organization that reconnects veterans to each other—and to life. Link Veterans Appreciation Documents that Changed the World: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, 1982 The Vietnam Memorial, designed by alum Maya Lin, is many things to many people. Link Veterans Appreciation By Veterans, for Veterans Graduate student and veteran Lindsay Zike wanted to help others make the transition from soldier to student. The Office of Student Veteran Life is doing just that. Link Veterans Appreciation Week UW Medicine MEDEX Northwest Tillman Scholarships MEDEX Northwest has been helping veterans enter the PA profession since 1969. Link Veterans Appreciation Week Detrek Jones: Army Veteran, Future Lawyer An Army veteran, Detrek Jones wants to use his experience to help others. Link Veterans Appreciation Foster Veterans Association Dedicated to the support of Foster MBA students that serve in the armed forces. Link Join today Be loyal. Be a member. Be part of a 56,000-strong Husky community Link Join today Be a champion. Be a member. Huskies@Work connects students and alumni in the career world Link Join today Be purple. Be a member. Be part of a community of Huskies like you Link BAY AREA HUSKIES MathChat Helps Students Succeed with Math Sam Woodard, '13, co-founded MathChat, a Bay Area-based company with an app that lets students help each other with math. education , education inequality , math , MathChat , Sam Woodard , startups , technology Link Enter to win on social media Dawg Dash Photo Contest Official rules for the Dawg Dash Photo Contest, taking place September 26-30 and featuring a Homecoming prize pack from Alaska Airlines. Link columns magazine Come back to campus Each year, thousands of alumni come back—some to start a company, research a book, or imprint campus on their kids. Link UW tradition Homecoming 2016 Come back and celebrate all things UW: Oct. 20-23. Link race and equity Alumni-Student Seminar: Interrupting Privilege Learn about the latest offering of this seminar connecting alumni and students, created in collaboration with the UW Center for Communication, Difference, and Equity. Link Student job Apply to be a Student Alumni Ambassador Apply for an exciting, paid student position within the UW Alumni Association. Link Student opportunity Apply to the 2016 Homecoming Court You could represent the UW and its impact on the community at large. Link SoCal Huskies SoCal Huskies: Attend a Studio Taping of “Mom” or “The Great Indoors” and Help Raise Scholarship Funds! Have fun and benefit students! anna faris , comedy , Joe McHale , Mom show , scholarship fund , Southern California , The Great Indoors Link student opportunity Portland Student Career Trek Students! Explore Portland careers at the Portland Student Career Trek. Link Summer Fun 2016 International Student Send-Off Series Celebrate summer with your Husky family at this nationwide series of events. indonesia , international , international sendoff , korea , students , taiwan , thailand Link career connections Bay Area Career Trek brings alumni and students together For a dozen students, Spring Break meant going to California to meet area alumni Link ASLD 2016 Columns Magazine In her element: 2016 ASLD Sally Jewell Sally Jewell, ’78, leads the caretakers of the nation’s public lands and waters. 2016 , asld , columns magazine , sally jewell Link Career connections A day in the life: one student’s experience with Huskies@Work Senior Hannah Meadows shares her experience with Huskies@Work, the UWAA's new job shadowing program. campus , career , Huskies@Work , Job shadowing , students , Young alumni Link The Career Center Alumni Career Accelerator: Summer Series 2016 The Career Center presents Alumni Career Accelerator: Summer Series, a series of events and workshops designed to give your job search and career plans a boost. Created for recent Husky graduates and open to all UW alum Link UW Alumni Tours A Middle East expert rediscovers Egypt with UW Alumni Tours Professor Jere Bacharach has lived in Cairo six months out of the year for the last two decades. But there was still a lot to discover when he toured Egypt with UW Alumni Tours. Egypt , Nile , travel , UW Alumni Tours Link A new generation Grad Toast at the Columns The Class of 2017 Grad Toast is Thursday, June 8 at 6 p.m., and is open to all graduating seniors. All ages welcome. Must register in advance and have valid ID to attend. A columns tradition During the spring and summer Link grad pack Special rate for new grads Sign up for a Grad Pack and get a license plate frame. Don't miss out! Link Summer Fun 2016 UWAA Summer BBQs Celebrate summer with your Husky family at this nationwide series of events. Link columns magazine Rock the New Digs Rock on with KEXP to see what Seattle’s hippest radio station plans next. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Touré Touré talks about his own experiences with microaggressions. at length , equity and difference , mehnaz afridi , podcast , steve scher Link NorCal Huskies Husky profile: Chris Wiggum, ’98 Higher education has two layers: academic experience and life experience. Some alumni like Chris Wiggum, ’98, have found ways to merge both. chid , comparative history of ideas , northern california , pixar , study abroad Link Honoring alumni How UW’s “push-up guy” became a Golden Graduate On April 10, we'll honor those who graduated 50 or more years ago at our Golden Graduates Brunch. We'll also give our inaugural Golden Graduates Distinguished Alumnus Award to Bert Pound. 1966 , alumni , band , bert pound , Brunch , e-news , Golden Graduates , reunion Link Husky Women's Basketball Husky Women’s Basketball at the Final Four For the first time in program history, the UW Husky Women's Basketball team is headed for the NCAA Tournament semi-finals. basketball , final four Link Global Huskies Alumni communities foster UW spirit worldwide Global Husky networks build and grow UW community abroad. alumni chapter , china , global , international , korea , switzerland , thailand Link Eastern WA Research confirms: Husky pride is alive and well in the 509 UW Impact sent out an issue survey to members. Although separated by the Cascades, Eastern and Western Washington Huskies have more in common than you might guess. common-ground Link Husky 509 Foster Goes to Eastern Washington UW’s Foster School of Business helps develop management talent in Eastern WA. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Charles M. Payne Afridi talks about interfaith empathy and "racialization" among Muslim peoples. at length , equity and difference , mehnaz afridi , podcast , steve scher Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with K. Tsianina Lomawaima Lomawaima discusses the power stereotypes hold in our societies. at length , equity and difference , lomawaima , podcast , steve scher Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Mehnaz Afridi Afridi talks about interfaith empathy and "racialization" among Muslim peoples. at length , equity and difference , mehnaz afridi , podcast , steve scher Link Husky 509 Ricardo Valdez’s Yakima Homecoming Ricardo Valdez is no stranger to the distinctions east and west of the Cascades. Link Department of psychology Connecting the Dots Between Research and the Community Learn about strategies—in the doctor’s office and in the classroom—for ensuring that children get the autism-specialized services they need. Link boundless learning Public Lectures Featuring leading minds from the UW and around the nation. Link Public Lectures The Graduate School Public Lectures Visionary academics and personalities discuss an array of timely topics. graduate school public lectures , lectures Link college of the environment NASA-funded consortium supports science education Learn more about this new UW-based program. education , K-12 , montana , NASA , oregon , STEM Link New York Huskies Get ready for 2016 Dawg Dash NYC Dawg Dash NYC takes place May 7 - register today! 5k , dawg dash , race Link BE TOGETHER Class of 1967 50-year Reunion Join your fellow Class of 1967 grads for an evening of memories and spirit. 1967 , reunion Link Making a difference Partnering for safe water Eric Stowe, '01, '03, works to ensure safe water for children in Asia & Africa. africa , asia , children , china , greater good , poverty , safety , water Link New York Huskies Robert Osborne, ’54: The face of Turner Classic Movies Meet one of the world's leading authorities on motion picture history. communications , department of communication , film , movies , New York Link SoCal Huskies SoCal Huskies give back Alumni groups organized service projects for the 2016 MLK Jr. Day of Service. #huskiesserve , community , day of service , mlk , service , Southern California , volunteer Link UW Impact Deep dive: a closer look at the alumni survey UW Impact sent a survey to members asking about the issues that matter to them. UWAA Executive Director Paul Rucker shares what was learned. alumni , higher education , issues , Paul Rucker , survey , UW Impact Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Ralina Joseph Joseph talks identity politics and how equity takes more than diversity alone. at length , equity and difference , podcast , ralina joseph , steve scher Link New York Huskies New York Huskies volunteer opportunities Looking to get more involved with UW activities in New York? New York , new york city , new york huskies , volunteer Link columns magazine Presidential Precedent 29 years ago, Ana Mari Cauce started her UW career as an assistant professor. Today, she goes by another title: president. Link DC Huskies Husky profile: Michael Kilmer, ’01, MSW ’04 Meet an alum who is transforming care management for U.S. veterans. alumni , military , social work , veterans , washington dc Link Making a difference Matching gift raises extra $50k for students BECU is making a matching gift of $50,000 to support scholarships and higher education. Link old weather Climate project uses logbooks from historic whaling ships Ship logs reveal clues about the Arctic's climate over the past two centuries. arctic , climate , research Link Public Lectures The Graduate School Public Lectures Visionary academics and personalities discuss an array of timely topics, from tech integration in the classroom, 21st century China and public discourse on climate science. graduate school public lectures , lectures Link History Lecture Series Excavating Seattle’s histories: Peoples, politics, and place 4 UW scholars chart the social worlds, environments, and political conflicts that shaped the city's past and its present. 2016 , excavating seattle , history lecture series Link Oregon Huskies Husky profile: Thane Cleland, ’87 This Husky has helped build UW community in Portland for the past 20 years. alumni , football , oregon , portland Link DC Huskies How to Make It in DC: 2015 mentors These 12 professionals will offer career mentoring during the Dec. 8 DC event. mentors , networking Link Industry leaders gather at first ever UW Innovation Summit in Shanghai The event brought together leaders from China and the United States. china , innovation , innovation summit , shanghai Link UW, Tsinghua University announce dual degree program through GIX This is the first dual degree program to be announced through GIX. china , gix , global innovation exchange , innovation , technology Link DC Huskies Documents that Changed the World: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, 1982 This UW podcast series explores the origin and meanings of historical documents. history , ischool , maya lin , memorial , podcast , veterans , vietnam , washington dc Link 2015 dava Remarks of a Hero Veterans Day remarks by 2015 DAVA recipient, Col. Margarethe Cammermeyer, M.A. ’76, Ph.D. ’91, U.S. Army (retired.). Link veterans appreciation week New Office of Student Veteran Life coming to campus The UW’s new Office of Student Veteran Life will provide students with programs, access to resources, guidance, and mentors as they transition from military to university life. DP , Dream Project , e-news , enews Link UW, OSU win $4.5 million National Science Foundation nanotechnology grant The schools will partner in nanoscale science, engineering and tech research. engineering , innovation , nanotechnology , oregon , research , science Link veterans appreciation week Military fellow embraces UW experience Lieutenant Colonel Jaren Price’s 20-year military career reads like a world atlas. Now he’s in the best place of all—as the UW’s first-ever Asia-Pacific Military Fellow. Link veterans appreciation week A sergeant works toward a UW degree—in Korea It’s 8 pm. Sergeant Christopher Land opens his laptop in a quiet corner of his off-base apartment near Camp Humphreys in South Korea. Link UW to co-lead West Coast ‘Big Data brain trust’ for National Science Foundation UW, UC San Diego and UC Berkeley will co-lead a NSF Big Data Innovation Hub. big data , innovation , research Link UW in Shanghai China, Revisited Sophomore Jane Yang is tutoring the UW men's basketball team in Mandarin. basketball , china , students , travel , uw in shanghai Link sold out! Public Lectures America in Transformation: 2016 and the Presidency UW professor David Domke delivers insight and historical context to the 2016 presidential election. 2016 , a warm kiss , America in transformation: 2016 and the Presidency , david domke , democratic socialism , department of communication , domke , feel the bern , jeb! , presidential election , SALU , the donald Link veterans appreciation week Helping soldiers tell their stories English Professor Shawn Wong leads storytelling workshops for soldiers transitioning to civilian life, through the Red Badge Project. Link 2015 DAVA recipient 2015 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Col. Margarethe Cammermeyer, M.A. ’76, Ph.D. ’91, U.S. Army Retired Army Col. Grethe Cammermeyer -- nurse, Vietnam veteran, Bronze Star recipient and civil rights champion. Link Nov. 1-11, 2019 Veterans Appreciation We invite you to join us for our annual week of connecting, sharing stories, and showing appreciation for the service of all our UW veterans, past and present. Link veterans appreciation week UW Tacoma: Veterans Incubator for Better Entrepreneurship (VIBE) An innovative new program engages military veterans in an early-stage business development process while they earn a degree. Link EASTERN WA HUSKIES Husky profile: Catherine Brazil, ’90 Catherine Brazil loves “waking up and being able to think about purple all day long.” Link uw impact Advocating for the UW and higher education in the state of Washington Since 2010, UWAA members and alumni from around the state have joined together to stand up for the UW and public higher education. Link UW Bothell veterans appreciation week Military, media, and mariners With his billowing voice, a bristling beard, and unique life experience, Matthew Fieser is a hard student to miss around the UW Bothell campus and in the classroom. Link veterans appreciation week The tattered battle ensign of the destroyer escort USS Samuel B. Roberts On permanent loan from Naval History and Heritage Command, UW NROTC has the battle ensign from the USS Samuel B. Roberts, a WWII destroyer escort. Link Ends Oct. 31 Join the UWAA Fall Membership Drive You know that being a Husky didn’t end when you earned your diploma—you’re a Husky for life. Join by Oct. 31 and get a free gift! drive , fall , fall membership drive , gift , join , membership Link China Huskies Chinese president presents gift to Global Innovation Exchange Read about President Xi Jinping's recent gift to the Global Innovation Exchange. china , gix , global innovation exchange Link Northern CA Huskies Computer science alumnus wins a MacArthur Foundation ‘genius grant’ Christopher Ré, '09, has been named one of 24 MacArthur fellows this year. alumni , awards , computer science Link China Huskies UW and Shanghai Jiao Tong University forge international collaboration on smart cities The two universities will work together on "smart cities" engineering research. china , engineering Link New York Huskies Dawgs on Wall Street celebrates 10 years For a decade, this signature program has featured business and industry leaders. DOWS , New York , new york city , new york huskies , wall street Link boundless learning Public Lectures Featuring leading minds from the UW and around the nation. Link the graduate school Equity & Difference: Rights A series of talks that expose and explain transgressions and struggles—both systematic and personal—experienced by too many in our communities today. graduate school public lectures , home , lectures Link The Graduate School Signature Lectures Visionary academics and personalities from the UW and around the nation discuss an array of topics and themes, from the art of the Renaissance to innovative technologies for international development. alexander nagel , amy smith , graduate school public lectures , Inclusion and Impact: Promoting Creativity and Design Strategies in International Development , innovation , lectures , the renaissance elsewhere Link Public Lectures Surviving Disaster: Natural Hazards & Resilient Communities This series explores the latest developments in social and natural science helping us prepare for, respond to and survive environmental disasters, wherever they strike. A Tale of Three Seattle Temblors: One Big , David R. Montgomery , How to Lead and Succeed When It Matters Most , Jake Wood , Jed Horne , John Vidale , Kate Starbird , lectures , One Deep and One Direct Hit , Social Media Use During Disaster Events: The Evolving Role of the Connected Crowd in Response and Resilience , Surviving Disaster: Natural Hazards & Resilient Communities , Ten Years After Katrina: Lessons Learned and Unlearned Link Astronomy Lecture Series The Big Bang and Beyond Three top UW faculty members join noted science communicator Adam Frank, ’92, in this celebration of the UW Astronomy Department's 50-year legacy of exploring the wonder and grandeur of the stars. adam frank , andy connolly , Astronomy , astronomy lecture series , connolly , dalcanton , frank , innovation , julianne dalcanton , lectures , miguel morales , morales Link China Huskies The China design connection Students from UW and Southeast University in Nanjing exchange work and ideas. art , china , design , exchange , students Link DC Huskies Alumni play key roles at Library of Congress Find out from these alums what it's like to work at the Library of Congress. alumni , ischool , library of congress , washington dc Link New York Huskies Husky profile: Libby Readel Leahy, ’05 Meet an alumna who's been integral to the success of Dawg Dash NYC. alumni , dawg dash , New York , new york city Link New York Huskies Caitlin Grady receives 2015 UWAA New York scholarship Meet Caitlin Grady, the 2015 UWAA New York scholarship recipient. New York , scholarships , students Link Grade A: Study Agriculture at the UW Farm The UW Farm is a study in sustainable urban agriculture. Link China Huskies Pioneering partnership: Global Innovation Exchange Through GIX, the UW and Tsinghua University create a groundbreaking partnership. china , gix , innovation , microsoft , technology Link Southern CA Huskies Husky profile: Shio Kusaka, ’01, & Jonas Wood, ’02 Meet two Huskies whose stars in the art world are rising dramatically. art , school of art , Southern California Link China Huskies The UW in Shanghai this November UW Innovation Summit and Pac-12 China Game bring the Husky experience to China. basketball , china , innovation , shanghai Link ASLD 2015 Alumni profile Norm Dicks, Retired? You Must Be Joking. His 36-year career as a Democratic Congressman for Washington’s 6th District may have ended in 2012, but he’s still on the case protecting wildlife and fighting to bolster the economy in his native region. Link DC Huskies Alumna named to 2015 U.S. News STEM Leadership Hall of Fame Shirley Malcom, ’67, is honored for making STEM education accessible to girls. science , washington dc Link columns magazine Soulbound: Zambia UW Alumni Tours takes travelers to destinations all over the world. But it’s the journeys inward that reveal the heart of the traveler. alumni , global health , tour , traveler , zambia Link columns magazine Soulbound: Cambodia A UW alum and Alumni Tours traveler teaches English in a Cambodian orphanage. alumni , cambodia , tour , traveler Link China Huskies Husky profile: Zhao-Rong Chen, ’99 Zhao-Rong Chen has been instrumental in strengthening the relationship between the UW and China. china Link Husky Presidential Ambassadors mentorship program kicks off in China The UW brings freshman mentorship to China for the first time in history. china , student send-off Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Kathy Najimy Najimy discusses drawing inspiration from 1970's feminism, everyday prejudice in Hollywood and how women could change the world if they weren't constantly struggling against society's expectations for body image. at length , Kathy Najimy , podcast , steve scher , weight and wellness , women and body image Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Regina M. Benjamin, M.D., M.B.A., 18th Surgeon General Benjamin discusses rediscovering "the joy in being healthy," the inevitable controversies of thinking outside the box and the origins of public health missions in America. Advice from America’s Doctor , at length , graduate school public lectures , learn , lecture , Regina Benjamin , steve scher , weight , weight and wellness Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Adam Drewnowski Drewnowski discusses the correlation between food, money and health, the strategies of "nutritional resilience," and the "growing body of evidence that obesity in America is largely an economic issue." at length with steve scher , drewnowski , graduate school public lectures , health and incomes , lecture , obesity and poverty: linking food , podcast , steve scher , weight , weight and wellness Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Ellen Schur Schur discusses the significance and implications of where we carry extra pounds, the big health gains of small-scale weight loss and how our physiology and body systems are dramatically altered by weight gain. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Shiriki Kumanyika Dr. Kumanyika discusses the evolving landscape and presence of obesity within African-American demographics and giving people the tools to understand the health implications of their personal choices. at length , kumanyika , lecture , obesity lessons learned at home and around the world , podcast , steve scher , weight and wellness Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Bruce Blumberg In this conversation with Steve Scher, Dr. Blumberg discusses obesogens, the hormone-disrupting chemicals that seem to change human metabolism. at length , Bruce Blumberg , lecture , obesogens , obesogens: how chemical exposure may cause obesity , podcast , scher , steve scher Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Sonia Nazario Nazario discusses her fraught and illuminating journey accompanying Central American minors atop Mexican freight trains and how U.S. policy will decide the fate of these children. at length , enrique's journey and america's immigration dilemma , graduate school public lectures , lecture , nazario , podcast , pulitzer prize , sonia nazario , steve scher Link Southern CA Huskies UW students explore communications careers in Los Angeles Undergrads visit Los Angeles to meet with alumni and learn about career paths. communications , Los Angeles , Southern California Link Southern CA Huskies UW alum David Horsey on editorial cartooning in volatile times David Horsey, '75, is a two-time Pulitzer prize-winning editorial cartoonist. Los Angeles , Southern California Link Careers Leveraging LinkedIn, Eastern Washington Make the most of your LinkedIn profile at one of three UWAA Leveraging LinkedIn events around the Puget Sound. career , linkedin , spokane , tri-cities , yakima Link Summer Fun 2015 UWAA Summer BBQs Celebrate summer with your Husky family at this nationwide series of events. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Michael Pollan Michael Pollan has helped move food issues toward the center of American politics. His books and articles have focused on how the foods we eat shape our health, environment and culture. at length , at length with steve scher , learn , lecture , michael pollan , Our National Eating Disorder , podcast , steve scher Link spring issue UW's diversity publication Viewpoint Magazine Stories and profiles of students, faculty & alumni who are making a difference. diversity , magazine , publications , viewpoint Link DC Huskies Alumna advocates for English language learners When Libia Gil, ’89, arrived in the United States, she spoke only a few words of English. education , washington dc Link DC Huskies Husky profile: Emanuel Rouvelas, ’65 “The University of Washington introduced me to two of the most important people in my life,” Emanuel Rouvelas says of his wife of 47 years, Marilyn, and his longtime friend and mentor Gerald Grinstein. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Christoph Bode Bode discusses growing up in a book-loving German anglophile family, the purpose of "difficult" novels and literature and how one should "never approach a book with too much respect." at length , at length with steve scher , christoph bode , From Event to Node: How ‘Future Narratives’ Impact the Way We Imagine and Shape the Future , graduate school public lectures , podcast , steve scher Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Eric Avila In this conversation with Steve Scher, Avila discusses the Freeway Revolts of the 1960s, the “coded, tacit” terminology of racism today and the meaning of George Clinton’s song “Chocolate Cities.” at length , at length with steve scher , Chocolate Cities and Vanilla Suburbs: Race , eric avila , graduate school public lectures , learn , podcast , Space and American Culture After World War II , steve scher Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Mark Morris Morris discusses his influences, how he runs the Mark Morris Dance Center as "an open buffet of dancing and music," how all music "doesn't automatically make you want dance to it" and more. at length , at length with steve scher , conversation , dancing beyond boundaries , graduate school public lectures , lectures , mark morris , morris , podcast , scher , steve scher Link DC Huskies DC Dawgs Annual Events Come together to learn, socialize and network with other Huskies in Washington, D.C.! Link UWAA Stories Boundless blossoms Each spring the Quad’s cherry blossoms attract alumni, students and tourists. Clutching smartphones and cameras, crowds turn out to pose with the posies. Link DC Huskies Translating passion into profession Meet an alumna whose passions have led her to serve with humanitarian organizations, U.S. Congress and Bitcoin. washington dc Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Jill Cornell Tarter Tarter talks about the struggle in bridging public imagination and public funding, how SETI is "archaeology of the future," and why we need to stop expecting to find extraterrestrial intelligent life on dry land. aliens , at length , at length with steve scher , conversation , jill cornell tarter , podcast , Present and Future — Finding Aliens and Finding Ourselves , search for extraterrestrial intelligence , SETI , SETI: Past , steve scher , the truth is out there Link oregon huskies Oregon Huskies annual events The UW Portland alumni chapter strives to bring UW alumni and friends together to learn, socialize and network in the Portland area. Lunch and Learn The Portland Lunch and Learn is a great opportunity to learn about the Link oregon huskies Husky profile: Joe Boyle, ’03 Purple and gold may seem unique in Oregon, but alumnus Joe Boyle wears them proudly. Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Marc Rotenberg Rotenberg discusses the balancing privacy and practicality, contemplating the constitution in times of fear and unrest and the "incredibly creepy" picture emerging through violations of data privacy. at length , at length with stever scher , graduate school public lectures , learn , lecture , marc rotenberg , rotenberg , steve scher , Watching the Watchers: Fighting Back in an Age of Ubiquitous Surveillance Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Dolores Huerta Huerta speaks about what inspired her to become an organizer, solidarity with Japanese-Americans in the wake of WWII's internment camps and founding the United Farm Workers Association with Cesar Chavez. an evening with dolores huerta , at length , at length with steve scher , dolores huerta , huerta , learn , lecture , podcast Link At Length with Stever Scher At Length with Michael Levitt Levitt expands on the staggering possibilities for medical advancement brought about by computing power, the surprising link between video games and microbiology and the extraordinary value of being "kind and good." at length , at length with steve scher , at-length-with-steve-scher-olympia-snowe , learn , lecture , levitt , michael levitt , scher , steve scher , The Birth and Future of Multi-Scale Modeling of Macromolecules Link southern ca huskies Alum Pete Chiarelli’s ‘terrifying’ move to L.A. leads to screenwriting success Perhaps most well-known for writing “The Proposal” under the fake name Jennifer Kirby, alumnus Pete Chiarelli, '96, has found success in Los Angeles. Los Angeles , Southern California Link Columns Magazine Ring leaders It's a drizzling Monday night in early October and you can hear the UW boxing team long before you can see them: “Who are we? Huskies! What are we? Boxers! What do we do? Knock ’em out!” Link Listen Now! podcast series At Length with Steve Scher At Length host Steve Scher speaks with some of the world's leading minds about a variety of topics and issues, ranging from politics, science, art, culture and beyond. at length , at length with steve scher , graduate school public lectures , huerta , learn , lecture , lectures , levitt , rotenberg , scher , snowe , steve scher Link history lecture series The Great War and the modern world Online videos now available! Find links below for the entire lecture series. The war that broke out in 1914 was both a global war and a total war. When it was over, it had left few beliefs unshaken. The status... history , lecture , video Link northern ca huskies Science for the people: research funding revolutionized Meet Denny Luan,’11 and Cindy Wu, ’11, creators of Experiment, a platform for scientists to generate crowd-sourced funding and for the public to give directly to research that matters to them. bay area , northern california , science Link Southern CA Huskies Southern CA Huskies annual events The Los Angeles/Orange County chapters strive to bring UW alumni and friends together to learn, socialize and network in the area. Find out what is happening near you! Link graduate school public lectures Weight & Wellness As the sophistication of science and medicine advances, our understanding of health and wellness for individuals, families and nations grows beyond the mere measure of waistlines. Adam Drewnowski , Bruce Blumberg , Ellen Schur , grad school lectures , graduate school lectures , health , Kathy Najimy , learn , learning , lecture , lectures , michael pollan , Regina M. Benjamin , Shiriki Kumanyika , weight , wellness Link UWAA community Multicultural Alumni Partnership Founded in 1994, the Multicultural Alumni Partnership is dedicated to promoting diversity at the UW and in the UW alumni community. MAP , Multicultural Alumni Partnership , scholarships Link columns magazine Birth of an anthem As the USS Congress pulled into San Francisco Bay on Nov. 4, 1915, UW football fans onboard held a boisterous rally on the foredeck under purple and gold streamers strung everywhere from the giant steamship’s rigging. Link Columns Magazine The new dawn of dialysis Jim and Eleanor Church’s bedroom looks like the back room of a shoe store. Stacked against a wall are dozens of brown boxes, holding gallons of dialysis fluid that help remove waste products from Jim’s blood. Link define alumni It’s being there: Marcie, ’69, ’76, & Dave, ’68, Stone “We didn’t have children of our own, so we keep telling people we’ve adopted all 40,000 UW students,” Marcie Stone said. dave stone , marcie stone , stone Link define alumni It’s being there: Janet Phan “Time is the most precious gift," said Janet Phan, ’09, ‘13. “Without all of the time and knowledge people have given me, I wouldn’t be where I am today.” Link Southern CA Huskies Husky profile: Gary, ’73 & Susan Duck, ’73 Gary and Susan Duck’s love for the UW with their love for each other. As graduate students, friends arranged a set-up; after a few dates to coffee shops and the cinema on The Ave, they became college sweethearts. ca huskies , la/oc huskies Link At Length with Steve Scher At Length with Olympia Snowe Former U.S. Senator Olympia Snowe discusses the waning influence of congressional committees, the Affordable Care Act and her role in grooming a new generation of Washington centrists. at length , at length with steve scher , interview , olympia snowe , podcast , snowe , steve scher Link northern ca huskies Bay Area Huskies annual events The Bay Area Alumni Chapter strives to bring UW alumni and friends together to learn, socialize and network in the Bay Area. Find out what is happening near you! Link northern ca huskies Husky profile: Jeff Adams, ’04 JEFF ADAMS, ’04, MBA, BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Jeff Adams had a Ph.D. in civil engineering and was working at engineering consultancy, Engeo, when he decided to pursue an MBA at the University of Washington’s Fost Link Columns Magazine Alumni profile: Stephanie Ogle, owner of Cinema Books Cinema Books owner Stephanie Ogle, ’71, ’81, is passionate about storytelling both on the page and screen. books , cinema , Columns , ogle Link Psychology Lecture series The psychological science of inequity and inequality How can advances in the field of psychology contribute to a more just society? These free lectures discuss the latest research on factors affecting quality of life for underrepresented and non-majority individuals. Link UWAA Home Washington Commons Washington Commons is the University of Washington Alumni Association's gift in thanks for the many years of support from alumni and friends of the university, and in anticipation of many more years to come. Washington Commons Link 2013 DSA recipient Bryan Pearce, 2013 Distinguished Service Award Bryan Pearce was a good man. He was a husband and a father, the CEO of the company, a force in both the business of independent and college bookstores, a devoted graduate and supporter of the University of Washington. Link 2014 DAVA recipient 2014 Distinguished Alumni Veteran Richard Layton, ’54, ’58, U.S. Navy In 1946, Richard H. Layton, M.D. ’54, ’58, was a Second Class Petty Officer headed to Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands on a top-secret mission. Link 2014 ASLD Recipient Art Levinson, ’72 A rare combination of dedicated laboratory experience and business leadership launched Art Levinson, '72, into the upper echelons of the biotechnology industry. Link the graduate school Winter 2015 Graduate School Public Lectures Exploring an array of topics and themes, the Graduate School Public Lectures reimagine the way we tell stories and create art, as well as how we define our communities and our place in the universe. Link UWAA Member App Membership at your fingertips Not only is it the best way to keep on top of the latest benefits and events, the app has a virtual member card you can use straight from your phone! Link Columns Magazine A keen eye for design drives a doughnut dynasty Brothers Michael and Mark Klebeck, the brains behind Top Pot Doughnuts, definitely have something going on. More than 10 years since opening their first café, people are still going nuts for their product. Columns Link UWAA History 1975: Public lectures bring alumni to campus UW history professor Giovanni Costigan, inaugural recipient of the UWAA’s Distinguished Teaching Award, was a popular figure among students and alumni. Link UWAA History 1966: Community begins The Alumni Fund As the Baby Boom generation became college-aged, the University had to scramble to construct new buildings for housing and classrooms to keep up with demand. Link UWAA History 1889: UW Alumni Association is founded Amid the bustle of Washington's impending statehood, a small group of UW alumni united to support the UW and stay connected to campus and each other. Link ny huskies New York Huskies Annual Events Learn, socialize and network with fellow Huskies in the New York City area. Link NY Huskies Career kickstart: students visit the big apple Last fall, eight eager students majoring in Communication traveled to New York City to learn about different career paths and expand their professional networks. communications , video Link NY Huskies Husky profile: Ron Simons, ’01 Ron Simons knows a thing or two about stories. Not only does he help create them as producer of works on both screen and stage—he’s lived a fascinating story himself. drama , NY Huskies , NYC Link UW Alumni Facebook UW Alumni Twitter UW Alumni Instagram UW Alumni LinkedIn CONTACT UWAA: 206-543-0540 uwalumni@uw.edu About UWAA Join University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA