Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search More Information Ithaca, NY climate data National Weather Service forecast for Ithaca AccuWeather forecast and radar for Ithaca Weather.com (from The Weather Channel) Regional Radar (from Intellicast.com) The Weather Underground Astronomical Data online (U.S. Naval Observatory) Related Information University Operating Status Addressing Inclement Weather Challenges for Individuals with Disabilities Ithaca Weather Current Conditions 79°F 26°C Partly Cloudy Relative humidity: 62% Wind: 8.1 from the North Atmospheric Pressure: 29.91 in. Hg (1012.3 hPa) Last Updated on Jun 1 2022, 11:56 am EDT National Weather Service Forecast » Hazardous Weather Outlook This Afternoon: Showers and thunderstorms likely, mainly after 5pm. Some of the storms could produce small hail, gusty winds, and heavy rain. Partly sunny, with a high near 86. Northwest wind around 7 mph. Chance of precipitation is 60%. New rainfall amounts between a quarter and half of an inch possible. Tonight: Showers and thunderstorms likely before midnight, then showers likely and possibly a thunderstorm between midnight and 1am, then a chance of showers and thunderstorms after 1am. Some of the storms could produce small hail, gusty winds, and heavy rain. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 58. North wind around 5 mph becoming light and variable. Chance of precipitation is 60%. New rainfall amounts between a tenth and quarter of an inch, except higher amounts possible in thunderstorms. Thursday: A chance of showers and thunderstorms before 5pm, then a slight chance of showers. Mostly cloudy, with a high near 73. Calm wind becoming northwest around 6 mph in the afternoon. Chance of precipitation is 30%. New rainfall amounts of less than a tenth of an inch, except higher amounts possible in thunderstorms. Thursday Night: A chance of showers before 8pm, then a chance of showers and thunderstorms between 8pm and 2am, then a slight chance of showers after 2am. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 52. Northwest wind around 5 mph becoming calm in the evening. Chance of precipitation is 50%. New rainfall amounts between a tenth and quarter of an inch, except higher amounts possible in thunderstorms. Friday: Sunny, with a high near 71. Northwest wind 6 to 10 mph, with gusts as high as 21 mph. Friday Night: Mostly clear, with a low around 50. Saturday: Sunny, with a high near 67. Saturday Night: Mostly clear, with a low around 46. Sunday: Mostly sunny, with a high near 72. Sunday Night: Mostly cloudy, with a low around 56. Monday: A chance of showers. Partly sunny, with a high near 76. Chance of precipitation is 50%. Monday Night: A chance of showers. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 58. Chance of precipitation is 50%. Tuesday: A chance of showers. Partly sunny, with a high near 71. Chance of precipitation is 40%. Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube