Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Chemistry About Programs People Research Resources Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate AdvisingBS, Chemistry MajorBS, Chemistry, Biochemistry conc.BS in Chemistry (ACS Approved)BS in Chemistry, Biochemistry conc.Chemistry MinorCourses and InformationPermit RequestsScholarships & AwardsStudent Members of ACS (SMACS)Research OpportunitiesNSF REU Program Graduate Ph. D. ChemistryMaster of Science in ChemistryCoursesAdvisingAssistantshipsApply! Take Action Apply to the Department of Chemistry Contact us! Seminar Schedule Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home Department of Chemistry Programs Student Members of the American Chemical Society (SMACS) The Student Members of the American Chemical Society (SMACS) at the University of Memphis is a chartered student and faculty-led organization dedicated to all degree levels of the sciences, specifically chemistry. We inform our members of careers in chemistry, including—but not limited to—industrial, education, and health professions to further knowledge of the sciences for preparation in these promising fields. SMACS works alongside other STEM groups on campus to stimulate scientific thinking in young minds and to promote the study of chemistry in schools around the city of Memphis through service-learning. The purpose of SMACS is to provide outreach programs to local schools, tutor students enrolled in chemistry courses, and present insightful research through seminars from guest speakers about current topics and careers in chemistry. The Student Members of the American Chemical Society have the opportunity to network by volunteering with the regional and national ACS section to increase regional involvement with fellow chemistry students and faculty. The 2020-2021 officers are: Kyle Bledsoe - President Yao Gao - Secretary Connor Brown - Treasurer Martin Guerrero - Activities Chair COVID-19 has messed up our schedule of events for Spring and Fall 2020. Stop by the ACS main office in Smith Hall 105 or email Dr. DeYonker get in touch with the officers and join SMACS today! We encourage all of our student members to join the National American Chemical Society. Learn more about the benefits of being an ACS member here. View the constitution and by-laws > Fall 2020 EVENTS: Introductory mass meeting on September 10th at 12-1 PM Virtual lab tour of Smith Chemistry on September 15th at 1-2 PM Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 1/18/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.