Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift Academics Students About Us/Contact Research People Civil Engineering Our mission is to create an inclusive, supportive, and engaging environment for our students to become career-ready Civil Engineering professionals prepared to have a global impact. We partner with alumni and industry to underpin society and create valued solutions to address society’s grand challenges by proactively expanding our students’ perspectives through scholarship, teaching, research, and outreach. Virtual Tour REGISTER FOR VIRTUAL VISIT Women in STEM Miranda Grice Recipient of Prestigious NSF Fellowship Miranda Grice, a graduate student in civil engineering from Burlington, Wisconsin, has focused her academic career on finding solutions to reducing the waste created by the demolishing and rebuilding of single-purpose buildings. Grice’s research has combined her passions for sustainability, environmental consciousness, and construction. READ MORE Jane McLamarrah inducted into the Thomas Green Clemson Academy Jane A. McLamarrah left her mark on history in 1985 when she became the first woman to receive a Ph.D. in civil engineering from Clemson University. McLamarrah now serves as vice president of global engineering design firm Stantec. She credits communication skills, interpersonal relationships, and the ability to develop new skills for her success. Membership in the academy is the highest honor bestowed by Clemson’s College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences. READ MORE Top News May 03 Jennifer Ogle blazes a trail for women at Clemson University and beyond Read More May 02 Rocha Named Division I All-American by National Collegiate Rugby Read More Apr 28 Top students honored by College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences Read More Mar 16 In career search, Ph.D. student Matthew Sheppard asks, ‘Where can I make the most difference?’ Read More Copyright © Clemson University Glenn Department of Civil Engineering | Lowry Hall, Clemson, SC 29634 (864) 656-3000 | Email Us