Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Welcome to the UW Family! Behind every Husky, there’s a pack of loved ones, mentors and supporters who helped them reach this milestone. We’re so glad you’re here. Connect with us Welcome to the UW Family Your role in your student’s life may be shifting, but it’s just as important as ever. We’re here to provide you with the resources you need to help your Husky make the most of their UW experience. On these pages, you’ll find information on everything from financial aid to campus life to health and safety protocols. You and your Husky are about to embark on a life-changing journey. Welcome to the UW family! Join our Facebook group to connect with other UW parents and family members. READ THE LATEST UW PARENT INSIDER May 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 Reimagining campus safety Sign Up for Emails Reimagining safety at the UW Creating learning, working and living environments that enable every UW community member to be successful requires a holistic approach to safety and well-being. We are reimagining how safety and well-being resources are organized and delivered at the UW. Provide Your Feedback News New Family Orientation Welcome to our UW Family! If you are one of our new families, you can learn more about programs, resources, and how to help your Husky have a successful start during their first year at UW. New Family Orientation registration opens May 11, 2022. Learn about orientation Events Commencement You did it! Graduation is a special time for students and families. We’re making up for lost time and celebrating even more this year, with Commencement ceremonies for the Class of 2022, and a special Return to Husky graduation celebration for the Class of 2020 and 2021. Class of 2022 Class of 2020 & 2021 Info Parent & Family Guide Dive into everything the UW has to offer your student — and you. Our Parent & Family Guide offers a comprehensive overview of academic, wellness, and safety resources. We’ve updated our guide to include important dates and deadlines. Get the guide PROVOST TOWN HALL UW Provost and Executive Vice President Mark Richards discussed excellence in teaching and learning; advancing diversity, equity and inclusion; and post-pandemic challenges and opportunities during a livestream event on Tuesday, February 15. My Husky is a... Transfer Student International Student Out-of-state Student First-gen Student First-year Student Sophomore/Junior Graduating Student Support the Husky Experience Your philanthropic support strengthens every student’s UW experience. The UW Parent & Family Fund makes it possible for us to provide critical programs and resources, like the student emergency fund and 24/7 access to mental health counselors. Find Out More Connect With Us Meet Program Director Jannah Maresh Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Instagram Email us at uwparent@uw.edu Email Us Stay Informed Get regular updates about what’s happening at UW and family support tips by signing up for the Parent Insider newsletter. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA