Skip to main content Google Tag Manager The University of Virginia SIS Collab Email Jobs Info For Alumni & Friends Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Search form Search Close Main Menu Main menu About Us Go to About Us Charlottesville & Beyond Facts & Figures Visit Academics Go to Academics Schools Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies International Studies Continuing & Executive Education Academic Calendar J-Term & Summer Session Undergraduate Majors Online Learning Admission Undergraduate Admission Apply Tuition & Affordability Undergraduate Majors & Programs Clubs & Activities Sports & Recreation Student-Self Governance Housing & Residence Life What’s Next for UVA’s Class of 2022? Arts Athletics Health System Libraries Research You are here Home Parents X UVA Parents Your Child’s Future Starts Here A University of Virginia degree is an investment in the future. Consistently ranked among the best public universities in the nation, UVA offers a world-class education and student experience – set within a UNESCO World Heritage site. As a student at the University, your child will have the close support and mentorship of the highest caliber faculty in their fields. They will be part of a unique student population that governs itself, gaining a lasting sense of responsibility and initiative. And when they graduate, your child will have access to a worldwide network of engaged UVA alumni, nearly a quarter-million strong. Start Here > By the Numbers #4 Public University in the Nation, 2021 U.S. News #2 Best-Value Public University, 2021 U.S. News & World Report $66K Average Early Career Salary, PayScale.com Leadership, Service and Mentorship Creating Leaders Students at UVA participate in a variety of forms of self-governance—from the Honor Committee, to the Judiciary Committee, to Student Council and beyond. Dedicated To Service Volunteering is an enormous part of UVA culture. Each year, students log a collective 100,000+ service hours. Faculty Involvement At UVA, faculty members engage with students beyond the classroom, offering frequent and time-honored opportunities for collaboration, discussion and exchange. Access and Affordability Ensuring an Excellent Education is Affordable We were founded as a public university, open to all who have the talent and ability to move society forward. For that reason, we are committed to meeting 100% of demonstrated need for every admitted student. In fact, UVA is one of only two public universities in the nation to offer both a need-blind admission process and a commitment to cover 100% of a student’s demonstrated financial need—a commitment that goes back to the reasons we were founded. For more information on affordability and financial aid at UVA, go to Affording UVA. Additional Information Office of Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs Communications Student Financial Services Vice President & Chief Student Affairs Officer University of Virginia Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Footer Utilities Non-Discrimination Notice UVA Tuition Notice Wise Tuition Notice Consumer Information Accessibility Emergency SIS FOIA Privacy © 2022 By The Rector And Visitors Of The University Of Virginia