Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Admitted Students Guide: Financing Graduate School Graduate School Skip to Navigation Admitted Students Guide: Financing Graduate School admitted students home The Brown University Graduate School makes every effort to provide its students with adequate financial support. Incoming doctoral students are guaranteed five years of financial support, which includes a stipend, tuition remission, health services fee, and a health-insurance subsidy. To ensure you receive the first available stipend payment, please see this stipend primer and take the described steps. Master’s students do not typically receive financial support, although some programs offer it when possible. Master's students in some programs are required to complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or a CSS Profile through the College Board in order to receive a financial award. Please check with your program to determine if either of these applications is required. Financial information about individual students is treated confidentially. Your official letter of admission provides details on your funding packages (i.e., the number of years and levels of support). All promises of financial support are subject to a student making satisfactory academic progress as determined by their program of study. If you have a question or concern about funding, please contact your program's director of graduate studies. Expenses Brown University requires payment of tuition and fees by August 1 for first-semester obligations and by January 1 for second-semester obligations. Students who fail to make payment in full by these deadlines will be assessed a late-payment charge. Outstanding balances greater than $1,000 will prevent students from pre-registering for the subsequent semester. Students will receive notification of such balances via the monthly student account statement. All costs can be found on the bursar’s website. Office of Financial Aid 69 Brown Street (401) 863-2721 [email protected] All tuition and fees for the following academic year will be available in late February/early March. Financial Aid Awards Approved financial aid awards, except for stipends, reduce the amount of the required payment of tuition and fees. Therefore, students with approved financial aid awards, will not be assessed late charges provided their balance due after these awards is remitted on time. No scholarships or loan funding can be used to pay late payment charges. Student Loans To supplement other forms of support that may be available at Brown, student loans are available for both domestic and international students. Loan borrowing is initiated by the student through the Office of Financial Aid. Students who are U.S. citizens or permanent residents may be eligible for federal student loans. A FAFSA is required to be submitted online. The Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan program provides up to $20,500 per year to eligible applicants. Students enrolled in degrees associated with the School of Public Health may be eligible for $33,000 per year. Students can also apply for the credit based Federal PLUS loan after completing the FAFSA as well. For students without full Brown funding, international and US citizens may also have the ability to apply for credit-based private education loans through the lender of their choice. More information is available about private loans on the Loan Office website or by writing to [email protected]. Details about applying for any education loan, financing options, and a listing of external funding sources are also available from the Graduate Financial Aid website. Admitted students can also contact a financial aid counselor in person or by phone. Fellowship Opportunities Students can also seek external grants. The Graduate School posts additional fellowship opportunities on its Twitter account. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants