Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Living & Resources Graduate School Skip to Navigation Living & Resources Navigating Brown and the Area Many Brown offices are involved in providing resources that support training, research, professional development and student life. Consult the pages in this section for information about student life, both inside and outside the University. On the Graduate Student Resources page, you can see myriad resources organized by academics, health & wellness, and the graduate student experience . Student groups can enrich the experience at Brown. See a list of student groups on the Graduate Student Council page. If you have specific student support concerns or questions, you can also contact Student Support Services or the Graduate School's Associate Dean of Student Support. See also the Code of Student Conduct. Living & Resources Links Providence & RI Providence, Rhode Island, is a place of distinctive people, original thinking, and local pride. Lucky for you, Brown is right in the middle of it all. Housing Finding a place to call home in a new city can be an adventure. Whether you want to live on campus or close to the University for an easy commute, or out a little further with a yard for the kids, these resources can help. Offices & Resources Brown University provides a wide range of personal, professional, and academic support services to the student body, faculty, and community through a variety of campus-based offices and centers. Campus Facilities The main campus occupies 151.7 acres on the East Side of Providence and in the Knowledge District, including 243 buildings. Graduate Student Council The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is the primary political and social body for graduate students at Brown. Sexual Misconduct & Title IX Information and resources on the University policy, what to do if you have been assaulted, how to report an incident and prevention and education. Family Resources For graduate students and postdocs who have children or are thinking about having children, these pages can help guide you to family-related policies and campus and external resources. International Students Brown’s Graduate School attracts students from all over the world, providing rich opportunities to learn and collaborate in our increasingly global community. Crisis Support Friends are often the first to notice that a student might be experiencing distress, there are many resources available to you and all students in the Brown community. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Providence & RI Housing Offices & Resources Campus Facilities Family Resources International Students Crisis Support Food and Related Resources for Graduate Students Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants