More information will be posted here when it becomes available. Emergency215-573-3333 A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Open menu Departments About Our Division Office of the Vice President Finance & Administration Fire & Emergency Services Penn Police Department PennComm & Emergency Communications Security Services Security Technology Special Services Emergency Preparedness PennReady UPennAlert Emergency Notification System Emergency Procedures Safety Initiatives HELP Line: 215-898-HELP Penn Guardian 24/7 Walking Escort Service DPS “Top 10 List” Penn Alternative Response Unit (AR-1) Operation Theft Awareness Self-Defense Courses Bicycle, Motor Vehicle, and Pedestrian Safety Information Clery Annual Security & Fire Safety Report Clery Crime Log CSA Crime Statistics Reporting Data Form Media Videos News and Events Photos Contact General Contact Information DPS Administration Directory Send Us Feedback Commend a Member of DPS Report a Crime Police Complaint Form Silent Witness Form Student Project Request Form Presentation Request Form Request a Special Property Check Menu Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy A-Z Directories Calendar Maps Offices & Services Webmail Special Services Special Services was created alongside the Penn Women’s Center in 1973 in response to calls from students, faculty and staff for greater support and transparency related to interpersonal violence on campus. In our 45+ year history, we have developed close partnerships with the University of Pennsylvania Police Department, the University Life Division specifically the Penn Women’s Center, Student Intervention Services, LGBT Center, Penn Violence Prevention and other cultural resource centers, Wellness at Penn, all 12 schools and centers, as well as the Office of the Associate Vice President for Equity and Title IX. In addition to Penn resources, Special Services liaises with Philadelphia Special Victims Unit, Philadelphia Sexual Assault Response Center (PSARC), District Attorney’s Office, and Criminal and Family Court divisions as well as non-profits like the Clery Center, WOAR: Philadelphia Center Against Sexual Violence, Women Against Abuse, Philadelphia Legal Assistance, Community Legal Services, and more. For all information related to the University and COVID-19, please see Penn’s official Coronavirus resource page. Special Services remains open and available to support you during this time. We are physically in the office during normal business hours to respond to emergencies as well as available by phone, email, or other online video platform. Given the evolving situation with COVID-19, rather than coming in person, we encourage those who can to call and/or email us to reach someone in Special Services. While many of Penn’s physical offices are closed, resources remain available to support you during this time. Additionally, all campus and confidential resources (listed here: https://www.vpul.upenn.edu/pvp/resources.php) remain available to students. Please see their respective websites for availability. If you would like to get in touch with someone at Special Services please call 215-898-4481 or 215-898-6600 (24hrs). Alternatively you can email us at *protected email* ———————————————————————————————- Members of the Penn community may inquire and receive support services when victimized by any type of crime. The investigation of sensitive crimes and incidents, however, such as, rape, sexual assault, relationship or domestic violence, harassment and stalking, is a prominent part of Special Services’ operations. Highly trained personnel are available to offer immediate assistance, including crisis intervention, accompaniment to legal and medical proceedings, options counseling and advocacy, and linkages to other University and community resources, including Penn Police, Student Health Services, Counseling/Psychological Services, Penn Women’s Center, Office of Student Conduct, Office of the Sexual Violence Investigative Officer, Penn Violence Prevention, VPUL (Vice Provost of University Life) as well as city, state and federal resources. Self-Defense Courses Sensitive Crimes Paige Wigginton, Ed.D. Director of Special Services Paige Wigginton is the Director of Special Services within the Division of Public Safety. Special Services is a confidential resource that provides support, options counseling, and medical and court accompaniment to all Penn affiliates. Special Services offers 24/7 on call support, providing critical care to all Penn affiliates for criminal and medical emergencies, Title IX related offenses, and […] Quicklinks Emergency Preparedness 24/7 Walking Escort Theft Awareness RAD Self Defense Courses Penn Guardian UPennAlert Explore Departments Emergency Preparedness University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) Information and Statistics Safety Initiatives Report Accessibility Issues & Get Help Media Clery Contact Privacy Policy Connect with DPS Receive DPS Traffic Advisories Learn About Penn Guardian © 2016 The University of Pennsylvania. 4040 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 215.898.7297 | Contact Us Rotate Your Phone to Portrait Mode Open toolbar Accessibility Tools Increase Text Decrease Text Grayscale High Contrast Negative Contrast Light Background Links Underline Readable Font Reset