Skip to main content Latest COVID information W crest logo for the university Menu menu close Search People and Pages search closeOpen search This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Main Menu Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Athletics About UW Utility Menu MyUW open dropdown menu close dropdown menu MyUW home Email/calendar Canvas Box Google Apps Libraries Map News Visit Apply Jobs Give Admissions & Aid UW–Madison is a world-renowned academic institution, dedicated to making the college experience attainable and affordable for every talented scholar. Being a Badger means dreaming big — and then doing something bigger. Undergraduate admissions Graduate School admissions Affording college Bucky’s Tuition Promise is about so much more than just the bottom line. It brought me to UW–Madison and opened my eyes to a world I didn’t know existed. Tikiri Bandara, a senior from Platteville, Wisconsin, majoring in neurobiology Bucky’s Tuition Promise Cost of attendance Financial aid Scholarships at UW Choose from our top-ranked professional schools UW–Madison's professional schools combine rigorous curricula with real-world experiences to jumpstart your career. School of Business Law School School of Medicine and Public Health School of Pharmacy School of Veterinary Medicine Search professional programs Join a community of lifelong learners Badgers never stop being curious. And that’s why UW–Madison offers opportunities to help you grow as a professional and a person. Adult Career and Special Student Services Badger Precollege Continuing Studies Grandparents University The Odyssey Project Online degree programs Madison, WI: The ultimate college town This is where big-city opportunities meet small-town conveniences. Where vibrant streetscapes lead to lakeside retreats. Where a Big Ten college and capital city blend together, creating an atmosphere unlike anywhere else. Welcome to Madison. Tour campus virtually Explore Madison in every season Annual Security and Fire Safety Report The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report contains current campus safety and disciplinary policies, crime statistics, and on-campus student housing fire safety policies and fire statistics for the previous three calendar years. UW–Madison will provide a paper copy upon request: contact the University of Wisconsin Police Department at uwpolice@mhub.uwpd.wisc.edu. Download the most recent report (PDF) Voluntary System of Accountability UW–Madison participates in the Voluntary System of Accountability (VSA), a program designed to provide accountability through accessible, transparent, and comparable information for more than 260 public colleges and universities. Are you searching for something specific? This search returns up to five matches as you type. The matches can be found immediately after the search input field.Search People and Pages Search Footer links Popular Academic calendar Campus map Directory search Facts and figures Jobs Majors and certificates Tuition and fees Resources Alumni Business and industry Faculty and staff International Parents Researchers Students Quick links Accessibility Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Governance Policies Safety Support UW Title IX Footer Crest envelope Contact us facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram ©2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System | Privacy notice | Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu