Skip to main content Cornell University Library Search Cornell University Library Support Teaching Learning Research I am... Off-Campus/Study Abroad A Faculty member/Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student New to Cornell An Alum A Visitor Staff Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog COVID-19 updates Search Search Search this site About Us Inside the Library News Events Collections Visitor Information Staff Partnerships and Initiatives Public Policies Libraries Textbooks Tools for Instructors Contact Reserves Staff Student Textbook Request Form Research Citation Management Current Awareness Introduction to Research Research Guides Meet with a Librarian Services Borrow, Renew, Return Policies Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) and Material Requests Copyright and Digitization Disability Services Evidence Synthesis Service Instruction and Workshops Library Liaisons Library Spaces OverDrive Passkey and Library Apps Privacy Services Research Data Management Services Scholarly Publishing, Repositories, and Open Access Streaming Video Visiting Partner Libraries Ask a Librarian Chat Email Meet with a Librarian Reference Desk Directory My Account Teaching & Course Support Resources & Support for Learning Research COVID-19 updates Home Services Services Borrow, Renew, Return Policies View your account and find out how to get materials delivered from the Annex or other Cornell libraries. Find out how to obtain guest borrowing privileges at Columbia University. For alumni and non-Cornell users, find out how to get Cornell Library guest borrowing privileges. Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) and Material Requests Cornell University Library has extensive collections as well as partnerships with other universities to help you get the materials you need for your classes and research. View your options and get what what you need as quickly as possible. Copyright and Digitization Information about copyright and digitization services at the Library. Disability Services Find a full list of assistive technology and ways to access library services. Evidence Synthesis Service Cornell University Library offers an evidence synthesis service to research staff, graduate students and faculty at Cornell. Instruction and Workshops Sign up for a free workshop, request a research session and more. Library Liaisons Liaisons are your go-to librarians, connecting you to library services and collections. They are subject specialists who provide support for faculty and student research, instruction, and scholarly communication, who build rich library collections or can refer you to other library experts. Library Spaces Information about available library study spaces. OverDrive OverDrive is a system by which current Cornell students, faculty and staff can check out and download e-books and audio books. Passkey and other tools Find newly developed technology tools that make it easier to research and share information. Privacy Services Services for digital privacy literacy, licensing, risk consultations, and public computing. Research Data Management Service Group (RDMSG) Services and expertise related to the management of research data are distributed throughout multiple units at Cornell University. The RDMSG provides expert referrals to research data services, and guidance on writing and implementing data management plans. Scholarly Publishing, Repositories, and Open Access Learn about the Library's scholarly publishing, digital repositories, and open access initiatives. Specialized Software Get access to specialized software by enrolling in the library's Canvas course; for the Cornell community only. Once you enroll in the Canvas course, you'll be able to access specialized software through Apps on Demand. Streaming Video Stream video using Swank Motion Pictures and Kanopy on-demand streaming service. Visiting Partner Libraries Information about visiting partner libraries. Services Borrow, Renew, Return Policies Borrow Direct, Interlibrary Loan (ILL) and Material Requests Copyright and Digitization Disability Services Evidence Synthesis Service Instruction and Workshops Library Liaisons Library Spaces OverDrive Passkey and Library Apps Privacy Services Research Data Management Services Scholarly Publishing, Repositories, and Open Access Streaming Video Visiting Partner Libraries News Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! More news » Events Mud Painting at Mann Library More events » | Book Talks » Library Insider Staff Profile: Reanna Karim Esmail More Library Insider » Spotlight Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! Menu Library Home About Us Libraries Textbooks Research Services Ask a Librarian My Account Cornell Cornell.edu CUinfo Search Cornell Help Trouble Connecting Search Tips: Articles Search Tips: Catalog Resources Search Catalog Articles & Full Text Databases E-journal Titles Images I am... Off Campus & Studying Abroad A Faculty member &/or Instructor A Graduate Student An Undergraduate Student An International Student An Alum A Visitor Staff Library Staff Staff login Send us feedback Give to the Library ©2021 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | (607) 255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance Facebook Twitter Instagram