Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES CLASSICS CLASSICAL ARCHAEOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 CL AR 340 Pre-Classical Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA K. Topper Survey of the art and the other material remains of the civilizations in the Aegean from the Neolithic Age to the end of the Bronze Age, with special emphasis on Minoan Crete and the Mycenaean kingdoms of mainland Greece, illustrated by slides. The history, techniques, and results of significant excavations are examined. Offered: jointly with ART H 340. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 340 CL AR 341 Greek Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper Survey of the material remains and the developing styles in sculpture, vase painting, architecture, and the minor arts from the geometric to the Hellenistic periods, illustrated by slides. Principal sites and monuments, as well as techniques and methods of excavation, are examined in an attempt to reconstruct the material culture of antiquity. Offered: jointly with ART H 341. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 341 CL AR 342 Roman Art and Archaeology (3/5) VLPA Sarah Levin-Richardson, Kathryn R. Topper Roman architecture and art, with emphasis on the innovations of the Romans; illustrated by slides. Offered: jointly with ART H 342. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 342 CL AR 343 Hellenistic Art and Archaeology (3) VLPA K. Topper Survey of the art of Greece and the eastern Mediterranean from the time of Alexander the Great to the Roman conquest. Principal sites with their sculpture, painting, mosaics, and minor arts examined in lectures illustrated with slides. Offered: jointly with ART H 343. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 343 CL AR 347 Pompeii: A Time Capsule of Ancient Life (5) VLPA/I&S, DIV S. Levin-Richardson Explores the power differential between men and women, slaves and masters, and citizens and foreigners in the cultural melting pot of ancient Pompeii, which was preserved by a volcanic eruption in 79 CE. Graffiti, skeletal remains, everyday objects, humble and world-class art and monuments will be analyzed. Offered: jointly with ART H 347; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 347 CL AR 442 Greek Painting (3) VLPA K. Topper Study of painted decoration on Greek vases, with emphasis on stylistic developments and cultural and historical influences. Painting on other media also examined as evidence allows. Offered: jointly with ART H 442. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 442 CL AR 443 Roman Painting (3) VLPA S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper Study of surviving painting from the Roman world, with emphasis on wall paintings from Pompeii and Herculaneum. Principal topics for discussion: the four styles of Pompeian painting the dependence of Roman painters on Greek prototypes, and the significance of various kinds of painting as domestic decoration. Offered: jointly with ART H 443. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 443 CL AR 444 Greek and Roman Sculpture (3) VLPA K. Topper History and development of Greek sculpture and sculptors, their Roman copyists, and Roman portraits and sarcophagi. Emphasis on Greek sculpture of the fifth century BC. Offered: jointly with ART H 444. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 444 CL AR 446 Greek Architecture (3) VLPA K. Topper Detailed study of Greek architecture from its beginnings, with special emphasis on the Periclean building program in fifth-century Athens. Offered: jointly with ART H 446. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 446 CL AR 447 The Archaeology of Early Italy (3) VLPA S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper Study of the principal archaeological sites of early Italy, including Etruria, Sicily, southern Italy, and archaic Rome up to the Republican period. Attention given to the material remains and their relationship to the Etruscan, ancient Sicilian, and early Roman civilizations. Offered: jointly with ART H 447. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 447 CL AR 448 The Archaeology of Italy (3) VLPA S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper Study of the principal archaeological sites in Italy with special emphasis on ancient Rome. Sites include the Alban hills, Ostia, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Tarquinia, Paestum, Tivoli, and Praeneste. Attention given to the relationship between material remains and their purpose in ancient life. Illustrated by slides. Offered: jointly with ART H 448. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 448 CL AR 461 Gender and Sexuality in Classical Art and Archeology (3/5) I&S/VLPA, DIV S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper Examines gender and sexuality in the visual and archaeological records of Greece and Rome, with a focus on topics such as the body, clothing, the gaze, homoeroticism, sexual labor, gendered spaces, and transgressive genders and sexualities. Recommended: previous coursework in Greek and/or Roman art at the 200- or 300-level is encouraged. Offered: jointly with ART H 461; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 461 CL AR 513 Athenian Topography (5) K. TOPPER Detailed consideration of the topography and monuments of ancient Athens from the beginning through the Roman period. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 513 CL AR 541 Seminar in Greek and Roman Art (5) S. Levin-Richardson, K. Topper In-depth study of selected topics and problems of the art of ancient Greece and Rome. Offered: jointly with ART H 541. View course details in MyPlan: CL AR 541 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022