Skip to main content Search search Resources Campus Map A-Z UAccess Directory / Phonebook Future Wildcat Weather News Calendar search search menu menu I am Select your audience choose an option a future student a current student a faculty or staff member a parent or visitor an alumni member a donor a business or partner Go to the page for that group Visit Apply home home close close Search search Main navigation Admissions Admissions Overview First-Year Transfer Graduate International Online Returning Non-Degree Seeking Counselors Professional Education & Certification Academics Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Colleges & Schools Academic Resources Health Sciences Class Registration Libraries Global Engagement Research Research, Innovation & Impact Corporate Engagement Research Centers Resources for Researchers Research Opportunities for Students Environment & Sustainability Student Life Student Life Overview Living on Campus Things To Do Getting Involved Spirit & Traditions All About Tucson Student Stories Visit About About Arizona Tuition & Aid Leadership Purpose, Mission & Values Faculty Awards & Honors Diversity & Inclusion New Economy Initiative Strategic Plan News Alumni Alumni Association Chapters & Clubs Arizona Loyal Give Support Arizona Give Today Athletics Arts & Museums ARTS & MUSEUMS Discover new things at one of our museums – ranging from anthropology to photography – and enjoy a wide array of artistic events, including concerts, theatre, film and dance. MUSEUMS ARIZONA STATE MUSEUM Experience the ancient and enduring Native cultures of the region through content-rich exhibits, dynamic docent tours, engaging programs, exciting travel tours, hands-on workshops, a research library and archives, and an educational museum store. Arizona State Museum CENTER FOR CREATIVE PHOTOGRAPHY Experience this one-of-a-kind archive, museum and research center dedicated to photography as an art form and cultural record. The center’s changing exhibits include key collections of Ansel Adams, Edward Weston, Garry Winogrand, Harry Callahan and other great 20th century photographers. Creative Photography UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA MUSEUM OF ART The University of Arizona Museum of Art houses wide-ranging collections of over 5,000 paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings, with an emphasis on European and American fine art from the Renaissance to the present. Museum of Art THE ALFIE NORVILLE GEM & MINERAL MUSEUM With over 26,000 specimens, the Alfie Norville Gem & Mineral Museum is one of the top university mineral and meteorite collections in the country. Gem & Mineral Museum HISTORY OF PHARMACY MUSEUM A collection of over 60,000 artifacts that document the pharmacy profession from the 19th and 20th centuries. Pharmacy Museum JIM CLICK HALL OF CHAMPIONS Live the heritage and rich traditions of Arizona Athletics. Rotating exhibits feature historic moments in UArizona sports history and the legendary Wildcat student-athletes and coaches who have contributed to Arizona’s tradition of excellence. Hall of Champions SCHOOL OF ART GALLERIES Exhibits student, faculty and professional artists of excellence in a broad range of media and concepts. School of Art Galleries SPECIAL COLLECTIONS Discover a treasure trove of historical Southwestern documents and photos, and unique, unusual books, letters, and manuscripts, only at the University of Arizona. Changing exhibits present a variety of topics from indigenous languages to video gaming. Special Collections POETRY CENTER Founded in 1960 to maintain and cherish the spirit of poetry, the Poetry Center sponsors readings and lectures, classes and workshops, writing residencies and more. Its significant archives are open to the public. Poetry Center Science & Discovery FLANDRAU SCIENCE CENTER & PLANETARIUM Open your mind at Southern Arizona’s only planetarium, with fun and educational programs for everyone. Hands-on exhibits and sky shows highlight the wonders of science, and music laser shows immerse audiences in light and sound. Flandrau BIOSPHERE 2 Just north of Tucson on Oracle Road/Highway 77, explore a “world under glass.” Biosphere 2 contains a living rainforest, ocean and four other biomes in a 3.14-acre laboratory. Tours take you inside this engineering marvel where construction and experiments on the Landscape Earth Observatory have begun. Biosphere 2 RICHARD F. CARIS MIRROR LABORATORY Reflect on the enormity of telescope technology as you tour the behind-the-scenes processes required to make the world’s largest, most complex telescope mirrors. The lenses to the universe are created right below the Arizona Stadium. Mirror Lab MT. LEMMON SKY CENTER Mt. Lemmon Sky Center is home to Steward Observatory's public astronomy outreach program and is located high above the city of Tucson, Arizona. Our exceptional science programs take place on the summit of a Sky Island, at an elevation of 9,157 feet. Sky Center LABORATORY OF TREE-RING RESEARCH Learn the insightful stories trees can tell, including fire history, climate conditions, and even public health. This globally recognized lab advances tree-ring techniques and applications within the social and environmental sciences. Tree-Ring Research CAMPUS ARBORETUM The UArizona campus is the oldest continually maintained green space in Arizona. This unique collection of trees, shrubs and plants offers specimens from arid and semi-arid climates around the world. More than 50 campus trees are the only existing samples of their kind in Arizona and several are unique in the Southwest. Campus Arboretum PERFORMING ARTS & FILM ARIZONA ARTS LIVE Escape for an afternoon or evening in the world’s finest dance, classical, jazz, blues, and world music as Arizona Arts Live brings awe-inspiring events to Southern Arizona each year. Most performances are held in historic Centennial Hall on the University of Arizona campus. Arizona Arts Live ARIZONA REPERTORY THEATRE The theater company for the School of Theatre, Film and Television is one of the oldest programs in the nation. Presents award-winning student performances at the Tornabene and Marroney theaters. Repertory Theatre FRED FOX SCHOOL OF MUSIC The School of Music offers a wide variety of degree programs and musical experiences, and presents over 300 concerts and recitals each year. School of Music STEVIE ELLER DANCE THEATRE Home to the University of Arizona Dance Ensemble, this award-winning, state-of-the-art complex hosts rehearsals and more than 40 breathtaking performances a year for the public – including presenting ballet, jazz and modern dance works. Dance Theatre GALLAGHER THEATER A campus movie theater equipped with Dolby Digital Sound, 340 seats and a 26-by-11-foot screen. Assisted-hearing devices are available. Gallagher Theater Find Attractions Wondering where to find things on campus? See our map of attractions and landmarks. ATTRACTIONS MAP Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Title IX / Non-Discrimination Campus Safety UAlert Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback The University of Arizona | Tucson, Arizona 85721 | 520‑621‑2211 Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Colleges, Schools, Departments Diversity Environment & Sustainability Global Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Outreach & Extension Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources A-Z Index Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples. Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. Committed to diversity and inclusion, the University strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy © 2022 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona.