Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Prospective Masters Students Current Masters Students Employers Prospective Doctoral Students Current Doctoral Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Home» About» Letter from the Chair History Laboratory Facilities Achievements Contact Us Applied Physics» Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Research Faculty News Applied Mathematics» Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Research Faculty News Materials Science and Engineering» Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Research Faculty News Medical Physics» Programs Courses Faculty FAQ News Research» Seminars» Applied Mathematics Colloquium Materials Science and Engineering Colloquium Plasma Physics Colloquium SEAS Colloquium in Climate Science (SCiCS) Research Conference Distinguished Colloquium Series in Interdisciplinary and Applied Mathematics (DCSIAM) American Meteorological Society's NYC / Long Island Chapter Seminar Admissions» Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Online Learning & Non-Degree Programs People» Faculty & Staff Research Scientists & Postdocs Students Academic Advisors Department Concilliators Alumni In Memoriam Courses» Careers News Newsletters Resources Conferences & Workshops Bulletin Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics with Materials Science and Engineering Programs Research Faculty Programs Research Faculty Programs in Applied Physics, Applied Mathematics, Materials Science and Engineering, and Medical Physics Applied Physics | Applied Mathematics | Materials Science & Engineering | Medical Physics APAM Department Research The Department is a leader in advanced research including nanoscale science, advanced scientific computing, applied mathematics, earth science, plasma physics and controlled fusion, solid-state physics, optical and laser physics, medical physics, and materials for information technologies. Research Faculty Members The faculty members in the APAM Department are a vital and coherent group of active scholars, heavily involved in several interdisciplinary research areas including nanoscale science, advanced scientific computing, earth science, plasma physics, and materials for information technologies. Faculty DIrectory The Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics is unique, with vibrant academic programs and cutting-edge research spanning from applied physics, to applied mathematics, to materials science and engineering, and to medical physics. These efforts highlight our Department, as do the many interconnections between them. Modeling ways to predict weather. Decoding the mathematics of cancer. Testing sophisticated solutions for developing nanoscale devices. Pioneering fusion energy. Those are just some of the extraordinary advances made in our Department. News » Press Release Seeing More Deeply into Nanomaterials New 3D imaging tool reveals engineered and self-assembled nanoparticle lattices with highest resolution yet—7nm—about 1/100,000 of the width of a human hair More Apr 13 2022 | By Holly Evarts | Photo Credit: Oleg Gang/Columbia Engineering Ren Wins Distinguished Faculty Teaching Award Prof. Kui Ren has won the Columbia Engineering Alumni Association's Distinguished Faculty Teaching Award More May 26 2022 2022 Workshop of the US-Africa Initiative in Electronic Structure The virtual conference will take place from May 25-27, 2022 and will be livestreamed More May 24 2022 Michelson Wins 2022 Simon Prize Aaron Michelson has won the 2022 Simon Prize for the best dissertation in the APAM Department More May 10 2022 2022 APAM Senior Award Winners Learn about the 2022 APAM Department senior award winners More May 11 2022 2022 Senior Design Projects Materials Science seniors presented their senior design research projects More May 10 2022 Ozel (BS ‘96) Reveals First images of the Milky Way Galaxy’s Black Hole Feryal Özel (BS ‘96 Applied Physics) is part of the Event Horizon Telescope project and revealed the first image of the Black Hole at the center of the Milky More May 13 2022 Statistical Methods for Climate Scientists Congratulations to Timothy Delsole and Michael Tippett on the publication of their new book - Statistical Methods for Climate Scientists More May 12 2022 | cambridge.org How Can Quantum Mechanics Help Researchers Understand the Deep Earth? Renata Wentzcovitch and her group are currently working with seismologists and geodynamicists on a reference model of the distribution of mineral phases and More Apr 25 2022 | Columbia Quantum Initiative Barmak and Colleagues Win AFOSR MURI Award for Precision Testing and Evaluation of Computer Chips Katayun Barmak and colleagues have won a highly-competitive Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative (MURI) Award from the Air Force Office Scientific More Mar 28 2022 TEDxBroadway Features Adam Sobel Adam Sobel is a featured speaker at 2022 TEDxBroadway on Tuesday, May 17th at 2pm More Mar 25 2022 | TEDxBroadway A New Vision for Virtual and Augmented Reality Michal Lipson and her team are developing new VR/AR technologies with multiple applications More Mar 25 2022 | Columbia Engineering Magazine A Climate Science Midlife Crisis Listen to Prof. Adam Sobel's recent interview on Sea Change Radio - A Climate Science Midlife Crisis More Mar 18 2022 | Sea Change Radio Thomas C. Marshall Scholarship Columbia Engineering has established an endowed scholarship fund in memory of Thomas C. Marshall (1935-2021) More Mar 14 2022 Press Release Dressed for Success Two Columbia engineers behind fashion app Upcomers on creating a marketplace to showcase Black-owned brands and five new designers everyone should know More Feb 18 2022 | By Kyle Barr Press Release Yang Named 2021 Materials Today Rising Star Awardee Yuan Yang has been named one of the 2021 Materials Today Rising Star Award Winners More Jan 20 2022 | Materials Today Press Release University Faculty Team Up Again to Design Tech Innovations for NYC For second year in a row, faculty win Urban Tech Awards to develop technology innovations to improve urban living in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, More Feb 14 2022 | By Allison Chen Press Release In Memoriam: Aron Pinczuk (1939-2022) Columbia Engineering mourns the loss of Aron Pinczuk, Professor of Applied Physics and Physics at Columbia University. More Feb 14 2022 Press Release In Memoriam: John Arbo Columbia Engineering mourns the loss of John Arbo, Associate in the Discipline of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics More Feb 23 2022 Press Release Yu Named 2022 Optica Fellow Nanfang Yu has been named a 2022 Optica Fellow "for the invention and development of metasurfaces and their application to imaging and cooling". More Nov 19 2021 Press Release New Device Modulates Visible Light—Without Dimming It—with the Smallest Footprint and Lowest Power Consumption Visible-spectrum, compact, power-efficient, low-loss phase modulator is a breakthrough in integrated photonics; the device will improve LIDAR for remote sensing More Nov 22 2021 | By Holly Evarts | Photo credit: Heqing Huang and Cheng-Chia Tsai/Columbia Engineering Press Release A dimensionality reduction algorithm for mapping tokamak operational regimes using a variational autoencoder (VAE) neural network A new paper by members of the Plasma Physics Lab was published this week in the journal "Nuclear Fusion" describing the use of machine learning methods to More Nov 23 2021 Press Release COP 26 highlights an infuriating, depressing, miserable situation. And yet... Prof. Adam Sobel latest article in the Bulletin of the Atomic Sciences More Nov 18 2021 | Bulletin of the Atomic Sciences In the Media Billinge: Researchers Use New X-ray Technique to Conserve Henry VIII’s Favorite Warship International team applied new method--ctPDF--developed at Columbia Engineering and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility to discover potentially harmful More Oct 28 2021 | Columbia Engineering News Press Release Dynamic control of photon lifetime for quantum random number generation A new paper from Gaeta's Quantum and Nonlinear Photonics Group & Lipson's Nanophotonics Group was published by Optica. More Nov 08 2021 Press Release Paz-Soldan receives DOE awards for work to advance Fusion Science and Control at National Facilities The awards recognize Prof. Paz-Soldan’s past and future contributions to harnessing controlled fusion reactions on earth More Sep 25 2021 Beat the Heat in the Living Wings of Butterflies Runtime 3:28 The wings of Lepidoptera contain a matrix of living cells whose functioning requires appropriate temperatures. However, given their small thermal capacity, wings can overheat rapidly in the sun. Here we analyze butterfly wings across a wide range of simulated environmental conditions, and find that regions containing living cells are maintained at cooler temperatures in a manner that is largely unaffected by visible color patterns. Diverse scale nanostructures and non-uniform cuticle thicknesses create a heterogeneous distribution of radiative cooling that selectively reduces the temperature of living structures such as wing veins and androconial organs. Beat the Heat in the Living Wings of Butterflies Runtime 3:28 The wings of Lepidoptera contain a matrix of living cells whose functioning requires appropriate temperatures. However, given their small thermal capacity, wings can overheat rapidly in the sun. Here we analyze butterfly wings across a wide range of simulated environmental conditions, and find that regions containing living cells are maintained at cooler temperatures in a manner that is largely unaffected by visible color patterns. Diverse scale nanostructures and non-uniform cuticle thicknesses create a heterogeneous distribution of radiative cooling that selectively reduces the temperature of living structures such as wing veins and androconial organs. Climate change and the challenge of long-term thinking | Adam Sobel | TEDxBroadway Runtime 10:45 Adam Sobel doesn't want to prove that climate change is real. If you don't believe yet, he's confident you will eventually. Instead, what he wants to do is help our decision making about long-term events with future consequences to be better. He talks about climate change and how it has already and will continue to affect New York City, and how everyone should be thinking differently. Adam Sobel is a professor at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. He is an atmospheric scientist who specializes in the dynamics of climate and weather, particularly in the tropics, on time scales of days to decades. This talk was given at a TEDx event using the TED conference format but independently organized by a local community. Learn more at http://ted.com/tedx Engineering Light: Nanophotonics at Columbia Engineering Runtime 3:55 Read the full interview in Columbia Engineering magazine. After almost a decade of long-distance collaborations, Keren Bergman, Michal Lipson, and Alex Gaeta are working together in one place, here at Columbia Engineering. Lipson and Gaeta joined the School this summer as the Eugene Higgins Professor in Electrical Engineering (EE) and the David M. Rickey Professor of Applied Physics and of Materials Science, respectively. And now, together with Bergman, who is the Charles Batchelor Professor and EE chair, the trio is set to break new ground in nanophotonics, or, as Lipson, a preeminent leader in nanophotonic fabrication, puts it, “optics on a very, very small scale.” LightSaber Physics with Columbia Engineering Runtime 5:57 Ever wonder how lightsabers work? Watch how plasma physics make these signature Star Wars weapons possible -- in every color of the rainbow. Revolutionary Ultra-thin “Meta-lens” Technology Runtime 2:27 Broadband imaging in the near-infrared using a single meta-lens, showing the ability of the lens in correcting chromatic aberrations, and manufacturing of meta-lenses using planar fabrication techniques similar to those used in the integrated circuits industry. The Nanostructure Problem: Simon Billinge at Brookhaven National Labs Runtime 3:17 In order to see inside nanomaterials and learn how nanoparticles evolve, Simon Billinge, applies the world’s newest and brightest synchrotron light source—the National Synchrotron Light Source II (NSLS-II) at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Brookhaven National Laboratory A physicist with a joint position at Columbia University's School of Engineering and Applied Science and Brookhaven, Billinge gives us a tour of his workflow at NSLS-II. Yuan Yang Flexible Battery, Smart Watch, and Meter Runtime 2:07 Video demonstrating flexibility of Yang's lithium-ion battery powering a smart watch, in flat, flexed, and twisted configurations. Nuclear Fusion Energy: The Race to Create a Star on Earth Runtime 11:06 If the processes powering the fusion reactor at the Sun's core could be recreated on Earth, it would be one of the most important events in the history of our species. Nuclear fusion power plants could end our dependency on fossil fuels and provide a virtually limitless, highly efficient source of clean energy. We went to two of the world's leading nuclear fusion research centers—Sandia National Labs in New Mexico and General Fusion outside Vancouver—to see how close we are to bringing the power of the stars down to Earth. Check out CNET's channel for more: http://bit.ly/2gpeXdr Subscribe to MOTHERBOARD: http://bit.ly/Subscribe-To-MOTHERBOARD Follow MOTHERBOARD Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/motherboardtv Twitter: http://twitter.com/motherboard Tumblr: http://motherboardtv.tumblr.com/ Instagram: http://instagram.com/motherboardtv More videos from the VICE network: https://www.fb.com/vicevideo Adam Sobel: Preparing for the Next Big Storm Runtime 5:36 Superstorm Sandy was a wake-up call for a lot of people in New York City, including Adam Sobel, who’s spent more than two decades studying the physics of weather and climate. He spent a lot of time talking to the media about what was happening, and why. He says the intense public interest made clear to him the need to find ways to apply the esoteric physics of atmosphere and oceans so we can be better prepared for the next extreme event. Sobel is a research scientist and professor in the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics, the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences and the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory. He directs the Columbia Initiative on Extreme Weather and Climate. In this latest in our video series, Sobel talks about the hard work of predicting extreme and rare weather events, and how he came to study in this field. (Photos: NOAA, NASA, U.S. Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, NYC MTA, John Allen, Creative Commons) Engineering for Humanity: CONNECTED Runtime 0:27 Spinning Out, In Control (Panel, Full Video) | #StartupColumbia 2018 Runtime 50:04 Sponsored by Columbia's Women Inventors Network and by Women in Science @ Columbia, this discussion takes a deep dive into the tale of three scientists' journey from innovation to spinout and what life is like at the intersection of university research and the commercial sector. Nanfang Yu: The engineer and the butterfly Runtime 0:58 Transmission Microscopy Lab: probing the structure of materials at nanoscales Runtime 2:23 Materials science pioneer Katayun Barmak takes you behind the scenes at Columbia Nano Initiative’s new Electron Microscopy lab where researchers probe the nature of materials at the nanoscale. Bridging the gap - hacking the future of NYC: Chris Wiggins at TEDxColumbiaEngineeringSchool Runtime 9:34 Chris Wiggins is an associate professor of applied mathematics at Columbia University and co-founder of hackNY. He is a member of the faculty in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, and is a founding member of both the Institute for Data Sciences and Engineering, and the Department of Systems Biology. His research is at the intersection of data science and the natural sciences, particularly biology. In the spirit of ideas worth spreading, TEDx is a program of local, self-organized events that bring people together to share a TED-like experience. At a TEDx event, TEDTalks video and live speakers combine to spark deep discussion and connection in a small group. These local, self-organized events are branded TEDx, where x = independently organized TED event. The TED Conference provides general guidance for the TEDx program, but individual TEDx events are self-organized.* (*Subject to certain rules and regulations) DBMI Data Science Retreat 2018 Matthew Jones and Chris Wiggins Runtime 1:20:55 Speaker: Matthew Jones & Chris Wiggins Title: Data: Past, Present, and Future DBMI Data Science Retreat 2018 April 18th Part 1: Extreme Weather and Climate Change Runtime 6:57 Extreme Weather and Climate Change, part 1: What We Know Nevis Labs: http://www.nevis.columbia.edu/ Science-on-Hudson lectures: http://www.nevis.columbia.edu/events/science-on-hudson.html Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/NevisLaboratories Twitter: https://twitter.com/NevisLabs Columbia initiative on Extreme Weather and Climate: http://extremeweather.columbia.edu/ Description of the talk: Speaker: Professor Adam Sobel, Columbia University Part of Nevis Labs' #ScienceOnHudson lecture series. Recorded Thu Feb 16, 2017 How does climate change influence extreme weather events? Are they increasing in frequency or intensity? When a particular event happens, can we say with any justification that climate change played a role, or that it didn’t? How does the answer differ depending on which kind of event we are talking about – heat waves, floods, droughts, hurricanes, or tornadoes? I will explain what we know and don’t know, based on the latest scientific research on these topics. 150th Anniversary Symposium: Columbia's Engineering Renaissance. Fluids. 12 Runtime 5:15 C. K. [John] Chu. Pioneering Computational Fluid Dynamics / Computational Earth and Atmospheric Science Michael Mauel, Professor of Applied Physics Adam Sobel, Professor of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics and of Earth and Environmental Sciences 150th Anniversary Symposium: Columbia's Engineering Renaissance. Materials. 04 Runtime 4:41 Colin Fink. Pioneering Electrochemistry / Computation and Materials Discovery Alan C. West, Samuel Ruben–Peter G. Viele Professor of Electrochemistry and Professor of Chemical Engineering Chris Marianetti, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics at Columbia University Runtime 3:02 Undergraduate Program in Applied Physics and Applied Math w/ Materials Science and Engineering Runtime 2:53 Master of Science in Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Runtime 3:09 Learn about the fields of study available in Columbia Engineering's Applied Physics, Applied Mathematics, and Materials Science and Engineering master's programs. Master of Science in Medical Physics Runtime 3:13 Find out more about Columbia Engineering's Medical Physics specialities and how the master's program combines resources from Columbia University Medical Center and the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics. Connect twitter MORE {{item.username}} | {{item.date}} 500 W. 120th Street #200 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-4457 Google Maps Plan a Visit Directory Contact Columbia Engineering Columbia University sitemap