About Contact Us Join our Mailing List People Faculty & Research Faculty Research Talks Research Databases Affiliated Faculty Grants Education MSFE Degree News and Finance Conference 6th Annual News and Finance Conference 5th Annual News and Finance Conference 4th Annual News and Finance Conference 3rd Annual News and Finance Conference 2nd Annual News and Finance Conference 1st Annual News and Finance Conference Events Faculty Research Talks Wall Street Voices Seminars Archive Newsletter Join our mailing list Program for Financial Studies About Contact Us Join our Mailing List People Faculty & Research Faculty Research Talks Research Databases Affiliated Faculty Grants Education MSFE Degree News and Finance Conference 6th Annual News and Finance Conference 5th Annual News and Finance Conference 4th Annual News and Finance Conference 3rd Annual News and Finance Conference 2nd Annual News and Finance Conference 1st Annual News and Finance Conference Events Faculty Research Talks Wall Street Voices Seminars Archive Newsletter 18_CBS Nov 2021_Timothy Schenck.jpg An Integrative Approach to Finance The Program for Financial Studies (PFS) at Columbia Business School is a partnership between academia and industry. Our goal is to support and promote applied research in finance. We support and engage in basic research, communicate this research to practitioners and regulators, and transfer knowledge gained to our Business School community. The PFS has partnered with the Master of Science in Financial Economics (MSFE) degree program at the Business School. For more information please click here. 17_CBS Nov 2021_Timothy Schenck.jpg Data Analytics and Finance Dropping computational costs, extraordinary growth in traditional and non-traditional data sets, and technological progress are revolutionizing the practice and study of modern finance. A theme that runs through our research efforts is the application of new tools, technologies and data sets to traditional problems in finance and economics. The PFS produces research, creates educational materials and trains future business leaders to understand this revolutionary change in the financial landscape. Columbia Business School two-block Events May 19 MSFE Student & Alumni Reception - Geffen 320 May 17 MSFE Commencement! May 10 SPRING NEWSLETTER Apr 14 Michelle Meyer, Chief Economist, MasterCard presenting: The Economy in 2022 - Managing a Transition Apr 11 Sanjiv Das, Amazon Scholar presenting: Multi-Modal ML With Financial Text and Tabular Data Video Apr 1 6th Annual News & Finance Conference. Videos and website. Mar 29 Effective Communication Part II seminar taught by Co-Director, Melina Denebeim '12 Mar 22 MSFE Alumni Panel featuring Gordon Li '19 and Lorelei He '19 Mar 3 MSFE Admitted Students Welcome Evening hosted over Zoom by Faculty Director, Harry Mamaysky Mar 2 Effective Communication Part 1 seminar taught by Co-Director, Melina Denebeim '12, Kravis 880 Mar 2 Faculty Research Talks: Wei Jiang, Arthur F. Burns Professor of Free and Competitive Enterprise (Finance) presenting: How to Talk When a Machine is Listening? and Laura Veldkamp, Leon G. Cooperman Professor of Finance and Economics presenting: The Changing Economics of Knowledge Production Mar 1 Disruption in Financial Services: Tom Vandever ' 98, Head of FIG M&A, Barclays Feb 8 Effective Decision-Making in the Equity Markets: Perry Boyle, Point72 (retired) Jan 25 Breaking Down the Macro Backdrop, the Fed and Market Conditions: Brian Friedman, Global Head of Market Strats, Goldman Sachs 2021 Dec 6 Faculty Research Talks: Harry Mamaysky, Faculty Director and Professor of Professional Practice (Finance) and Kriste Krstovski, Adjunct Assistant Professor (Decision, Risk & Operations) Dec 1 Global Cryptocurrencies & Digital Assets: Alkesh Shah '94, Head of Global Crypto and Digital Assets Strategy, BAML Nov 16 Quantitative Finance Landscape & Careers: Steve Haggerty, MSFE Advisor and Former Global Head of Research, Moon Capital and BAML - Click here for video Nov 9 Thematic Investing and Capital Markets (ETFs): Jay Jacobs '19, Head of Research & Strategy, GlobalX - Click here for video Nov 8 Faculty Research Talks: Simona Abis, Assistant Professor of Finance and Anton Lines, Assistant Professor of Finance Oct 25 How Quantitative Research Informs Fundamental Analysis: Refinitiv Oct 5 Technology and Global Payments in Financial Services: Takis Georgakopoulos GSAS '99, Global Head of Payments and Umar Farooq, CEO of Onyx by JPMorgan Oct 1 Careers in Equity Research: JPMorgan Sep 27 MSFE alumni panel: featuring Rafael Cardoso '19 and Linda Yang '19 Sep 22 Opportunities in Quantitative Research: Vanguard Sep 20 Quantitative Finance Career Landscape: Bob Shainheit, CambioSystematic May 6 ESG and Finance seminar: "The Value of Asset-level Data in ESG" featuring RS Metrics April 28 NEW! Fintech Innovation Salon: Joshua Levin, Co-Founder of OpenInvest interviewed by PFS board member Ciara Burnham '93, and alumnae Jane Ma '08 LINK TO VIDEO April 12 No Free Lunch seminar: Vanessa Burbano, Assistant Professor of Management presenting The Demotivating Effects of Communicating a Social-Political Stance and Kathryn Harrigan, Henry R. Kravis Professor of Business Leadership in Management presenting Corporate Renewal and Turnaround of Troubles Businesses: The Private Equity Advantage LINK TO VIDEO April 9 Fifth Annual News and Finance Conference, 9am-1pm LINK TO VIDEOS March 15 NEW! Finance Alumni Conversation Series featuring PFS board member Fabrizio Gallo, Former Global Head of Equities, BAML: "Sell-side and Buy-side Trends in 2021" March 12 Big Data for Better Business seminar: "Do Socially Conscious Investors Get What They Pay For? A Case Study of Tesla, Inc." taught by Shiva Rajgopal, Roy Bernard Kester and T.W. Byrnes Professor of Accounting and Auditing (9am-noon) March 10 No Free Lunch seminar: Olivier Darmouni, Associate Professor of Finance presenting Bank Liquidity Provision Across the Firm Size Distribution and Sandra Matz, David W. Zalaznick Associate Professor of Management presenting on Using Big Data to Personalize Financial Decision-Making (6-7pm) LINK TO VIDEO March 9 NEW! Fintech Innovation Salon: Kathryn Petralia, Co-Founder of Kabbage and Lisa Marchese '97, Head of Corporate Development, American Express (6-7:15pm) LINK TO VIDEO February 3 NEW: Finance Alumni Conversation Series featuring PFS board member Tom Vandever '98, Head of FIG M&A, Barclays: "How to sustain a long-term career in financial services?" (6-7:30pm) November 17 Feautured speaker Ed Altman: 50 Years of Z-Scores - What Have We Learned and COVID-19 and the Credit Cycle hosted by the Distressed Investing and Restructuring Club November 16 No Free Lunch seminar series featuring Professors Carri Chan and Will Ma from the Decision, Risk, and Operations department at CBS October 27 "The Pursuasive Effect of Fox News" (research), News & Finance initiative featuring research on the effect of Fox News viewership and social distancing, presented by Professor Andrey Simonov from the marketing department at Columbia Business School October 6 Crypto Investing seminar, “Big Data for Better Business” series featuring Joel Gantcher, CIO at Gantcher Family Partners and Gregory Landegger, Private Equity & Venture Capital investor VIDEO RECORDING September 30 No Free Lunch seminar featuring Professors Laura Boudreau and Yiming Ma from the economics and finance departments at Columbia Business School VIDEO RECORDING September 14 "ESG Developments in the Debt Capital Markets" featuring Laura Segafredo, Director of Responsible Investing, Blackrock; Pat Welch, Chief Credit Officer, Kroll Bond Rating Agency (KBRA); Professor Geoffrey Heal, Donald C. Waitte III of Social Enterprise, Columbia Business School; Melina Denebeim ’12, Director, Program for Financial Studies, Columbia Business School VIDEO RECORDING July 22 "Markets and Media Coverage in Times of Crisis" webinar panel, News and Finance Initiative May 6 Capital Markets & COVID 19 webinar panel: Fabrizio Gallo, Global Head of Equities, Bank of America; Ciara Burnham, Partner, QED Investors; John Moon, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Private Equity May 1 No Free Lunch seminar: COVID-19 crisis related research featuring Professors Harry Mamaysky and Michaela Pagel. April 27 No Free Lunch seminar featuring Professors Charles Calomiris and Gita Johar. April 22 Demystifying Blockchain: a Big Data for Better Business seminar series featuring R.A. Farrokhnia Mar 12 5th Annual News and Finance Conference. Rescheduled to Spring 2021. Feb 19 "The Impact of AI on Jobs & Organizations" seminar, part of the "Big Data for Better Business" seminar series. Featuring Professor Tania Babina and BAML Data Scientist, Mike Purewal. Register HERE Nov 15 New Technologies in Finance Conference hosted by the PFS and jointly organized by Professors Simona Abis, Anton Lines and Laura Veldkamp, Warren 208, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. Nov 4 / Nov 11 FinTech Entrepreneurship (Friendly) Competition for business school and engineering students. More details TBA. Hosted with Lang Center for Entrepreneurship. Oct 29 No Free Lunch seminar. Uris 326, 12:30-1:45 p.m. with lunch. Oct 14 "Taking the Floor: Models, Morals and Management in a Wall Street Trading Room," Daniel Beunza, co-hosted with Bernstein Center, Heilbrunn Center, Uris 142, 12:30-2 p.m. Oct 2 "Ethics in AI" seminar, part of the "Big Data for Better Business" seminar series. Uris 141, 6:00-8:30 p.m. Sep 17 No Free Lunch seminar. Uris 326, 12:30-1:45 p.m. with lunch. Sep 11 "A Small Step to Big Data: Intro to Python for Business" seminar, part of the "Big Data for Better Business" seminar series. Warren 310, 6:00-9:00 p.m. REGISTER HERE April 25 Women's Business Leadership in Tech Conference - panel hosted by the PFS "Fintech Leadership in a Changing World" moderated by Melina Denebeim '12, featuring PFS board members Maliz Beams '85, Ciara Burnham '93 and Lisa Marchese '97 April 3 What's Next After a Career in Finance? moderated by Melina Denebeim '12, featuring PFS board members Prem Parameswaran '95, Juliana Baiardi '01, and alumna Annie Bergevin '01 Mar 13 4th Annual News and Finance Conference. Mar 6 Fabrizio Gallo, Head of Global Equities, BAML featured speaker. Warren 310, 6:00-8:00 p.m. Feb 27 "Crypto-Economics" seminar by Nolan Bauerle, Head of Research, CoinDesk. Warren 310, 6:00-8:00 p.m. LINK TO PUBLICATION Feb 26 "A Small Step to Big Data: Intro to Python for Business" seminar, the first in the new series titled "Big Data for Better Business" Uris 142, 6:00-9:00 p.m. Feb 5 "Status, Monetary Policy and Alpha" No Free Lunch seminar. Uris 303, 12:30-2:00 p.m. with lunch. Nov 8 "Financing the War on Cancer" No Free Lunch seminar featuring new faculty member Stijn Van Nieuwerburgh. Uris 142, 12:30-1:45 p.m. with lunch. Nov 2 "Cryptocurrency Trading and the Evolution of Securities Platforms" featuring Chris White, CEO, ViableMkts. Uris 141, 2:30-5:30 p.m. with food and drinks. Oct 30 "Women's Leadership and the Importance of Image" lecture by Nina McLemore, CEO of fashion brand Nina McLemore, NYC. Oct 10 "State of the Asset Management Industry" panel. Uris 330. 6:00-8:00 p.m. with food and drinks, Columbia Business School. July 25 Professors Harry Mamaysky and Paul Glasserman present to Bank of America Merrill Lynch on natural language processing and capital markets research. BofA Merrill Lynch offices, midtown NYC. July 1 Professor Harry Mamaysky appointed new faculty director of the Program for Financial Studies. June 14 Initiating conference: Transparency: At What Speed and Cost? Midtown NYC. Invitation only. April 9, 2018 The PFS Advisory Board welcomes Vladimir Stolyarenko, EMBA '08 as a Senior Professional Fellow and newest board member. March 8, 2018 3rd Annual News and Finance Conference hosted by the Program for Financial Studies. 8:30am-5pm, Columbia University. March 5-6, 2018 “Blockchain, Cryptocurrencies & Digital Tokens Demystified”: a comprehensive primer on the topics in the form of an Educational Summit hosted by the Fintech Initiative in the Program for Financial Studies. Contact for information and registration: [email protected] November 13, 2017 Program for Financial Studies' annual reception: "The Politics of Finance in the Trump Era" featuring Professor Charles Calomiris. Harmonie Club, NYC. October 2-3, 2017 Inaugural Frontiers of Digital Finance conference produced by the Program for Financial Studies, the Center for Global Brand Excellence, the Jerome A. Chazen Institute of International Business, and Biz2Credit. Columbia University. May 19, 2017 Conference: "The Costs and Benefits of Bank Regulation Since 2008" hosted by the Manhattan Institute and Program for Financial Studies at the Princeton Club, NYC. May 16, 2017 Michele Mosca: "The Quantum Threat to Banking" hosted by Global Risk Institute, Columbia Business School's Program for Financial Studies, NYU Tandon School of Finance and Risk Engineering. NYC. May 4, 2017 News & Finance Research Colloquium, invitation only. Hosted by the PFS. Faculty House, Columbia University. April 12, 2017 "Leadership in Practice: Accelerating Your Career in Investment Banking" seminar taught by Melina Robbana, PFS Program Director and Jeff Derman, Managing Director, Peter J. Solomon. April 10, 2017 News and Finance Conference write-up "How Does News Coverage Affect the World of Finance" published. April 5, 2017 Cocktails & Conversations: "Big Data, News, and Risk Forecasting in Global Equity Markets" featuring Dean Hubbard and Professor Calomiris, at residence of Teri Volpert '88 and husband Barry. March 23-24, 2017 Special Study of the Securities Markets Initiating Conference, hosted Columbia Law School, Business School, and FINRA. Columbia University. March 9, 2017 "Big Data? Big Deal! A Quantitative Practitioner Perspective" conference in New York City, hosted by SQA. March 8, 2017 2nd Annual News and Finance Conference hosted by the Program for Financial Studies. 8am-5pm, Columbia University. January 23, 2017 We are pleased to announce Morgan Stanley as a sponsor of the Program for Financial Studies' News and Finance Initiative. January 1, 2017 We are pleased to announce J.P. Morgan as a lead sponsor of the Program for Financial Studies' News and Finance Initiative. January 1, 2017 We are pleased to announce the PFS has formally sponsored the Journal of Applied Corporate Finance subscription gift to 4,800 selected CBS alumni. October 28, 2016 Workshop on Systemic Risk in Insurance hosted by the Program for Financial Studies, Center for the Management of Systemic Risk, and Global Risk Institute. 8am-5pm, Warren Hall, Columbia University. October 10, 2016 Program for Financial Studies' first annual dinner reception: "The Future of New York City as a Financial Center" featuring Robert K. Steel, CEO and Partner, Perella Weinberg Partners (former Deputy Mayor of NYC for Economic Development 2010-2014). May 26, 2016 Symposium on Managing Systemic Risk in Energy, Environment, and Infrastructure. Kellogg Center, Columbia University. March 24, 2016 Career management seminar "Leadership in Practice: Accelerating Your Career in Investment Banking" taught by Melina Robbana, PFS Program Director and Jeff Derman, Managing Director, Peter J. Solomon. March 23, 2016 CBS Women's Week #Ladyboss Career Panel: "How Inspiring Women Lead" moderated by PFS Program Director Melina Robbana, hosted by Columbia Women in Business. 7:30pm in Uris 326. March 11, 2016 "News and Finance: How the Media Affects Markets" conference organized by Columbia Business School faculty Paul Glasserman, Harry Mamaysky, and Paul Tetlock, hosted by the Program for Financial Studies. March 10, 2016 Register for the Society of Quantitative Analysts' 50th Anniversary Gala taking place in NYC. February 1, 2016 The PFS welcomes visiting research scholar Co-Pierre George from Deutsche Bundesbank and the University of Cape Town to the Risk Management Initiative this spring. December 4-6, 2015 The Private Equity Program will be hosting its fifth annual Deal Camp in Montauk, NY. November 6, 2015 Conference on "Corporate Debt Market Structure, Liquidity and Volatility" jointly presented by FINRA and the Programs in Law and Economics of Capital Markets and in Financial Studies at Columbia University. Email [email protected] to register. October 8, 2015 The Silfen Leadership Series and Program for Financial Studies present Bob Steel, CEO, Perella Weinberg, interviewed by PFS Faculty Director, Charles Calomiris. July 1, 2015 Charles Calomiris, Henry Kaufman Professor of Financial Institutions, is appointed as the new faculty director of the Program for Financial Studies → April 20, 2015 Melina Robbana, Program Director, will co-teach "Accelerating Your Career in Investment Banking" at Columbia Business School on April 23. Students can register through COIN → April 13, 2015 The No Free Lunch April 2 recordings are now available → April 9, 2015 Melina Robbana, Program Director, will present at the LBO Valuation and Modeling workshop at Columbia Business School on April 15 → February 3, 2015 The Program for Financial Studies welcomes Harry Mamaysky as a visiting research scholar → January 28, 2015 The Program for Financial Studies' No Free Lunch Seminar Series was a great success in 2014! Watch the two most viewed videos: Neng Wang's Valuing Private Equity and Emi Nakamura's Is China Slowing? → December 17, 2014 "Capital Structure in Major Corporations" video and photographs, featuring Martin Schroeter, CFO of IBM, and Professor Laurie Simon Hodrick, are now available → December 16, 2014 The Fourth Annual Program for Financial Studies Conference was a great success. Videos and photographs of the event are now available → July 8, 2014 If the recent New York Times article sparked your interest in James Gorman, watch this video of his keynote at our conference → January 16, 2013 The No Free Lunch Seminar Series has been heralded as a best practice by BizEd magazine → four-block 6th Annual News & Finance Conference Friday, April 1, 2022 - Conference videos Click HERE for the agenda. four-block Contact the Program for Financial Studies Harry Mamaysky Professor of Professional Practice in Finance and Faculty Director Program for Financial Studies (PFS) Master of Science in Financial Economics (MSFE) [email protected] Melina Denebeim '12 Co-Director Program for Financial Studies (PFS) Master of Science in Financial Economics (MSFE) [email protected] four-block The Program for Financial Studies has partnered with the Master of Science in Financial Economics (MSFE) degree at the Business School. We would like to congratulate the graduating class of 2022! For more information about the MSFE program, please visit: https://academics.gsb.columbia.edu/msfe Make a Gift About Us Directories RSS Feeds Hiring Media Inquiries Contact Us Directions Follow on Twitter instagram Like on Facebook Follow on YouTube Connect on LinkedIn © Columbia University Columbia University in the City of New York 665 West 130th Street, New York, NY 10027 212-854-1100 Privacy and Policy Statements Return to Top