Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Graduation Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Graduation > Regalia Graduation Menu Search for: Home Class of 2022 Response form 2022 University Commencement Regalia Affinity Graduation Celebrations Student Speaker Contest Visa Support Letter Other Graduation Events Classes of 2020 and 2021 Response form 20/21 University Commencement Regalia Keynote Speaker Harvard Chan Live Speaker Profiles Getting to Campus Visa Support Letter Alumni Graduation Timeline November Graduation Timeline March Graduation Timeline May Graduation Timeline Diploma, Registration, Dissertation, Tuition & Health Insurance Information Loan Exit Counseling Requirements Awards Post-Graduation FAQs Information for Faculty Information for Guests Transportation and shuttles Regalia Order Regalia (deadline April 9, 2022) All graduating students participating in Commencement are required to wear the official Harvard Rental regalia with the Harvard Crows Feet (insignia), as approved by The Harvard University Commencement Office and distributed by The Harvard Coop. Photos of regalia are visible on the ordering page. MASTER Rental Packages – $88 Package includes a Mortar Board Cap and Tassel for you to keep as a memento of your achievements. Gowns and hoods are rentals and must be returned to The Coop after Commencement. DrPH/SD/PhD Crimson DOCTORAL Rental Packages – $185 Package includes a soft Tam and Tassel for you to keep as a memento. Crimson gowns and hoods are rentals and must be returned to The Coop after Commencement. $185.00 If you are unsure about your attendance at Commencement, you should still place your order before the deadline. The Harvard Coop will issue a full refund for unopened, and unused Regalia orders at any time, through May 31, 2022. Regalia Pick Up Rental Regalia may be picked up from the Countway Coop on the following dates and times: Thursday, May 19, 10 am-5 pm Friday, May 20, 10 am-5 pm Monday, May 23, 10 am-5 pm Tuesday, May 24, 10am-5 pm Wednesday, May 25, 8 am-6 pm Thursday, May 26, 8 am-5 pm News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College