Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Internal Audits About Contact What is Internal Audits? Reporting Structure Management Audit and Compliance Committee Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Audit Processes and Services Internal Audits Process Types of Audits and Services Audit Cycle Plans Resources ≡ Menu About Contact What is Internal Audits? Reporting Structure Management Audit and Compliance Committee Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Audit Processes and Services Internal Audits Process Types of Audits and Services Audit Cycle Plans Resources Internal Audits provides quality, independent evaluations of designated University activities as a service to Temple University and the Board of Trustees. Anonymous and Confidential Reporting Please use the Temple University Ethics and Compliance Helpline, hosted by EthicsPoint to submit an anonymous and confidential report related to ethics or compliance at Temple and/or regarding concerns such as: suspected theft, fraud, waste or abuse; exposure of confidential information; noncompliance with regulatory and legal requirements; lack of regard for university policies; and issues related to data integrity and submission. For more information, refer to Ethics & Compliance The helpline is available 24/7 online or by telephone at 844-755-3394 Make a Report What is Internal Audits? Internal Audits' primary responsibility is to review significant functions at Temple University and to help ensure that: internal controls and safeguards are adequate and effective, generally accepted accounting principles are being followed, selected regulatory and legal requirements are being complied with, and University policies and procedures are being followed. Find Out More Contact Us (215) 926-2077 (phone) (215) 926-2078 (fax) Mitten Hall 1913 N. Broad Street, lower level suite 080 Philadelphia, PA 19122 Contact Us Temple University Internal Audits 2450 W. Hunting Park Avenue, 1st floor Philadelphia, PA 19129 Cherry and White Directory Maps and Directions Contact TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Copyright , Temple University. All rights reserved.