Tuck COVID-19 Information and Campus Updates Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Loading... Menu Search Tuck About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Meet the Dean Facts & Figures See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations MBA Admissions Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Life at Tuck Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Centers Career Services Finance Your Degree Business Bridge Executive Education Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Academic Groups Faculty Recruiting Research & Insights Faculty in the News Research Highlights News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Recruiting Executive Education myTUCK Master of Health Care Delivery Science About Why Tuck? Mission, Vision, & Strategy Tuck Leadership Board of Advisors Tuck Asia Pacific Council Tuck Latin America and Caribbean Council Tuck Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) Council TAG Executive Committee MBA Council Meet the Dean Meet Matthew J. Slaughter: Videos Bio & CV Contact the Dean's Office Facts & Figures History See Our Campus (Map) Accessibility Staff Directory Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Dartmouth Collaborations Master of Engineering Management Program Master of Health Care Delivery Science TuckLAB Undergraduate Business Training Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us MBA Student Stories Alumni Stories Tuck 360: MBA Blog Academic Experience Required Curriculum Elective Curriculum Management Science and Quantitative Methods Option First-Year Project Leadership Development TuckGO Centers Academic Calendar Life at Tuck Dartmouth College Diversity Military Veterans Hanover and the Upper Valley Admissions Applying to Tuck Class Profile Admissions Criteria Important Dates Visit and Interview Accessibility Attend an Event Admissions FAQs Connect with Our Community Housing Options Partners and Families Clubs and Activities Tuck Student Board Career Services Employment Statistics Meet Our Career Advisers Top Hiring Companies Recruit a Tuck Student Finance Your Degree Tuition and Costs Scholarships, Fellowships, and Sponsorships Loan Programs Online Resources Financial Aid Applications Financial Aid FAQs Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Business Bridge Executive Education Advanced Management Program Diversity Business Programs Global Leadership Next Step Leadership and Strategic Impact Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Faculty & Research How We Teach Faculty Directory Faculty Recruiting Research Groups Emeriti Faculty in the News Research & Insights Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us News All News School News Research & Insights In the Media Events MBA Program Rankings Social Media For Journalists Join the Tuck Community Apply Today Connect With Us Search Search Tuck Cancel News Search School News Research & Insights Slaughter & Rees Report In the Media Tuck 360: MBA Blog Events For Journalists Social Media Delta Is Cutting Flights to ‘Relieve Pressure’ on Operations Quotes Samuel Engel in an article examining steps Delta is taking to recover from recent issues that have disrupted the company’s operations. May 26, 2022 A Deep Dive into ESPN+ with Russell Wolff Russell Wolff T’94, EVP and general manager of ESPN+, joins SportsPro’s StreamTime podcast to discuss the role of ESPN+ in the wider ESPN business. May 25, 2022 Innovative Concepts to Communicate Science during the COVID-19 Pandemic A feature series compiling concepts created during the pandemic to distill the latest science highlights Dear Pandemic, co-founded by Lindsey Leininger. May 25, 2022 Two Years after George Floyd Pledges, Black Women Still Denied Top Jobs at Largest Companies. This... Quotes Ella Bell Smith in an article examining why Black women are less likely to hold leadership or top executive positions, according to new analysis by USA Today. May 25, 2022 Vehicle Listings Sites Continue to Evolve into Transactions Features CarGurus and CEO Jason Trevisan T’03 in an article exploring how vehicle listing sites are evolving into automotive transaction hubs. May 24, 2022 Sift through All That Tech Rubble and Find a Couple Gems Roger McNamee T’82, managing director of Elevation Partners, joins CNBC to discuss the shifting landscape in technology and how it may impact venture capital investments moving forward. May 24, 2022 Virtual Is the New Reality for M.B.A. Students Quotes Vijay Govindarajan, Sam Lawlor T’22, and pictures T’22s Zoe Huschle and Cam Smith in a feature story about the Virtual Global Insights Expedition course Govindarajan taught this spring. May 20, 2022 CIOs Look to Foster Innovative It Cultures, Post-COVID Features Ron Adner and his book Winning the Right Game in an article exploring how companies are approaching innovation following disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. May 20, 2022 Who Won the U.S.-China Trade War? Quotes Davin Chor in an article examining who won the trade war between the United States and China. May 20, 2022 A Vibrant, Prosperous Economy Calls for a New Approach to Business Roger Hochschild T’90, CEO of Discover Financial Services, coauthors a piece exploring how businesses can thrive by better including their local communities. May 19, 2022 Walking or Biking to Work Could Make You More Productive Features research by Pino Audia and coauthors examining the impact commuting has on job performance. May 18, 2022 The Biggest Challenges for a Hybrid Workplace—and How to Overcome Them Features Sydney Finkelstein in an article exploring how business leaders can best approach a hybrid workplace. May 17, 2022 The 2022 Disruptor 50: How We Chose the List of Companies Mentions Ron Adner in an article about the 2022 CNBC Disrupter 50. Adner served on the Disruptor 50 Advisory Council that helped select the included companies. May 17, 2022 Tech Power Players 50 Features Andy Palmer T’94, founder and CEO of Tamr, as one of the top 50 people influencing the technology industry in Massachusetts. May 16, 2022 Business Travel Resumes, Though Not at Its Former Pace Quotes Evan Konwiser T’08, executive vice president of product and strategy for American Express Global Business Travel, in an article about the return of business travel and how it is evolving. May 15, 2022 Poets&Quants’ Best 40-Under-40 Business School Professors of 2022 Poets&Quants’ annual list of the 40 best business professors under 40 highlights Prasad Vana. May 13, 2022 Meet Bret Bero—Rhymes with ‘Hero’—A Candidate for Lieutenant Governor A feature story about Bret Bero T’85, a candidate for lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. May 12, 2022 Ron Adner: Strategic Guidance for a New World of “Ecosystem Disruption” A feature interview with Ron Adner about his book Winning the Right Game, business ecosystem disruption, and the new ideas that underlie modern strategy thinking. May 11, 2022 ‘Flight Shame’ and the Return of Business Travel Evan Konwiser T’08, EVP of product and strategy at American Express Global Business Travel, joins the Financial Times’ Working It podcast to discuss the return of business travel and how it might evolve in the coming years. May 10, 2022 We Asked MBAs How They Got into Top Schools. Here’s What They Told Us Features T’22s Lulu Carter, Drew Hazel, and Lia Parker-Belfer in an article collecting the application experiences from MBA graduates in the class of 2022. May 09, 2022 Women of the C-Suite: Wendy Pease of Rapport International on the Five Things You Need to... A feature interview with Wendy Pease T’97, CEO of Rapport International, a language services company that provides high quality written translation and spoken interpretation. May 08, 2022 Please Tell Us How Much You Liked This Article: Customer Service Surveys Quotes Leela Srinivasan T’06, CMO at checkout.com, in an article about the proliferation of online customer service surveys. May 06, 2022 This Is Not Your Grandfather’s MBA Quotes Cynthia Madu D’15, T’22 and mentions Tuck in an opinion piece examining how business schools are tackling deeper philosophical problems within their curriculums. May 05, 2022 Why Do So Many Americans Distrust Science? Features Lindsey Leininger in an article exploring public distrust in science. May 04, 2022 Rules of Success for Rebranding Features Kevin Lane Keller in an article exploring how companies should approach rebranding. May 04, 2022 After State Abortion Fights, Corporate America Braces for End of Roe Quotes Paul Argenti in an article examining how corporations may respond should the Supreme Court overturn Roe v. Wade. May 04, 2022 Researchers Taught A.I. to Write Wine and Beer Reviews and They’re Pretty Convincing Features new research by Praveen Kopalle, Prasad Vana, and coauthors Keith Carlson, Allen Riddell and Daniel Rockmore that developed an artificial intelligence algorithm capable of writing reviews for wine and beer. May 03, 2022 Elon Musk Is Buying Twitter. Do Vermont Social Media Users Care? Paul Argenti joins Vermont Edition to discuss Elon Musk’s acquisition of Twitter and how he might approach the idea of free speech on the platform. May 03, 2022 A Powerhouse For MBA Career Placement Stephen Pidgeon T’07, executive director of career services, authors a piece about Tuck’s distinct approach to career services. May 02, 2022 How Companies Can Prepare for a Long Run of High Inflation Vijay Govindarajan coauthors a piece examining how businesses can prepare for a long run of high inflation. May 02, 2022 YouTube Announces Partnership With Paramount at NewFronts Kickoff Event Quotes Kate Jhaveri T'03, CMO at the NBA, in an article about how brands can partner with content creators. May 02, 2022 The Growing Imperative to Build Leadership in Fourth Industrial Revolution Vijay Govindarajan and coauthors pen an article arguing that the U.S. has an opportunity to become a leader in high-tech manufacturing. May 02, 2022 100 Best & Brightest MBAs: Class of 2022 Highlights T’22s Lulu Carter, Drew Hazel, and Lia Parker-Belfer in Poets&Quants’ annual list of the Best & Brightest MBA students from the class of 2022. May 01, 2022 Hybrid Learning Mentions Vijay Govindarajan in an article examining how the COVID-19 pandemic impacted education. Apr 29, 2022 AI Sommelier Generates Wine Reviews without Ever Opening a Bottle A feature story about new research by Praveen Kopalle, Prasad Vana, and coauthors in which the researchers developed an artificial intelligence algorithm capable of writing reviews for wine and beer. Apr 29, 2022 Fridays from the Frontline: Tuckies’ Reflections from the 2022 HBS Africa Business Conference Features a recent Tuck360 blog written by Takunda Ndoro T’22 and Seare Kidane T’23 discussing their experiences at the HBS Africa Business Conference. Apr 29, 2022 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 » 100 Tuck Hall Hanover, NH 03755 USA Center for Business, Government & Society Center for Digital Strategies Center for Entrepreneurship Center for Health Care Center for Private Equity and Venture Capital Revers Center for Energy, Sustainability and Innovation Apply Admissions Financial Aid Application Deadlines Admissions FAQs Contact Directions Campus Map Accessibility Area Lodging Give to Tuck MyTuck for Alumni TuckStuff Store TuckConnect Intranet Employment For Recruiters For Journalists Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Back to Top © , The Trustees of Dartmouth College. All rights reserved. | Privacy