Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Women and LGBT Center Women at SMU Women at SMU Women's Programs Women's Resources LGBT at SMU LGBT at SMU LGBT Programs LGBT Resources Trans@SMU Student Organizations Women’s Symposium About Us ☰ A supportive climate for all SMU Student Affairs Women and LGBT Center Women and LGBT Center The Women and LGBT Center empowers students to increase awareness and understanding of gender equity issues. The center gives voice for women and the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community, with purpose to eliminate barriers, diminish prejudices, and create a supportive climate and space for all. We reach out to the SMU community to create dialogue around gender issues and LGBT initiatives. Through our student organizations, you have the opportunity to make a mark on this campus. And, through our programs, you have the opportunity to enrich your campus experience and create a supportive climate and space for all. Women at SMU SMU has a long tradition of supporting women and gender equity on our campus. Discover the Women and gender programs that we offer that are just as relevant in your life today. Women Programs & Resources LGBT at SMU Check out all the ways that you can get involved in our vibrant LGBTQ+ campus community. LGBT Programs & Resources Trans at SMU Learn about the resources that the Women & LGBT Center offers to our transgender community. Transgender Resources Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share