Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Management Welcome Programs Faculty Research FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact PreviousNext Take Action MGMT News & Events Research Colloquia Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online Facebooktwitter Home MGMT Welcome Welcome to the Department of Management in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. The mission of our department is to enhance the business and academic careers of our students by providing rigorous and relevant management curricula. We offer courses that are strengthened by our faculty's research programs and consulting experience.Through our BBA, professional MBA, executive MBA, customer-driven MBA, and online MBA programs, we prepare students for careers in a globally competitive and technology-driven marketplace. Through our PhD program, we prepare students for faculty positions at research-oriented academic institutions.We contribute to the intellectual development of the management discipline through rigorous and relevant scientific research. Our faculty members are nationally and internationally recognized for their research that they publish in premier scholarly journals. We contribute to the business community’s development through consulting, employee training and development, and other professional outreach activities.Our faculty members have diverse areas of expertise including human resource management, organizational behavior, leadership, organization theory, strategic management, international management, entrepreneurship and innovation, business communication, and organizational research methods. Our faculty hold doctoral degrees from universities such as Central Florida, CU-Boulder, George Mason, Kentucky, Memphis, Ohio State, Penn State, Purdue, Rice, SUNY-Albany, Texas, and Vanderbilt. Please browse our web pages for more information about our faculty, PhD students, degree programs, and research programs. If you have any questions, feel free to contact me. Thank you for visiting the Department of Management in the Fogelman College of Business and Economics at the University of Memphis. Management Department Strategic Plan 2015-2020 Management Department Advisory Board Dr. Kurt Kraiger Chair, Department of Management Professor of Management E-mail: Kurt.Kraiger@memphis.edu Check out our brochure for more information! With a major in Management, you’ll study how different leadership qualities translate into effective management skills. Our program will teach you how to employ tangible skills, along with offering data-driven organizational tools and analytics to prepare you for management positions in a wide spectrum of industries, business sectors, nonprofit organizations and government... Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.