Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Language and International Business (B.A.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Right now is an exciting time to prepare for a career in the global marketplace, using advanced language skills in the field of international business. With a major in language and international business (originally known as language and international trade), you choose an intensive foreign language study in Chinese, French, German, Japanese or Spanish. Old boundaries are dissolving rapidly, and doing business often means doing business abroad. Students who choose this major want to immerse themselves in another language and another culture. They want to learn how to live, work and succeed in a business environment that’s anything but local. FAST FACTS You will spend at least one semester studying abroad. You will have many ways to build proficiency in your chosen language, from the language lab to language clubs to conversing with your host family during study abroad. Intensive tutoring is available through Clemson's Academic Success Center. The Clemson Language Immersion program helps prepare you for study abroad. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY In addition to 120 hours of coursework, you will be required to complete an approved study abroad program so you can immerse yourself in the target language and culture you have studied in the classroom. You'll also complete an approved internship with an international company, either here in the U.S. or abroad. Curriculum Language and International Business, B.A. Popular Minors Chinese French German Japanese Spanish Similar Majors Economics (B.S./B.A.) Financial Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Honing your skills in your target language is key to success in this program, and you’ll have lots of options to do so outside the classroom. Study Abroad Study abroad and exchange programs are offered in countries around the world, including Argentina, Belgium, China, Ecuador, France and Japan. Learn More » Language Lab The Language Lab offers additional opportunities to practice and advance your language skills with hands-on approaches to media and technology essential for your studies. Conference The annual Language and International Trade Conference brings business executives from international corporations and business leaders to campus for two days of talks, networking and roundtable sessions.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Creative Inquiry Language Professional Studies AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% INTERNATIONAL CITIES Val-d'Isère, France Paris, France Sydney, Australia Deusto, Spain Bavaria, Germany London, England Costa Rica Senegal RECENT EMPLOYERS Project Purchasing Buyer Bosch Rexroth Human Resources Generalist JTEKT North America Corporation Export Traffic - Latin America MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company Associate Account Manager Techtronic Industries Analyst Management Consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.A. Global Strategic Management ESADE Business & Law School (Barcelona) Master of International Business University of Deusto (Spain) M.S. Sociology London School of Economics and Political Science M.A. Fashion Marketing LIM College M.A. Journalism & Public Affairs (Broadcasting) American University COMMON CAREER AREAS International Business Management Marketing and Sales Product Management Production Customer Service Purchasing Finance and Accounting Import and Export Transportation Travel and Tourism Nonprofit Study Abroad Administration International Exchange Programs Arts Administration Grant Writing Foreign Missions Charitable Organizations International Relations and Government Translating and Interpreting International Trade Administration International Law Foreign Service Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jessica Garcia Recruiter jgarci6@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Language and International Business (B.A.) Economics (B.S./B.A.) Financial Management (B.S.) Marketing (B.S.)