More details Skip to main content Dartmouth Home Search Index Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar Enrollment Transcript Registration ORC/Catalog Calendars Faculty About Us Request a Transcript View Term Calendar Registration Schedule Final Exam Schedule Related Sites Timetable Change Link Change Link Office of the Registrar Dartmouth College Office of the Registrar 6014 McNutt Hall Hanover, NH 03755-3541 Phone: (603) 646-2246 Fax: (603) 646-2247 Email: registrar@Dartmouth.EDU Guides Course Assessment Introduction Faculty Guides Student Guides Faculty BannerStudent for Faculty Course Election Web/PDF guides Online Grading Guide to Course Assessment Reports IRA (Institutional Reporting and Analysis System) Reference Guide Course Assessment Quick Reference Guide Entering Textbook Information FERPA Staff Course Election Web/PDF guides Students Course Election Web/PDF guides Course Assessment Guides for Students Student Name Change Guide Quicklinks DartHub Banner Forms Guides Course Assessment Timetable of Class Meetings Transfer Terms Glossary of Dartmouth Terminology Annual Report Fast Facts about Dartmouth Home > Reference Guides Chair's Guide A handbook for Department and Program Chairs. Course Assessment Information regarding Dartmouth College's course assessment system, including the assessment schedule for the academic year and information on how to interpret reports. Course Election Reference Guides - description of Dartmouth Registration Procedures Students Faculty Staff Course Information Flow Graphic A visual guide to course information flow. Course Information Tools A guide for what information to enter in what course information entry tool. Course IP Manager Guide A guide for departments/programs to manage instructor permission (IP) restrictions on courses. Credits & Exemptions Guides Credit definitions at Dartmouth College and instructions for Department/Program tools. Curricular Guidelines Charts to provide assistance to departments and programs to initiate curricular changes. DCARS - Dartmouth Course Approval Routing System Online tool used both to propose new and update existing courses according to Dartmouth's governance structure. D-Plan Guide How to change your D-Plan online. DartWorks Guides Information on using DartWorks degree audit, and online major/minor declaration and program planner. Department/Program Dashboard Guide Set of reports that departments/programs use to confirm their current or past enrollments, current majors, minors, and modifiers, major grades, class year graduation term information and more. Faculty Guide A handbook for all faculty members. Faculty Quick Guide Answers to some of faculty members’ most commonly asked questions. FERPA Tutorial A quick online FERPA tutorial introducing you to FERPA, the Federal student records law. Final Grades Assigning final grades on BannerStudent. Local Placement Test Student Selection and Score Entry Guide LP test score entry procedures Major Standings A step-by-step guide to using the Major Standings tool. Name Pronunciation Tool Guide ORC/Catalog Guides ORC update procedures and materials. Reduce Course Load Guide A guide to the electronic process of reducing courses. Textbook Tool Guide How to enter textbook information for courses. Timetable Editor Guides A step-by-step guide to using the Timetable Editor tool. Transcript Ordering Guide How to order Official Transcripts. Contact Us Top of page | Privacy | Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College Last Updated: 9/2/20