Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases Menu Search for: Home About the Department Department History Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Faculty Research Appointees Student Profiles Staff New Staff Announcement Archive Degree Programs Global Infectious Diseases Summer Program Short Research Experiences IID Initiatives IID News Events IID Seminars Series IID Research Updates Socials Contact Us IID Research Groups New Researcher Announcement Archive Resources Social Distancing Resources Unity Focusing on the biological, immunological, epidemiological, and ecological aspects of viral, bacterial, and protozoan diseases, primarily in developing countries. @TIME Vaccine scientists are Time‘s Heroes of the Year. Harvard Chan School’s @KizzyPhD with @BarneyGrahamMD @kkariko @WeissmanLab, worked on an innovative & highly effective vaccine platform based on mRNA that will impact our health far beyond this pandemic. The Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases (IID) was formed in 1997 when the Departments of Cancer Biology, Molecular and Cellular Toxicology, and Tropical Public Health were merged. The department focuses on the biological, immunological, epidemiological, and ecological aspects of viral, bacterial, and protozoan diseases of animals and humans, including the vectors that transmit infectious agents. Read More In this episode of “Better Off,” Harvard Chan School immunologist Sarah Fortune takes on common misconceptions about COVID-19 vaccines, and discusses the ways that mRNA technology could be used to create vaccines for diseases like TB and cancer. February 19, Coronavirus (COVID-19) Press Conference with Barry Bloom and William Hanage Press conference from the Harvard School of Public Health with Barry Blum, the Joan L. and Julius H. Jacobson research professor of public health and former dean of the school, and William Hanage, associate professor of epidemiology and a faculty member in the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics. This call was recorded at 11 a.m. Eastern Time on Friday, February 19th. Global Infectious Diseases Summer Program This program is designed for students, public health officers, clinicians, and scientists who are seeking advanced training in infectious diseases that disproportionally affect individuals in resource-limited areas, especially in issues of control and prevention. Homepage images by Len Rubenstein Latest News from the Department: The 100 Most Influential People of 2022 Tulio de Oliveira and Sikhulile Moyo A better antibiotic for tuberculosis treatment Harim Won is using a new approach to turn a normal protein system in the bacterial cell against itself. The infectious disease that nobody ever thinks about To mark World TB Day, March 24, Sarah Fortune, discusses the state of the disease worldwide, obstacles to fighting it, and the latest research. As Omicron wanes, what is the state of the pandemic? What will the future of SARS-CoV-2 look like, and what should we as a community consider in our response to changing conditions? Kizzmekia Corbett on the omicron variant and the the future of mRNA vaccines Washington Post Live Podcast - Jan 4th Kizzmekia Corbett’s work represents the best of what science offered us in 2021 Years’ worth of dedicated research, including hers, is paying off in lifesaving shots in arms and conversations with people who have questions. Follow HSPH on TwitterMy Tweets Events Calendar Loading view. There are no upcoming events. June 2022 Calendar of Events M Mon T Tue W Wed T Thu F Fri S Sat S Sun 0 events, 30 0 events, 30 0 events, 31 0 events, 31 0 events, 1 0 events, 1 0 events, 2 0 events, 2 0 events, 3 0 events, 3 0 events, 4 0 events, 4 0 events, 5 0 events, 5 0 events, 6 0 events, 6 0 events, 7 0 events, 7 0 events, 8 0 events, 8 0 events, 9 0 events, 9 0 events, 10 0 events, 10 0 events, 11 0 events, 11 0 events, 12 0 events, 12 0 events, 13 0 events, 13 0 events, 14 0 events, 14 0 events, 15 0 events, 15 0 events, 16 0 events, 16 0 events, 17 0 events, 17 0 events, 18 0 events, 18 0 events, 19 0 events, 19 0 events, 20 0 events, 20 0 events, 21 0 events, 21 0 events, 22 0 events, 22 0 events, 23 0 events, 23 0 events, 24 0 events, 24 0 events, 25 0 events, 25 0 events, 26 0 events, 26 0 events, 27 0 events, 27 0 events, 28 0 events, 28 0 events, 29 0 events, 29 0 events, 30 0 events, 30 0 events, 1 0 events, 1 0 events, 2 0 events, 2 0 events, 3 0 events, 3 There are no upcoming events. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. There are no events on this day. View Calendar A Short History Of Humans And Germs: Early Encounters | Goats & Soda For most of human history, we had a lot of bad ideas about how we were getting sick: angry gods, misaligned planets, stinky fumes. We also had plenty of bad ideas about how to prevent it, like bloodletting, large holes in the head and drinking arsenic. Video courtesy of NPR. News from the School Congratulations graduates! Probing disease disparities Saving a daughter, starting a career Tackling disparities and stigma around obesity, mental health Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website