Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary THE INFORMATION SCHOOL THE INFORMATION SCHOOL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT & TECHNOLOGY Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 IMT 500 Foundations of Information Management (4) Examines the role and function of information and information management in individual, organizational, community, and social contexts. Topics include defining information and information management concepts; overview of systems and systems architecture, methods of managing information and information flows within organizations; and internal and external communication in professional settings. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 500 IMT 510 Human Aspects of Information Systems (4) Social, organizational, cognitive, behavioral, and contextual aspects of information, including basic concepts in human information behavior, conceptual and practical frameworks used to study human-information interaction, and social responses to information technology. User-based and work-based evaluation and design of information systems. Exposure to experimental and interview methodologies. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 510 IMT 511 Introduction to Programming for Information and Data Science (4) Introduces fundamentals of computer programming as used for data science. Covers foundational skills necessary for writing stand-alone computer scripts, including programming syntax, data structuring, and procedural definition (functions). Includes programming tools and environments (e.g., command-line). Emphasizes skills in language syntax, debugging, algorithmic thinking, and data comprehension. Assumes no previous programming background. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 511 IMT 519 Information Science Study Abroad (1-8, max. 18) International seminar, led by Information School faculty or researchers. Each addresses a specialized area of information studies. Topics vary. Some seminars may require language proficiency. See the UW Study Abroad website for information on specific offerings in any given year. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 519 IMT 525 Information Management and Technology in Sports (3) Explores the information perspective, including the role and the use of information, information management, and information technologies applied to the sports context. Examines modern and emerging information management and technology systems and their design and use in administering intercollegiate athletic functions. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 525 IMT 530 Organization of Information Resources (4) Introduction to issues in organization of information and information objects including analysis of intellectual and physical characteristics of information objects; use of metadata and metadata standards for information systems; theory of classification, including semantic relationships and facet analysis; creation of controlled vocabularies; and display and arrangement. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 530 IMT 535 Introduction to Information Architecture (5) Introduces concepts and methods of front- and back-end information architecture. Covers back-end topics including data and content modeling, taxonomy, controlled vocabulary, SEO, search, and analytics. Covers front-end topics including design thinking, design process, design patterns, navigation, workflow, labeling, orientation, and information scent. Unifies front- and back-end IA. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 535 IMT 539 Metadata Design (3) Design principles of metadata schemas and application profiles - implementation of interoperable application profiles using XML technology. Focuses on achieving syntactic and semantic interoperability among diverse metadata schemas and application profiles. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 539 IMT 540 Design Methods for Interactive Systems (4) Introduction to the theory and practice of user-centered design. Examines design methods for identifying and describing user needs, specifying and prototyping new systems, and evaluating the usability of systems. Examines design methodologies such as contextual design and value-sensitive design, giving specific emphasis to human-information interaction. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 540 IMT 541 Enterprise Information Systems Analysis and Design (4) Theoretical and practical examination of information systems analysis and design processes as they apply in the workplace. Explores techniques for assessing system and technology needs, defining information and work specifications, process and data modeling, and stakeholder analysis process; and input and output design, database design, test plans and implantation strategies in the design process. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 541 IMT 542 Information Structures Using XML (4) Introduces the concepts and methods used to analyze, store, manage, and present information and navigation. Equal weight given to understanding structures and implementing them. Topics include information analysis and organizational methods as well as XML and metadata concepts and application. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 542 IMT 543 Relational Database Management Systems (4) Introduces relational database design, implementation, and management, with a focus on using relational database management systems (DBMS) to manage data in an organization. Topics include: data modeling tools and techniques, conceptual and logical database design, physical implementation, SQL, data management, and database administration. Recommended: LIS 502. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 543 IMT 546 Data Communications and Networking (4) Covers local and wide-area computer networking including topologies and hardware, packet switching, client/server architectures, network protocols, and network servers and applications. Also addresses server operating systems, management, security, authentication, and policy issues associated with distributed networks. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 546 IMT 547 Social Media Data Mining and Analysis (4) Explores techniques for collecting and analyzing social media. Students gain direct experience with methods for collecting a social media corpus, defining features of activity that are relevant for analysis, and analyzing those features. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 547 IMT 549 Beginning Web Development (4) Teaches students how to build custom websites/applications from scratch, manage files in a version control system, and deploy them to publicly-accessible web servers. Focus is on client-side technologies, including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Existing basic programming knowledge is beneficial but not required. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 549 IMT 550 Policy and Ethics in Information Management (4) Explores a range of information issues in the social and organizational context of information professionals, including professional ethics, privacy, freedom of expression, and intellectual property. Gives students tools for analysis of the kinds of social and ethical issues that will arise in their future lives as information professionals. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 550 IMT 551 Foundations of Organizational Information Assurance (3) Concepts, elements, strategies, skills related to life cycle of information assurance--involving policies, practices, mechanisms, dissemination, and validation--that ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information and information systems. Analyzes the information assurance planning process, including determination and analysis of information assurance organization goals, threat spectrum, risk, and legal and ethical issues. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 551 IMT 552 Information Assurance Risk Assessment and Management (3) Examines the concepts, processes, and skills related to risk management in information assurance involving risk assessment, risk analysis, and mitigation planning. Analysis of the risk management process through several structured approaches that facilitate information assurance decision-making. Prerequisite: IMT 551. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 552 IMT 553 Establishing and Managing Information Assurance Strategies (3) Applies and combines information assurance concepts, processes, and skills to solve case studies from practitioner experiences and explore the role of policy in creating a successful information assurance program. Prerequisite: IMT 551, IMT 552. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 553 IMT 555 Foundations of Cybersecurity (4) Examines information security challenges and solutions, which information management professionals contend with when providing technology services and applications based on premises and cloud platforms. Students solidify the terminology and security architecture via hands-on labs using open source and cloud-based tools. Security topics selected from industry-standard frameworks. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 555 IMT 556 Information and Operational Risk (3) Examines the information dimensions of the most common types of operational risk including: internal and external fraud, regulatory noncompliance, processing errors, information security breaches, and technology failures; practical application of operational risk frameworks where the intersection of people, information, processes, systems, and external events can lead to financial loss. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 556 IMT 557 Operational Risk Management in the Public and Private Sectors (3) Learn to identify, monitor, and mitigate operational risk exposures in corporations and government agencies, analyze risk appetites, and drive risk awareness at each level of corporate or government hierarchies. Examines technology failure and information sharing in crisis management, intellectual property, and data risk in various infrastructure sectors. Prerequisite: IMT 556. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 557 IMT 558 Leading and Managing Enterprise Information Security (4) Examines the elements of managing and leading enterprise information security programs from a leadership perspective. Students review real world scenarios and explore challenges facing information security leaders. Develop an information security plan and program that meets the culture and goals of a company to address the challenging threat environment. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 558 IMT 559 Cybersecurity Functions and Trends (4) Presents and analyzes cybersecurity technologies from a technical leadership stance to prepare information management professionals who will lead cybersecurity technical projects and information security teams. Introduces contemporary cybersecurity topics such as data analytics, digital forensic methodologies and cybersecurity applied in IoT (Internet of Things) and SDN (Software Defined Networks). View course details in MyPlan: IMT 559 IMT 561 Visualization Design (4) Students develop a human-centered visualization design practice using real-world data. This process includes applying graphic principles of visual encoding to data; conducting design explorations using sketches and prototyping; and gathering user feedback to assess output. Design workshops provide opportunities for hands-on engagement with concepts and technical skills. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 561 IMT 562 Interactive Information Visualization (4) Introduces techniques for visualizing, analyzing, and supporting interaction with structured data )numbers, text, graphs). Provides experience creating interactive visualizations for the web. Exposes students to cognitive science, statistics, and perceptual psychology principles. Students design and evaluate visualizations using perceptual and statistical accuracy. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 562 IMT 563 Advanced Relational Database Management Systems (4) Conducts deeper investigation into construction of high-volume, robust database systems from conception through deployment. Topics include Enhanced ERDs, explicit transaction-management (control-of-flow, error-handling), coded business rules, troubleshooting and optimization. Investigation of disaster recovery, security, high-availability and scalability solutions as well as NoSQL and data warehousing topics. Prerequisite: IMT 543, LIS 543. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 563 IMT 565 Designing Information Experiences (4) Explores experience design including user experience, customer experience, and service design. Covers the philosophical foundations of experience, how to design and evaluate experiences, and the business aspects of customer experience. The focus is on experiences of and with information. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 565 IMT 569 Capstone I: Project Preparation (1) Preparation for implementing a capstone project. Topics include choosing a project, team formation, professional communication with a project sponsor, identifying the scope of the project, assessing feasibility, developing a project charter and sponsor agreement. Prerequisite: completion of all MSIM core courses. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 569 IMT 570 Data Driven Organizational Problem Solving for Information Management Professionals (4) Provides students with analytical skills and a systematic approach to solve complex problems related to information management in organizations. Using an applied project, students are introduced to problem solving methods and a variety of data gathering and analysis techniques, culminating in the development of effective, data driven, recommendations specific to information management, systems, and product development. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 570 IMT 571 Social Network Analysis (4) Provide students with an understanding of the fundamental concepts, common methods, and analytical tools of social network analysis. Student will gain experience applying both exploratory and inferential methods to real-world problems with in the social network domain. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 571 IMT 572 Introduction to Data Science (4) Introduces a broad, non-technical overview of key concepts, skills, and technologies used in "data science". Provides a high-level introduction to common data science pipelines, such as experimental design, data collection and storage, basic analytics, machine learning, and data visualization, focusing on analyzing in real-world datasets using industry standard statistical packages. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 572 IMT 573 Data Science I: Theoretical Foundations (4) Introduces technically focused theoretical foundations of "Data Science." Provides an overview of key concepts, focusing on foundational concepts such as exploratory data analysis and statistical inference. Assignments are data-intensive, and require significant programming and statistical analysis. Students are expected to have college-level statistics and programming experience (R and python preferred). Prerequisite: either QMETH 201, IMT 570, or equivalent college coursework; and either CSE 121, CSE 122, CSE 123, CSE 142, or equivalent college coursework. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 573 IMT 574 Data Science II: Machine Learning (4) Provides theoretical and practical introduction to modern techniques for the analysis of large-scale, heterogeneous data. Covers key concepts in inferential statistics, supervised and unsupervised machine learning, and network analysis. Students learn functional, procedural, and statistical programming techniques for working with real-world data. Prerequisite: IMT 573. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 574 IMT 575 Data Science III: Scaling, Applications, and Ethics (4) Challenges and opportunities of data science at massive scale. Covers systems and languages for manipulating data across hundreds of computers, tools and techniques for building large-scale neural models for text and images, and the impact on privacy and equity as these large-scale models proliferate. Prerequisite: IMT 574. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 575 IMT 576 Foundations of Strategic and Managerial Business Intelligence (4) Provides a broad overview of business intelligence (BI) including foundational BI concepts,strategies, techniques, and technologies. Primary emphasis is on the strategic and managerial perspective, focusing on how one designs, implements, and leverages business intelligence systems and strategies in management and leadership roles. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 576 IMT 577 Business Intelligence Systems (4) Introduces fundamentals of how to architect and develop business intelligence systems for decision making. Topics include dimensional data modeling; extracting, transforming, and loading data (ETL); online analytical processing (OLAP); data warehouse architecture; developing data visualizations to answer key business questions. Recommended: Students are expected to have basic relational database and SQL knowledge. INFX 543 is recommended for students without this knowledge. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 577 IMT 578 Research Seminar (1-4, max. 10) Students work in teams under the supervision of individual faculty members to engage in research or design activities and learn through hands-on participation and study. Learning activities include data collection, data analysis, building prototypes, testing or evaluation, or dissemination activities. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 578 IMT 580 Management and Strategic Leadership (4) Introduction to strategic leadership of information organizations. Examines key topics drawn from organizational theory and behavior, including planning and decision-making, organizational structure, leadership, and diversity and equity. Presents the opportunity to develop and broaden understanding of strategic and operational impact of technology on organizations and their management. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 580 IMT 582 Strategic Information Initiatives (4) Tools, techniques, approaches for identifying and planning entrepreneurial initiatives within organizations, including business information assessments, organizational readiness assessments, alignment with organizational priorities, information audits, processes for obtaining organizational investment in and commitment to new initiatives. Focuses on building business and economic justifications and leading strategic initiatives in organizations. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 582 IMT 585 Consulting Practices (4) Provides overview of skills, practices, and concepts foundational to a career in information management consulting. Topics include consulting concepts, methodologies, approaches to consultative analysis and problem solving, effective technical and interpersonal consulting behaviors, and program management in a consulting environment. Emphasizes interpersonal/communication skills, client relationship management, and change management. Prerequisite: IMT 580. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 585 IMT 586 Information Dynamics I (4) Introduction to the concepts and methods of information feedback, systems thinking, soft systems methodology (SSM), and "soft operations research," as well as the quantitative modeling of complex dynamic systems by means of differential and integral equations (system dynamics). Offered: jointly with INSC 586. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 586 IMT 587 Principles of Information Project Management (4) Introduces project management principles within information-related business contexts. Provides knowledge that managers need to implement information systems on time and within budget. Concentrates on methods and issues in organizing, planning, and controlling projects, and their use of computer-based project management tools. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 587 IMT 588 Enterprise Project Management in Information Organizations (4) Explores roles, responsibilities, and methods of managing enterprise projects. Analyzes critical issues such as the relationship between project management and organizational culture, structure, and processes; cross-functional and globally distributed teams; project governance, metric, and risk and performance management; communication, decision-making, and conflict resolution; and organizational learning, change, and knowledge management. Prerequisite: introductory coursework in project management or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with INSC 588. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 588 IMT 589 Special Topics in Information Management (1-4, max. 12) Special study and research in topics of current concern to faculty and students. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 589 IMT 590 Internship in Information Management (1-5, max. 10) Internship in the private or public sector, jointly supervised by faculty member and an on-site work sponsor. Prerequisite: enrollment in the MSIM program. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 590 IMT 596 Capstone II - Project Planning (2) Analysis and preliminary design of an approved individual or group research or implementation project demonstrating professional-level knowledge and skills. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for LIS 596. Prerequisite: IMT 569. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 596 IMT 597 Capstone III - Project Implementation (2) Implementation of a project demonstrating professional-level knowledge and skills based on a project charter and plan developed in IMT 596. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for LIS 597. Prerequisite: IMT 596. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 597 IMT 598 Emerging Trends in Information Management and Technology (3, max. 12) Focus on emerging trends in information management and information technology. Attention given to their impact on the functions of the chief information officer and others managing the acquisition, retention, use, and disposition of information and the enabling technologies. Exploration of methods and resources for trend discovery and tracking. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 598 IMT 599 Practicum in Information Management (6) Internship,,organization- or faculty-sponsored research project related to information management. Required for MSIM one-year students. Usually offered summer quarter. Prerequisite: IMT 500; IMT 550; IMT 570; and IMT 580 Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 599 IMT 600 Independent Study or Research in Information Management ([1-4]-) Supervised independent study or research. May be taken in as many as six consecutive quarters. Prerequisite: enrollment in the MSIM program. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: IMT 600 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022