Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Faculty Affairs Home Faculty Actions Resources Forms Ranks and Tracks Postdocs Site Navigation Home Faculty Actions Non-Tenure Track Faculty Actions Tenure-Track Faculty Actions Searches & Pre-Selects Tenure-Track Faculty Search Non-Tenure-Track Faculty Search Tenure-Track Faculty Pre-Select Non-Tenure-Track Faculty Pre-Select Faculty Meetings Interfolio Resources Annual Reviews Benefits Resource Opportunities and Effort Guidelines Committee on Public Health Faculty Appointments (PHFA) Sabbaticals and Leaves TPAC (Tenure, Promotions, Appointments, and Reappointments) Forms Ranks and Tracks Affiliate Titles Clinical Professor of the Practice (Research) Research Scholar Teaching Scholar Postdocs Postdoc Search Postdoc Hire More Teaching Resources A page of teaching resources, including monthly Brown-Bag Seminars for teaching faculty, led by Melissa Clark. Go there Looking for forms? If you know what form you need, go directly to the forms page. Go directly to forms page Looking for faculty meetings? Recordings of past faculty meetings, and schedule of upcoming meetings. Go there Welcome to the Office of Faculty Affairs in the School of Public Health. Our office provides support to the over 200 faculty members in our School’s four departments; we oversee recruitment, appointments and promotions, sabbatical leaves, and annual reviews. We work with several offices at Brown on issues related to mentoring, professional development, diversity, and governance; and we manage faculty data and provide reporting within and outside of Brown as needed. The material on these pages is meant to serve as a resource for faculty, department chairs, and department managers. We provide instructions, guidelines, and materials related to faculty appointments and promotions, sabbaticals, annual reviews, and other issues; as well as links to important University resources related to faculty life. We're here to help you: Jerry Logan Assistant Dean of Faculty Affairs [email protected] Vilma Cortez Faculty Affairs Coordinator [email protected] Campus interactive map Send us your feedback Brown University School of Public Health Brown University School of Public Health Brown University Box G-S121-3 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5475 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top