Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCES HISTORY HISTORY SEMINARS AND INDEPENDENT STUDIES Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 HSTRY 100 Advanced Placement (AP) History (5) I&S Course awarded based on Advanced Placement (AP) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 100 HSTRY 108 International Baccalaureate (IB) History (5) I&S Course awarded based on International Baccalaureate (IB) score. Consult the Admissions Exams for Credit website for more information. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 108 HSTRY 199 Foreign Study (3-5, max. 10) I&S Lower-division history courses, for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through the University of Washington Foreign Study Program. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 199 HSTRY 201 History Lecture Series Colloquium (2, max. 8) Students attend weekly lectures through the History Lecture Series, then discuss themes generated from the lectures. Students write reflective papers comparing, contrasting, and expanding upon themes presented. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 201 HSTRY 288 Seminar: Topics in History (5, max. 15) I&S Introduction to the discipline of history. Emphasizes the basic skills of reading, analysis, and communication (both verbal and written) in history. Each seminar discusses a different subject or problem. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 288 HSTRY 388 Colloquium: Introduction to History (5, max. 10) I&S Introduction to the discipline of history for new or prospective majors. Emphasizes the basic skills of reading, analysis, and communication (both verbal and written) that are central to the historian's craft. Each seminar discusses a different subject or problem. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 388 HSTRY 390 Colloquium in History and Science (5) I&S Study in the history of science to bridge the gap between the natural sciences and the humanities. Students should have a strong background both in history and in a natural science. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 390 HSTRY 395 Modern Historical Writing, Honors Seminar (5) I&S New types of problems examined by historians and new techniques that have evolved for solution. Brief historiographical introduction, reaching back to the "scientific" historians of the mid-nineteenth century; continues by examining the impact on historians of new disciplines such as psychology, sociology, and economics, and of new techniques such as statistics and prosopography. Readings in the theorists and in those who followed their lead. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 395 HSTRY 399 Advanced Foreign Study (3-5, max. 15) I&S Upper-division history courses, for which there are no direct University of Washington equivalents, taken through the University of Washington Foreign Study Program. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 399 HSTRY 489 Digital History (5) I&S Raymond Jonas Offers a grounding in some key technologies relevant to research and teaching in the humanities and humanistic social sciences. Introduces an array of relevant technologies, including close and distant readings of texts, mapping and visualization, digital storytelling, content management and migration, and social media. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 489 HSTRY 491 Honors Historical Method (5-) I&S The purposes, materials, and techniques of historical scholarship. Theory, practice, and criticism. For honors students. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 491 HSTRY 492 Honors Historical Method (-5) I&S The purposes, materials, and techniques of historical scholarship. Theory, practice, and criticism. For honors students. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 492 HSTRY 493 Senior Thesis in the History of Science (5, max. 10) I&S Preparation of the senior thesis for the History and Science emphasis. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 493 HSTRY 494 Colloquium in Historiography (5, max. 15) I&S Advanced seminar examining central issues in historiography. Emphasizes reading, discussion, and writing. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 494 HSTRY 495 History Internship (1-5, max. 10) Off-campus independent fieldwork with a community agency in an apprenticeship or internship situation. Work to be jointly supervised by a member of the History Department and an on-site field supervisor. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 495 HSTRY 498 Colloquium in History (5, max. 15) I&S Each seminar examines a different subject or problem. A quarterly list of the seminars and their instructors is available in the Department of History undergraduate advising office. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 498 HSTRY 499 Undergraduate Research (1-5, max. 15) View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 499 HSTRY 500 Perspectives on History (5) View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 500 HSTRY 570 Topics in Teaching History (3) Topics include active learning, teaching writing, assessment, and course design. Designed for history graduate students working or planning to work as TAs or instructors. Students produce a teaching portfolio and conduct peer observations. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 570 HSTRY 571 History as a Profession (3) Prepares history graduate students for both non-academic and academic careers. Course required for second year graduate students in the department of history. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 571 HSTRY 572 Dissertation Prospectus Workshop (3) Students will craft their dissertation prospectuses with their respective PhD chairs and committees, that must approve the prospectus before it is presented to the History Department. In addition to fulfilling a departmental requirement, students can use the prospectus as a component for future funding and employment applications. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 572 HSTRY 595 Historical Practices (5) Emphasizes the interrelatedness of theoretical issues and historical research. Students read works that encourage the rethinking of sources and their historical meaning and experiment with sources, methods, and questions in a set of practical assignments. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 595 HSTRY 596 History Research Seminar (5-, max. 10) Advanced historical research seminar. First in a series of two. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 596 HSTRY 597 History Research Seminar (-5, max. 10) Advanced historical research seminar. Second in a series of two. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 597 HSTRY 598 Methods of Historical Research (5) Exploration of new historical and scholarly techniques employed in historical research. Use of social science methodology and literary theory in the evaluation and interpretation of historical sources. Use of feminist theory, deconstruction, critical theory, and orality/literacy studies. Student research paper is based upon a chosen theoretical approach. View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 598 HSTRY 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 600 HSTRY 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: HSTRY 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022