Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. University Honors Program UHP right arrow down arrow About UHP right arrow down arrow Inclusive Excellence Competencies right arrow down arrow Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us right arrow down arrow Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Current UHP Students right arrow down arrow UHP Student Database UHP Framework & Benefits Requirements Honors Experiences right arrow down arrow Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Fall 2022 Honors Seminars Spring 2023 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Pre-Approved Experiences Self-Designed Experiences Study Abroad and Study Tours International Travel Biomedical Research and Mentoring Program right arrow down arrow RaMP Publications RaMP Project Descriptions How to Apply Matching and Participation Frequently Asked Questions Tips and Testimonials UHP Discover right arrow down arrow Students: Learn More Faculty: Get Involved 2022 UHP Discover Projects Past Honors Seminars right arrow down arrow Summer 2021 Seminars Fall 2021 Honors Seminars Spring 2022 Honors Seminars Summer 2022 Honors Seminars Welcome Experience Leaders UHP Ambassador Leadership Team Grants for Honors Experiences Learning Portfolios right arrow down arrow Reflection Structure and Content Showcase Guide Protected Information Featured Portfolios Year-in-Review Get Involved right arrow down arrow UHP Ambassadors right arrow down arrow Meet the Team Ambassador Application Honor Societies First Year in UHP right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience right arrow down arrow Welcome Experience Registration HNRS 1010: Gateway to the UHP Advising right arrow down arrow Scheduling Advising Meetings via My Bearcat Network Presidential Leadership Medal of Excellence Prospective Students right arrow down arrow High School Students Current UC Students right arrow down arrow Join our Outreach List and Teams University Honors Application Transfer Students University Honors Housing Faculty and Campus Partners right arrow down arrow Honors Seminar Call for Proposals right arrow down arrow Guidelines, Pedagogy and Structure Study Tour Guidelines Submission Process Required Documents Proposal Form Review and Notification Funding Resources Seminar Development Workshops Creating and Ordering Honors Seminars Home » Campus Life » University Honors Program » About UHP » Directions Set Navigation title in component Inclusive Excellence Competencies Community Engagement Creativity Global Studies Leadership Research News Directions Contact Us Raj Mehta Debbie Brawn Marcell Crawford Bria Howard Bene Khoury Neil Choudhury Ashley Webber Kyle Key Jason Autry Tricia Yee Claire Minton Yale Miller Shawna Obregon Danny Hagedorn Vikki Kowalczyk Directions Driving Directions From the North or South via I-75 From I-75, take the Hopple Street exit (Exit 3). Turn right off the exit onto Hopple Street. Hopple Street becomes Martin Luther King Drive. ƒ Follow Martin Luther King Drive until you reach the fourth stoplight. Turn right to enter campus via Woodside Drive. ƒ You are welcome to park in either Woodside Garage (to your right) or Campus Green Garage (to your left). From the West via I-74 Take I-74 East to I-75 South. Take the Hopple Street exit (Exit 3). Turn right off the exit onto Hopple Street. Hopple Street becomes Martin Luther King Drive. ƒ Follow Martin Luther King Drive until you reach the fourth stoplight. Turn right to enter campus via Woodside Drive. ƒ You are welcome to park in either Woodside Garage (to your right) or Campus Green Garage (to your left). From the Northeast via I-71 From I-71 South, take the Taft Road exit (Exit 3). The exit places you on Taft Road, a one-way street heading west. ƒ At the intersection of Taft Road and Jefferson Avenue, follow the right turn lane onto Jefferson Avenue. ƒ At the first light, turn left on to Corry Boulevard. ƒ You may park in the CCM Garage or Corry Garage: You may access Corry Garage from Corry Boulevard by turning left at the first stop sign. The CCM (College-Conservatory of Music) garage is located beneath the CCM complex toward the end of the street. The entrance to the garage is in the center of the street just past the round-about. As you drive into the garage, please note that you will want to exit via the doors by the large Electronic Media sign. University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 honors@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University Honors Program 700 Swift Hall PO Box 210007 Cincinnati, OH 45221-0007 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top