Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Board of Regents Menu Baylor>Board of Regents Baylor University Board of Regents The Mission of Baylor University Pro Ecclesia, Pro Texana The mission of Baylor University is to educate men and women for worldwide leadership and service by integrating academic excellence and Christian commitment within a caring community. About the Board of Regents The Board of Regents is the official governing body of Baylor University. Voting regents are selected by election, with 75% of the membership elected by the Regents themselves and up to 25% elected through a process with the Baptist General Convention of Texas. In addition, beginning in 2016, the Board added "Alumni-Elected Regents." Board of Regents Regents Board of Regents, 2021-2022 Regents Emeriti 2021-2022 Committees Executive Committee Academic Affairs Advancement and Development Audit Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Finance and Facilities Nominating, Governance and Regent Leadership Student Life University Leadership and Compensation Governing Documents Certificate of Formation Bylaws of Baylor University Guidelines for Board Operations Statement of Commitment and Responsibilities Conflict of Interest Policy Conflict of Interest Certification, Disclosure and Information Statement Office of the Board Professional Board Professional - Kristy J. Orr Assistant - Staci Penn Board Meetings News Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Regents Board of Regents, 2021-2022 Mark Rountree Larry P. Heard Melissa Purdy Mines Dennis R. Wiles Jill Manning William 'Bill' E. Mearse Alicia D.H. Monroe Randolph 'Randy' L. Pullin Todd A. Reppert David M. Slover Linda A. Livingstone Faith Cederholm Beaty Jay A. Brown Tyler C. Cooper D. Diane Dillard Sara L. Dolan Sarah Gahm Kristina 'Krissy' Doerner Guidi Michael P. Heiskell Paula R. Hurd Sher Isada Neal Jeffrey Mark E. Lovvorn Katie Jo Luningham René Maciel Michael McFarland B. Todd Patterson Ally Perkins Mark V. Petersen Brian Raines Manny Ruiz Kim Stevens Julie Hermansen Turner Don R. Willett Regents Emeriti Drayton McLane, Jr. Sue Holt Getterman 2021-2022 Committees Executive Committee Academic Affairs Advancement and Development Audit Compliance and Regulatory Affairs Finance and Facilities Nominating, Governance and Regent Leadership Student Life University Leadership and Compensation Governing Documents Certificate of Formation Bylaws of Baylor University Guidelines for Board Operations Statement of Commitment and Responsibilities Conflict of Interest Policy Conflict of Interest Certification, Disclosure and Information Statement Office of the Board Professional Board Professional - Kristy J. Orr Assistant - Staci Penn Board Meetings News