Skip to main content Skip to main navigation College of Arts & Sciences Menu About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give Baylor>Arts & Sciences>About>Arts & Sciences News News Arts & Sciences News May 19 2022 Baylor poetry professor receives national fellowship WACO, Texas (May 19, 2022) - Dr. Ryan Sharp, assistant professor of English, has received a competitive national fellowship designed to support the work of underrepresented faculty members in the humanities and social sciences. May 12 2022 Even cancer couldn’t stop this #BaylorGrad from earning her degree Being 20 years old, away from home at college, and faced with the challenges of a pandemic is hard enough. Now imagine learning that you have cancer and must undergo chemo in the middle of it all. That’s the situation Baylor senior Ellie Kronlokken faced 18 months ago — and yet, this weekend, the Minnesota … May 12 2022 Baylor Religion Professor Receives Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea WACO, Texas (May 12, 2022) – Baylor University Honors College faculty member Candi K. Cann, Ph.D., associate professor of religion in the Baylor Interdisciplinary Core (BIC), has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Award to South Korea, a prestigious and competitive fellowship of the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. May 5 2022 Baylor professor receives NEH grant to complete book on notable medieval poet WACO, Texas (May 5, 2022) - Baylor English professor Sebastian J. Langdell has received a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to complete a book collecting the shorter works of medieval English poet Thomas Hoccleve. Apr 28 2022 Baylor prof’s studies on inclusion for visually impaired inspires blind student to attend BU Navigating life as a first-year college student is hard enough — a new city, new classmates, new roommates, etc. Now imagine what that’s like for someone who physically can’t see. But that hasn’t deterred San Antonio native Noah Cook. At three months old, Cook was diagnosed with glaucoma, a condition where the fluid in the … Apr 27 2022 Q&A: Baylor Theatre Production of "Moon Man Walk" "Moon Man Walk," the final Baylor Theatre production of the year, shares a remarkable story of family and identity amidst loss and features an all-Black cast. Learn more about the play with director Sam Henderson. Apr 26 2022 Record-setting 13 Fulbright recipients top list of student scholar honors for 2022 — so far Three years ago, Baylor set a school record when seven Bears earned prestigious Fulbright scholarships — part of the nation’s flagship program for international graduate study and education. This year, Baylor students are blowing that record out of the water. An incredible 13 BU students have already been named Fulbright recipients for 2022 — a number … Apr 25 2022 How friendship between Baylor profs leads to incredible opportunities for BU students Baylor is large enough to offer top-notch academics and championship-level athletics — but small enough that you still see your friends when walking across campus. That goes for both BU students and faculty. Baylor’s “not too big, not too small” atmosphere allows interdisciplinary friendships to grow among the faculty — and students reap the benefits. … Apr 25 2022 Baylor doctoral chemistry student recognized by the National Science Foundation for her research WACO, Texas (April 25, 2022) - Jessica Conforti, a doctoral student in analytical chemistry at Baylor University, has received an honorable mention award from the National Science Foundation for her research activity. Apr 22 2022 Baylor graduate programs fare well in latest U.S. News rankings Every year, U.S. News unveils its annual ranking of American colleges and universities to the world. Last fall, Baylor came in at No. 75 in the nation — among the top 20% of national universities — and made the outlet’s short list of best schools for both undergraduate teaching and undergraduate research opportunities. (Baylor was … Apr 20 2022 Honoring some familiar Baylor faces retiring this year Every spring, the Baylor Family bids happy retirement to professors and staff who have dedicated their professional lives to the university and its students. It’s always a bittersweet mix — sadness in seeing them go, happiness for a well-deserved next step — but we wish them all well in the next phase of their lives. … Apr 15 2022 Before he was a Comedy Central & Netflix star, Jeff Dunham was a Baylor Bear With his sold-out performances regularly airing on Comedy Central and Netflix (and becoming best-sellers on DVD), ventriloquist-comedian Jeff Dunham (BA ’86) regularly ranks among the nation’s most successful comedians. That success likely comes as no surprise to his Baylor classmates, who saw his star beginning to rise back when he was on campus, more than 30 … Apr 14 2022 How a Baylor history class saved a BU student’s life When Sarah Kraut sat down in her first class as a Baylor freshman — World History 1305 — she didn’t know she’d leave that semester with a new best friend. She also didn’t know that very friend would be the one to save her life. But that’s exactly what happened. When she was 14, Sarah was … Apr 13 2022 Baylor, Waco, Discovery & Lowell Observatory partner to host 2024 solar eclipse event Where will you be on April 8, 2024? It’s time to make your plans, because there’s a total solar eclipse happening on that date — and Waco will be one of the best spots in the nation to view it! In preparation for this incredible opportunity, Baylor and the City of Waco are partnering with the … Apr 8 2022 Meet the Baylor professor whose invention makes tiny reactions visible How big is a nanometer? To envision something so small, envision the width of a human hair. Now divide the tip of that hair by 100,000. Now, you’re in the ballpark. Why does Dr. Zhenrong Zhang work so hard to make chemical reactions at the nanoscale visible? Because the reactions that take place at the … Apr 7 2022 Baylor Researchers Contribute to CDF Collaboration at Fermilab on the Most Precise Ever Measurement of W Boson Mass that Tests the Standard Model of Particle Physics WACO, Texas (April 7, 2022) – After 10 years of careful analysis and scrutiny, scientists of the CDF collaboration at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory – including Baylor University researchers with the Experimental High Energy Physics (HEP) group – announced today that they have achieved the most precise measurement to date of the mass of the W boson, one of nature’s force-carrying particles. Mar 18 2022 Dorothy Scarborough: Early journalism prof, trailblazing author, and Baylor Bear Students walking between Old Main and Burleson Hall daily pass through a circular brick area known as Folmar Pavilion, which contains memorials to several Baylor legends of the past. Among them is Dr. Dorothy Scarborough (BA 1896, MA 1899), a remarkable woman who, despite the headwinds women faced a century ago, blazed trails in education, … Mar 17 2022 Baylor Students' Japanese Language Rap Video Wins International Award WACO, Texas (March 17, 2022) - A Japanese language rap video written and performed by Baylor Modern Languages and Cultures students received an Award of Excellence in the Japanese Rap Competition, sponsored by the Japan Foundation. Mar 10 2022 Space Force Major now uses lessons he learned at Baylor as an Air Force instructor Since graduating from Baylor in 2009, Jamil Brown (BA ’09) has already worn a lot of hats: U.S. Space Force Major, political science instructor at the U.S. Air Force Academy, fellow at the Institute for Future Conflict, space operations officer, Air Force Weapons School instructor, and more. At the Air Force Academy, Brown teaches international … Mar 4 2022 Waco’s first licensed female physician? A three-time Baylor grad, Dr. Hallie Earle In 2013, Baylor Regents approved “Hallie Earle Hall” as the name for the southern part of what would debut that fall as East Village. Since then, thousands of Bears have lived in the building — but to many, “Earle” is still a new name in Baylor history. So let’s answer the question: Who was Hallie … Feb 22 2022 Baylor Professor is an Inaugural Winner of National Philosophy Prize WACO, Texas (Feb. 22, 2022) – Dr. Charity Anderson, associate professor of philosophy in the College of Arts & Sciences, is one of the inaugural winners of the Alvin Plantinga Prize from the American Philosophical Association. Feb 16 2022 Baylor Historian Receives Grant to Research Important American Religious Controversy WACO, Texas (Feb. 16, 2022) – A $40,000 grant from the Louisville Institute’s Sabbatical Grant for Researchers program will allow Dr. Andrea L. Turpin to research a book project titled “A Debate of Their Own: Women in the Fundamentalist-Modernist Controversy.” Feb 7 2022 Baylor Researchers Receive $2.7 Million Grant from John Templeton Foundation to Study Virtue Formation Across Higher Education Contexts WACO, Texas (Feb. 7, 2022) – Baylor University researchers will examine virtue formation in higher education moral communities, both secular and faith-based, with a $2.7 million grant from the John Templeton Foundation. Jan 27 2022 Baylor Honors North Carolina State University Distinguished Professor with $250,000 Robert Foster Cherry Award for Great Teaching WACO, Texas (Jan. 27, 2022) – Baylor University has named Hollylynne S. Lee, Ph.D., Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Statistics Education at North Carolina State University, as the 2022 recipient of the Robert Foster Cherry Award for Great Teaching. Jan 20 2022 Baylor Senior Chemistry Major Wins Prestigious Churchill Scholarship WACO, Texas (Jan. 20, 2022) – Baylor University senior chemistry major Kate Rojales of Milton, Georgia, is among 18 recipients of the prestigious Churchill Scholarship in mathematics, science and engineering, announced by the Winston Churchill Foundation of the United States. Rojales, who conducts research as an undergraduate in inorganic chemistry, is the second Churchill Scholar in just two years of the University being a participating institution in the program. Are you looking for more News? Archives About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students College of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences One Bear Place #97344 Waco, TX 76798-7344 (254) 710-3361 Facebook Twitter Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About A Message from the Dean History of the College Academic Departments Arts & Sciences News Arts & Sciences Magazine A & S Magazine Archives A & S Magazine - Spring 2020 A & S Magazine - Fall 2020 A & S Magazine - Spring 2019 A & S Magazine - Fall 2019 A & S Magazine - Spring 2018 A & S Magazine - Fall 2018 A & S Magazine - Spring 2017 A & S Magazine - Fall 2017 A & S Magazine - Spring 2016 A & S Magazine - Fall 2016 A & S Magazine - Spring 2015 A & S Magazine - Fall 2015 A & S Magazine - Spring 2014 A & S Magazine - Fall 2014 A & S Magazine - Spring 2013 A & S Magazine - Fall 2013 Arts & Sciences Quick Facts Arts & Sciences Vision Board of Advocates Dean's Office Contacts James Vardaman Endowed Professorship Majors in Arts & Sciences Prominent Alumni Search Arts & Sciences Strategic Plan Introduction Pillar 1 - The Christian Educational Environment Pillar 2 - Transformational Undergraduate Education Pillar 3 - Research Pillar 4 - Human Performance in the Arts Pillar 5 - Fostering Diversity, Inclusion and Equity Signature Academic Initiatives Health Materials Science Human Flourishing, Leadership and Ethics Baylor in Latin America Data Sciences Financial Model Appendix Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion DEI in the Curriculum DEI in Faculty & Staff DEI in Research Student Support for DEI Opportunities for DEI Engagement Upcoming Events Arts & Sciences Committees A&S Curriculum Committee A&S Core Curriculum Advisory Committee Creative Arts Experience Committee A&S Faculty Award Nominations Committee Students Attendance Policy Dean's Office Contacts Forms for Current Students Graduation Application Graduation and Commencement BearWeb Degree Audit Graduation Application University Commencement Majors in Arts & Sciences Advisement in Arts & Sciences Changing Your Major or Minor List of Majors in Arts & Sciences Planning for Your Major Prehealth Programs Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum Office of Engaged Learning Registering for Classes Prospective Students Special Academic Programs Scholarships (National and International) Student Life and Activities Calendar Campus Activities Campus Dining Campus Map Counseling Center Lariat Newspaper McLane Student Life Center (SLC) Title IX Office Transfer Credit Various Additional Academic Resources Wintermester Core Curriculum Health Education Baylor Prehealth Programs Baylor2 Medical Track Environmental Health Science Hillis Scholars Program Medical Humanities Science and Health Living & Learning Center Science Research Fellows Tropical Medicine Faculty & Staff Arts & Sciences Core Curriculum General Information Academic Departments and Programs Academic Centers and Institutes Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Editorships Arts & Sciences Committees Academic Resources Arts & Sciences Technology Center College Retention Goals and Plans Digital Measures Employment in Arts & Sciences Faculty Handbook Faculty Senate Staff Council Tenure Policy Online Teaching Resources Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Career Development Academy for Teaching and Learning Faculty Career Development Grand Challenge (Global Health) Vice Provost for Research Alumni & Parents Alumni and Friends Parents and Families Give