Utility Bar Please note: The service lab will be closed May 30 to June 3. Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Header Widget Area Search form. Search Form Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute Menu Grape & Wine Enology Viticulture Publications Industry Educational Resources Industry Overview Midwest Contacts Laboratory About the Laboratory Research Events Library About Us Contact Us Submit a Sample Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute Creating Connections and Furthering Research in Enology and Viticulture The Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute provides resources, conducts research, and connects grape growers and winemakers to valuable information about enology and viticulture in Iowa and throughout the Midwest. In order to serve the Midwest wine and grape industry, we offer laboratory services and education and outreach programming through publications, workshops, seminars, training, and direct communication. Learn More About Us Enology Our research into the science of winemaking, also known as enology, allows winemakers to improve their wine quality and make educated decisions during wine production. The Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute provides education to local winemakers, from winemaking best practices to helping you find resources to meet your winery’s needs. Learn More About Enology Viticulture Local grape growers can advance their knowledge on cold-hardy grape varieties, growing practices, and more through the Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute’s viticulture resources. Find a variety of information on grape growing and vineyard management strategies or discover vineyards and wineries near you. Learn More About Viticulture About the Industry Discover the economic impact of winemaking and viticulture in the Midwest. We’ve compiled market research and industry information to help local grape growers and winemakers better understand their field of interest, including connecting them to local wine associations and membership information, enology and viticulture research, and more. Find Industry Resources Laboratory Midwest winemakers can submit wine samples to the Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute’s laboratory for chemical analysis or sensory evaluation. Whether monitoring grape ripeness, tracking basic winemaking parameters, or addressing quality concerns, our laboratory offers analytical tools to help arm winemakers with information about their wines. View our fee-for-service laboratory offerings, check out some recent research, and learn more about our laboratory. The Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute’s fee-for-service laboratory is open from 8am to 5pm Monday through Friday. Hours may vary depending on University Holidays or Winter Break. Laboratory information Institute Articles Let's Focus On… with Dr. Watrelot February 24, 2022 Read Moreabout Let's Focus On… with Dr. Watrelot Bench Trials February 22, 2022 Read Moreabout Bench Trials Oxidation is on our Radar December 16, 2021 Read Moreabout Oxidation is on our Radar What happened in 2021 in Watrelot’s lab? December 16, 2021 Read Moreabout What happened in 2021 in Watrelot’s lab? Read More Articles Upcoming Events Iowa Winemakers Roundtable- La Crosse, St. Pepin, La Crescent Jun 14 1:00 PM – 3:30 PM American Society for Enology and Viticulture-Eastern Section Jul 13 8:00 AM – 6:00 PM The International Cool Climate Wine Symposium Jul 17 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM View Events Calendar Find a Winery Near You Discover Iowa Wine Trails Stay in Touch Keep up with the Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute by following us on social media and signing up for our newsletter. If you’re interested in catching up on past issues of the newsletter, you can visit our archive of all past issues. Sign Up for Our Newsletter Iowa State University Extension and Outreach Contact Us Midwest Grape and Wine Industry Institute 2312 Food Sciences Building Ames, IA 50011-1061 Email us at wine@iastate.edu Call us at 515-294-3308 Fax us at 515-294-4362 Follow us on Facebook Follow us on YouTube Follow us on Instagram © 2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology