Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Architecture About Programs Community Engagement Faculty + Staff Alumni Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Resources News + Events Architecture Gallery Accreditation Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutube Home Department of Architecture Department of Architecture Resources Resources Department of Architecture Honor Code The Honor Code of the University of Memphis Department of Architecture states: "I will not lie, cheat, or steal nor tolerate those who do." Students must also abide fully by the policies, rules, and regulations set forth in the Department of Architecture Student Policies Manual and the applicable documents of the University of Memphis. Among these are the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Additional information may be obtained from the University of Memphis Student Accountability. New Student Orientation Visit Freshmen Orientation All incoming First Year students must attend the UofM New Student Orientation (NSO). There are special NSO sessions specifically for Architecture and Interior Architecture majors. Please check with the Orientation Office for dates and details. Parents are encouraged to attend the NSO sessions in the Department of Architecture with the students. Transfer students should consult with the Department of Architecture regarding NSO. BFA Entrance Evaluation Portfolio Visit Entrance Evaluation Guidelines & General Information All students intending to pursue the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree within the Department of Architecture must complete the Entrance Evaluation. This is in addition to the admission requirements of the University of Memphis. The Evaluation consists of an application form, a writing element, and a portfolio of representative work. Submissions are reviewed by faculty and applicants are accepted on the basis of potential in the study of architecture or interior architecture. More information is provided at the Department of Architecture New Student Orientation (see above) and in the ARCH 1120 Introduction to Architecture + Design course. Transfer students seeking advanced standing should submit a portfolio representing previously completed architecture and/or interior architecture design studio work as well as detailed professional/technical course information. The review committee will determine if the work is equivalent to comparable courses at the University of Memphis. Placement in the degree program is dependent upon the review. Even if admitted with advanced standing, the student may be required to remedy previous course deficiencies. For more information, please contact the Department of Architecture. BFA Candidacy Review Portfolio Candidacy Review Guidelines & General Information A Candidacy Review Portfolio must be submitted after completion of the BFA in Architecture and/or BFA in Interior Architecture core with a grade of C or better in all courses. This occurs at the end of the fourth semester of study. Representative work from all architecture and interior architecture core courses must be included in the Portfolio. Admission to the University of Memphis and completion of the core courses do not guarantee placement in the BFA in Architecture and/or BFA in Interior Architecture degree program. Admission is selective and is based on an evaluation of the Portfolio and course work reflecting professional standards and expectations of the Department of Architecture. After review, the candidate is notified of one of the following: (1) full acceptance into the BFA in Architecture and/or BFA in Interior Architecture degree program, (2) one semester acceptance into the program on a probationary basis, (3) recommendation to correct the deficiencies and reapply, (4) recommendation to pursue general studies courses for a year and reapply, or (5) denial of admission into the Program. Permission to enroll in any 3000-4000 level course within the Department of Architecture is based upon this review. Consultation with a faculty advisor is strongly recommended before or during preparation of the Candidacy Review Portfolio. Department of Architecture Studio Culture Policy Studio Culture Policy The Department of Architecture focuses on fostering a studio environment that provides high quality educational experiences while pursuing new knowledge through research, artistic expression, and interdisciplinary and engaged scholarship. By creating and maintaining an environment that is both positive and respectful, the creative process is much more likely to emerge and succeed. The Studio Culture Policy was developed by the University of Memphis Chapter of the American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS) in partnership with the faculty of the Department of Architecture. It is reviewed and updated periodically. Scholarships Architecture Scholarships Several scholarships are available to architecture and interior architecture students through the Department of Architecture. These are: Professor Sherry Bryan-Hagge Endowed Scholarship Looney Ricks Kiss Architects Endowed Scholarship Van Walton Memorial Scholarship CSI Memphis Dempsie Morrison, Jr. Memorial Scholarship American Institute of Architects Memphis Chapter Scholarship American Institute of Architects Chattanooga Chapter Scholarship Tennessee Architecture Foundation Scholarship Department of Architecture Merit Scholarship James Weaver Memorial Endowed Scholarship In addition, the University of Memphis and the College of Communication and Fine Arts offer academic and other scholarships at various levels in a number of different categories. Awards and Special Recognition The Department of Architecture offers several special awards either through the Department or in partnership with professional and academic organizations. These are: American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Medal American Institute of Architects Henry Adams Certificate Alpha Rho Chi Bronze Medal Architectural Research Centers Consortium (ARCC) Jonathan King Student Medal Tau Sigma Delta National Architecture Honor Society Bronze Medal Department of Architecture Graduate Achievement Award Department of Architecture Creative Achievement Award (undergraduate) Department of Architecture Academic Achievement Award (undergraduate) Student Organizations The Department of Architecture is home to four registered student organizations. These are the American Institute of Architecture Students (AIAS), the Construction Specifications Institute Student Affiliate (CSI-S), the International Interior Design Association Campus Center (IIDA-CC), and the National Organization of Minority Architecture Students (NOMAS). The Department also has a chapter of Tau Sigma Delta (TSD), the national architecture and design honor society. These organizations sponsor various events throughout the academic year including workshops, special lectures, and site visits to architecture offices and built and under construction projects. They offer an opportunity to meet other students and practicing professionals through participation in professional, educational, and social activities. Membership in AIAS, CSI-S, IIDA-CC, and NOMAS is open to any student in architecture or interior architecture. Students may join at any time. Membership in TSD is based upon academic excellence demonstrated by students who have completed at least five semesters in architecture and/or interior architecture. Advising All architecture and interior architecture students must meet with a Department of Architecture advisor prior to being permitted to enroll in courses offered by the Department. In addition to general advising sessions, students may schedule an appointment to meet individually with an advisor. Professor Sherry Bryan, winner of the University of Memphis Distinguished Advisor Award for Faculty, serves as advising coordinator for the Department of Architecture. Professor Jennifer Barker serves as academic advisor to First Year students. Professional Registration Becoming a Registered Architect Architect Registration Exam (ARE) Pass Rates Becoming an Interior Designer Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.