Community Language Program Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to secondary navigation Skip to breadcrumb Community Language Program Teachers College, Columbia University Secondary Navigation Main Home About Us IRLP CLP Courses Registration Mailing List FAQ TC Community Language Program Welcome to the Community Language Program (CLP) UPDATE (April, 2022) This summer, we will offer even more in-person courses and also keep a couple courses online. CLP students who take in-person classes in summer 2022 need to show proof of being fully vaccinated for COVID (including booster shot(s) if eligible) before they can attend Day 1 of class. Students who attended in-person fall 2021 and/or spring 2022 classes must show vaccination records again. We will send further details to students registered for in-person classes closer to the summer semester. Learn More CLP Mission Statement Provide MA students in TESOL with the opportunity to practice teaching English as a Second Language (ESL) as part of their required MA TESOL curriculum. Offer English and foreign language instruction to adult learners of diverse nationalities at Teachers College, Columbia University, and surrounding New York communities. Serve as a linguistic research laboratory for AL/TESOL students and faculty. Provide AL/TESOL students with opportunities to gain hands-on experience in other areas of language education, such as language program development and administration, curriculum design and review, assessment, and teacher supervision. Click here to Register for Summer 2022 classes! Upcoming Semester Information Click here to learn about our upcoming semesters! Student Spotlight Carousel I am really grateful to CLP because thanks to their English courses I attended, now I am able to speak and understand English. The classes are well organized and the method of teaching very effective. Moreover, it is really exciting to have young students as teachers. They are so committed, engaged, and supportive that it is a real pleasure to learn English with them. Cristina, Italy I was very happy to study under my instructors, who made full use of the latest study materials such as videos and articles and encouraged me to incorporate newly learned English expressions into daily conversations and debates as much as possible. Also, through a lot of collaborative activities, I could develop a strong learning community with my classmates and make happy and warm memories. Hitomi, Japan I loved having this chance to learn English in an easy way. All the resources prepared by the teachers were nice and useful for me. They always encourage you to keep going even if you are not doing so well. The best way to improve my English skills is to practice with everyone. The teachers know how to manage the classes appropriately, with fun moments at the same time you are learning. Esther, Spain I am a student, and I need to improve my English skills to adapt to school life. CLP is a good opportunity for me to meet excellent teachers and meet students who have different backgrounds. So far, I believe that one of the most exciting things about CLP is its interactivity. In every class, I can communicate a lot with teachers and students, and we build a nice relationship with each other. Sam, China The teachers were great, and I really appreciate their work. I’ve benefited from their teaching because they provided me with a lot of English practice to prepare me for the next level of my future career. It was also very helpful to take this course from my hometown. I truly enjoyed meeting people from different places of the world. Raghad, Saudi Arabia I am a PhD candidate and I need to improve my English skills. I have had previous experience at the CLP and I am very proud and confident about my progress here. My favorite thing about classes is enjoying the infrastructure of a classroom and having the full attention from my teachers. Georgia, Brazil Currently I'm living in NYC and I need to improve my level of English for my personal and academic development. What I really like about CLP is to learn English with people from different countries and cultures! Zuleima, Mexico Our Courses English as a Second Language Learn More ESL Feature Card Image International Researchers Language Program Learn More IRLP Feature Card Image Foreign Languages Learn More Foreign Language Feature Card Image Summer A 2022 Live ESL Lessons Learn More Contact Community Language Program Community Language Program Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th St. * Horace Mann Building, Room 46E (basement) * New York, NY 10027 Tel: (212) 678-3097 Email: clp@tc.columbia.edu Follow Us on Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Copyright © 2022 • All Rights Reserved • Privacy Notice Back to skip to quick links