Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Marketing Research and Insights MS You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Marketing Research and Insights MS Apply Events Request More Info Marketing Research and Insights MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights Refine your strategic approach or change careers with a Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. Become an integral part of the evolution of companies and brands seeking to stay ahead of the competition and remain relevant to core business and consumer markets. Combine qualitative and quantitative information about customers, companies and competitors in order to generate actionable market insights and analyses. Enhance your ability to manage corporate brands and product lines, developing and managing implementation of comprehensive strategies around messaging, promotional planning and monitoring metrics. Resolve complex strategic and tactical challenges by applying a range of advanced skills and techniques, including data analysis and market research. Learn the intricacies of new product management and how to launch successful team leadership. This full- or part-time degree program provides industry-level expertise through traditional classroom instruction from renowned faculty and a culminating capstone experience where you will work to resolve a live firm’s problem in the marketplace or assist in strategy development for real-world clients. The Marketing Research and Insights MS can be completed either full time in three semesters or part time in 2.5 years. Most classes are offered in-person at Temple University Center City, so students have connections to leading organizations in the area. The Marketing Research and Insights MS prepares graduates for career advancement in a variety of different sectors including healthcare, computer and information technology, government and financial services. Learn more about career opportunities for Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights students. Request Information Learn more about the Marketing Research and Insights MS program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Classes & Curriculum Regardless of concentration, all graduate students pursuing the 30-credit Marketing Research and Insights MS degree program must take core courses including Advertising Research and Strategy; Consumer and Buyer Behavior; Marketing Management and Strategy; Marketing Research: Techniques and Application; and Marketing Strategy. Other courses vary based on your chosen concentration. See courses for each concentration. Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights vs. Master of Business Administration The marketing industry has undergone drastic changes in recent years, with new technologies leading to a need for employees with new skills, creating opportunity for trained professionals in the field. The Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights is structured to allow students to acquire advanced skills and techniques they can immediately apply to solve complex strategic and tactical problems relating to customers and competition in the workplace. In contrast, Fox MBA programs are driven by core business competencies and are offered in a variety of online and in-person formats. Offering concentrations in a number of fields, they tend to provide a broader, more wide-ranging graduate experience as opposed to the more specialized training of the Master of Science in Marketing Research and Insights. Related Graduate Degrees Business Analytics MS Digital Marketing MS Faculty Highlights Fox Marketing MS Faculty See Marketing MS faculty highlights. Faculty Highlights A link to Human Resource Management MS faculty profiles. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Science offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,142.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,142.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. See additional fees and costs associated with the Marketing Research and Insights MS program. Our Advisors Advisors offer support and assist with a variety of administrative tasks, such as selecting your class schedule. The advisor for the Marketing Research and Insights MS program is Sheri Lambert, assistant professor of practice in the Marketing Department. Email: tuh19307@temple.edu Program Contact Rachel Brown is the assistant director of MBA and MS degree programs. Phone: 215-204-5766 Email: rachelbrown@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-MRA-MS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Marketing Research and Insights MS Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info