Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Students & Parents Home Students & Parents FAQ Are face coverings or masks required on campus? The University has instituted a temporary mask mandate from January 14, 2022 to Jan 31, 2022. Are masks required on BC buses? Yes. Masks are mandatory for all individuals on public and private transportation systems (including rideshares, livery, taxi, ferries, MBTA, Commuter Rail and transportation stations). Am I required to receive a COVID-19 booster? Yes. In order to safeguard the health of the BC community, all students, faculty, and staff must obtain a COVID-19 Booster and upload their COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card by February 9, 2022. How do I upload my vaccination card to BC Health Services? All undergraduate and graduate/professional students who plan to be on campus this academic year are required to upload a copy of their vaccination card to their patient record in the Agora Portal under Health Services. To submit the vaccination card and dates through the Health Services Portal, please follow the steps below: Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Agora Health Services Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES. Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the appropriate vaccine name (Janssen, Moderna, Pfizer) in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading and hit the UPLOAD button. After uploading the picture, select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Health Services portal. Choose via the “required” drop down the vaccination name, and record the vaccination dates. Click SUBMIT to save. Am I required to be tested for COVID-19 before I arrive on campus? Yes. In addition to pre-arrival student COVID-19 testing, the University will require that all students, faculty, and staff who plan to participate in activities on campus during the spring semester be tested for COVID-19 prior to January 18. Faculty and staff should test between Monday, January 10, and Friday, January 14 (see schedule below). Testing for students who reside on campus will occur during their move-in January 15-17, as scheduled through Residential Life. Undergraduates who live off campus and graduate/professional students should test as soon as they return to the area and before engaging in on-campus activities, preferably during the January 10-14 period. All COVID-19 tests will take place in the Margot Connell Recreation Center’s MAC Courts during the following times: Monday, January 10 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Tuesday, January 11 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Wednesday, January 12 | 6:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Thursday, January 13 | 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. Friday, January 14 | 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday, January 15 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Sunday, January 16 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Monday, January 17 | 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. What will the consequences be if a student is not vaccinated, or fails to upload proof of vaccination by Feb 9? Students who are not in compliance with the University’s vaccination and testing policies will face sanctions from the Office of Student Conduct. Visit bc.edu/covid-policies for details. Who should I contact with vaccination-related questions? If you have any COVID-19 testing or vaccination-related questions, please feel free to contact University Health Services at covidtesting@bc.edu Are students required to utilize the BC Check App this year? Yes. Given the possibility of “breakthrough” COVID-19 cases, faculty, staff, and students should once again monitor their health on a daily basis utilizing the BC Check app (bc.edu/check), which may be required for access to certain venues on campus. During the daily self-check, faculty, staff, and students who indicate that they have no symptoms will receive a green “OK” notice on their smartphone. Anyone who indicates symptoms will be instructed not to travel to campus; students living on and off campus will be directed to phone University Health Services for consultation regarding next steps. What protocol has the University established for international or domestic students who are not yet fully vaccinated? The University has set the following health safety protocols and conditions for those students who have not yet achieved full vaccination status: Students who are not yet fully vaccinated will be required to test regularly for COVID-19 through Boston College's testing program. These students will receive an e-mail notification for each required test. The frequency of testing may be adjusted depending on positivity rates and other COVID-19-related factors. Until students are fully vaccinated, they are required to wear a mask outdoors and while in all campus buildings, including in classrooms, laboratories, dining halls, Connell Recreation Center, and residence halls/University housing (including residence hall rooms). These students may remove their mask when eating/drinking and sleeping in their residence hall room. Pending full vaccination status and per state and local departments of health guidelines, if students who are not fully vaccinated test positive for COVID-19, they will be required to isolate for a minimum of 10 days, in accordance with BC’s isolation protocols. Pending full vaccination status and per state and local departments of health guidelines, if students are identified as a close contact of an individual who tests positive for COVID-19, they will be required to quarantine for 10 days. In such a case, students will be required to follow BC’s quarantine protocols, including COVID-19 testing during this period. Students are expected to perform their daily self-health check utilizing the BC Check app (bc.edu/check), which may be required for access to certain venues on campus. If students are are experiencing any COVID-19 symptoms, they must not leave their room or come to campus, and should immediately contact University Health Services. Once students are fully vaccinated, they should alert University Health Services, and upload their vaccination card. What are the consequences if a student does not show up for mandatory COVID surveillance testing? Students who are not in compliance with the University’s surveillance testing protocols will face multiple account holds including Canvas, and possible Summary Suspension from campus. Students will be referred to the Office of Student Conduct and may be issued sanctions including Housing Suspension and University Suspension. Visit bc.edu/covid-policies for details. What would I do if I tested positive for COVID over the break? If you tested positive with a PCR test: Please upload a copy of those test results to your patient record in Health Services. Once you do, you should email UHS at covidtesting@bc.edu and inform them of the uploaded test. They will verify the results and exempt you from testing for 90 days from your test date. If you tested positive with an antigen test via a LAB: Please upload a copy of the test results from the lab to your patient record in Health Services. Follow the instructions above to let UHS staff know that it is uploaded. They will review the results and let you know if this test is sufficient or if you will need a PCR test for documentation purposes. They will email you with that information, so please keep an eye out for their instructions. If you tested positive with a rapid, at-home antigen test: We cannot use that result to determine your status. It is important that you get a PCR test to verify your status, as soon as possible. Once you have those results, please follow the above instructions if the results are positive. If the results are negative, then you should use those results as your PCR test prior to returning and then test upon return to campus. Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College