COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News May 25, 2022W. Frank Barton School of BusinessstudentsTechnologyWSU Foundation Woolseys give $1.3 million to fulfill vision for Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall By WSU Foundation The Woolseys have made an additional gift from their trust of $1.3 million to Wayne and Kay Woolsey Hall at Wichita State University. A portion of the gift will be used to create the Kay Woolsey Garden, with the remainder going toward the Woolsey Hall Technology Fund. The garden is a memorial for Kay, who passed away in 2019, and will be located on the south lawn of the building. It will provide an eye-catching expanse of color outside the windows of Woolsey Hall, while lying directly in the line of sight from the Promise Bridge. “Kay was totally involved with the business, and she worked endless hours,” said Scott Fraizer, president of Woolsey Cos. “But one of the things she made sure of was that there were fresh flowers every month in the entrance – she just loved flowers. I think this is a wonderful tribute to both what she loved and all she did for the company.” “There is so much now that goes into degrees – like understanding security and using personal equipment and working from home. The technology fund will help students stay on top of that,” said Marc Woolsey, Wayne and Kay’s son. Woolsey Hall, the new home for WSU’s W. Frank Barton School of Business, will open this summer. W. Frank Barton School of Business The W. Frank Barton School of Business is home to some of the best programs, brightest minds and biggest opportunities in Kansas. From the largest selection of AACSB-accredited programs in the state to the limitless opportunities for applied learning in Kansas' business hub, Barton School students have everything they need for career success. Learn more about Wichita State's business school Read more stories like this Related Stories Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Anllir Ramirez-Tenorio Access and Affordability Beyond the Classroom: Keegan Staats Talent Pipeline Beyond the Classroom: Alia Michaelis computer science Student-created parking app concept wins 2022 Koch Innovation Challenge 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©