Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Legal Studies Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Legal Studies Major Apply Visit Request More Info Legal Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Business Administration in Legal Studies The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Legal Studies from Temple University's Fox School of Business introduces the economic, political and sociological principles of law as they apply to business. The degree creates a foundation for students planning to pursue law professionally as well as those intending to pursue a business career where a legal background would be valuable. This cross-disciplinary program introduces students to those areas where business and law meet, such as business ownership, financial planning, healthcare, human relations, marketing, risk management and more. Legal Studies BBA students are exposed to actual court cases, trial simulations and other hands-on experiences that help shape the analytical, communication, problem-solving and reasoning skills they will take with them into law school and their professional careers. Additionally, Fox’s outstanding faculty and adjunct professors from government agencies, private and corporate law firms, and federal and state judiciary offer real-world examples of how business and law relate to one another. Connections with local firms and governing entities provide students with unique internship opportunities to supplement coursework. In the third and fourth year of the 124-credit program, students select electives from areas of law specialization including corporate governance, entertainment, environmental, real estate, sports and technology. Students will then complete a final capstone project in an area of their choosing. Other academic options for Legal Studies Major include an accelerated three-year BBA track as well as an online BBA program. Accelerated 3-year BBA Motivated students can accelerate their BBA program to finish in three years. To find out more about completing your degree on an accelerated timeline, contact your advisor. Online BBA Program The Bachelor of Business Administration in Legal Studies is available as an Online BBA degree program designed for new and continuing students. Learn more about the online program. Classes & Curriculum The 124-credit BBA in Legal Studies program combines legal studies with foundational business principles, and includes core required courses, electives and a capstone project to be taken in the final semester. Coursework may include the following. Business Society and Ethics Global Business Policies Information Systems in Organizations Legal Environment of Business Macroeconomic Principles Operations Management Learn more about Legal Studies Major courses. Related Graduate Degrees Business Administration MBA Financial Analysis and Quantitative Risk Management MS Health Administration MHA Information Technology Auditing and Cyber Security MS Juris Doctor (JD)* Law LLM* Related Graduate Certificates Entrepreneurship and Technology Commercialization Healthcare Innovation Management Innovation Strategy *Beasley School of Law Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Business Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $21,144.00 per year Out-of-state: $38,544.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for Undergraduate Advising in the Fox School of Business is dedicated to helping students navigate their academics and make informed decisions about their career paths. See a full list of undergraduate academic advisors. Peer Advising The Center for Undergraduate Advising also offers peer advising at the Main Campus location. Undergraduate peer advisors offer the perspective of an upper-level student and assist by sharing their knowledge and personal tips for academic success. Program Contact For more information about your degree program, contact the faculty below. Kate Markowitz is the director of enrollment management for undergraduate students. Phone: 215-204-4892 Email: kmrick@temple.edu Tom Carney is the assistant director of undergraduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-5424 Email: tom.carney@temple.edu Claudia Bereshnyi is the assistant director of transfer, veteran and online BBA recruitment and the contact for both incoming transfer students and those interested in an online BBA. Phone: 215-204-4100 Email: claudia@temple.edu Drew Hashimura is the coordinator of enrollment management. Phone: 215-204-2070 Email: ahashimura@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and build the skills you’ll need in your professional career. Enhance your academic experience by participating in a club or organization related to your major or interests. Phi Alpha Delta is the world’s largest legal fraternity. Nearly 1 in 6 attorneys in the United States is a member of the organization that is comprised of law students, pre-law students, practicing attorneys, legal educators, leading jurists and prominent elected officials. Members enjoy study support, LSAT preparation, networking opportunities and other professional events. Explore the full list of Fox School of Business student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Broaden your understanding of global economies and business practices by taking advantage of the various study abroad options and opportunities for learning beyond Temple’s Main Campus in Philadelphia through Global Immersion Programs. Temple administers several programs around the world, including campus sites in Rome, Japan and Spain, faculty-led summer programs and exchange programs in Europe and Asia. Interested students may also participate in approved programs organized by study abroad organizations or other U.S. universities, or apply directly to an accredited institution overseas. Temple’s Education Abroad office provides information on approved programs, and advisors can work with you to determine which program might provide the best fit. Learn more about study away options. Temple Exchange Programs Through reciprocal exchange agreements with the following universities, Temple students can exchange places with students for a semester or academic year. Some programs require sufficient proficiency in the host country language to participate. China: Hong Kong Baptist University Korea: Ewha Womans University, Yonsei University, Sogang University Taiwan: National Taiwan University Learn more about Temple exchange programs (PDF). Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-LGLS-BBA Additional Program Information Available as a minor. School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Legal Studies Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info