Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Site Navigation By the Numbers Mission & Values People Our History Accreditation Strategic Plan Wellness Podcasts Service & Community Engagement Community Advisory Board Community Partners Workforce Development SPH Policies and Guidelines Events RI Life Index The School of Public Health partners with Blue Cross Blue Shield Rhode Island to create the RI Life Index, an annual survey of Rhode Islanders’ perceptions of the social determinants of health and well-being. Learn more about the Life Index Community Partnership Long-standing collaborations with local organizations, like the RI Free Clinic, expand research, training, and service opportunities for the School community. Watch now Prevent Overdose RI A collaboration between state government and the School of Public Health, PreventOverdoseRI.org provides RI overdose data and resources for the recovery community. Learn more Open Door Health An initiative of the RI Public Health Institute, Open Door Health provides primary and sexual health care services to LGBTQ+ Rhode Islanders. Learn more Service & Community Engagement The Office of Community Engagement in the School of Public Health provides planning and guidance for community engagement and works with community partners to identify issues most important in advancing the well-being of our community. We oversee and enhance collaborations between the community and School of Public Health students, faculty, and staff and work to build new relationships with community stakeholders. We are also the primary liaison to the School’s Community Advisory Board. Please reach out to me with your ideas for building even stronger ties between the Brown School of Public Health and the greater Providence community. Kim Gans, PhD, MPH Adjunct Professor of Behavioral and Social Sciences Director of Community Engagement, School of Public Health [email protected] 401-863-6564 Community Partners Our local partnerships expand our policy reach and our students’ learning opportunities. Our Community Partners Service Opportunities Search our listing of volunteer and internship opportunities for students and alumni. (Brown login required) Browse opportunities Community Advisory Board The School’s CAB provides a forum for dialogue between the RI public health community and SPH leadership and faculty. Meet the board Workforce Development SPH Centers and School partners create opportunities for continued public health education Workforce Development Resources for the Public Family Resources The Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute provides guides to local physicians and trusted sources of information on child health. Hassenfeld Institute Mindfulness The Mindfulness Center at Brown offers free daily mindfulness sessions open to the public to help ease anxiety and build community. Mindfulness Center Ending the overdose crisis Timely data and helpful resources on overdose. Where to get naloxone, how to get into treatment and find events. Prevent Overdose RI Upcoming Events Most events held by the School of Public Health are free and open to the public. Join Us! Service at Brown The Swearer Center connects Brown students, faculty, and community partners through community engagement, engaged scholarship, and social innovation. Swearer Center School of Public Health Admissions School of Public Health Admissions Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top