Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT Have you ever wondered why it gets easier to balance a bicycle the faster you are traveling? Or why there are dimples on a golf ball? Or whether harvesting wind energy changes the environmental balance? If the answer is "yes," then perhaps you should consider majoring in mechanical engineering. Here, your curiosity and inventiveness will soar as you learn to look deeper into the behavior, design and production of things we use every day. With a Bachelor of Science in mechanical engineering from Clemson, you will be able to apply engineering analysis and design to matters that affect our everyday lives such as manufacturing; energy conversion and conservation; machines; materials; health; and vehicles for air, sea and land transportation. Because science and technology are ever changing, our program focuses on fundamental principles as well as modern tools. You will develop a foundation on which to embark on a path of lifelong learning as you practice mechanical engineering; earn advanced degrees; or go on to practice law, business or medicine. FAST FACTS The demand for mechanical engineers is very high, and interest in our program reflects that trend. Our faculty members are internationally recognized in education and research. More than 70 percent of our students have participated in a co-op and/or internship, according to our latest senior exit survey. Our faculty has degrees from top institutions worldwide and significant experience in industry or national labs. Many are fellows in professional engineering societies. With our B.S./M.S. program, you can earn up to a semester's credit toward a graduate degree while simultaneously satisfying requirements for your undergraduate degree. All students planning to choose a degree in an engineering discipline will apply to Clemson as a general engineering major. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY Freshmen who major in engineering at Clemson are initially admitted into our general engineering program, where you will learn math and science fundamentals, problem solving methods and modern analytical tools, all of which are common to all engineering disciplines. During freshman year, you will make a decision as to which discipline you will enter. Mechanical engineering has a minimum GPR requirement for admission. Studying mechanical engineering prepares you in the basic sciences and math, thermal and fluid science, and mechanical systems. As classes progress, you will develop your analytical, design and experimental abilities, which will prepare you for the challenges and questions you will face in your career. Seniors choose from our technical electives classes, providing chances to focus on your interests or obtain a broader view of many mechanical engineering topics. Seniors also collaborate with classmates to solve a real-world problem supplied by an industry partner. Research in our department encompasses experimental, analytical and computational work in the following areas: Advanced Manufacturing Bioengineering and Biomaterials Design Dynamics and Controls Energy Systems Fluid Mechanics Materials and Materials Processing Solid Mechanics Thermodynamics, Heat Transfer and Combustion Transportation Vehicles and Systems Combined Bachelor's/Master's Program: Get a jump-start on your Master of Science in mechanical engineering while completing your bachelor's. In our combined-degree program you can apply up to 12 credit hours toward your graduate degree while simultaneously satisfying your technical elective requirements for your undergraduate degree. Curriculum Mechanical Engineering, B.S. Popular Minors Business Administration Mathematical Sciences Similar Majors Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) Industrial Engineering (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM Our students are active outside the classroom through student organizations, Creative Inquiry group and independent research projects, community and University service, and study abroad opportunities. Study Abroad Engineering is an international profession with more and more companies expanding worldwide. We recognize this and offer various international opportunities ranging from summers abroad to a full-term exchange programs. Learn More » Honors Clemson's Pi Tau Sigma chapter of the mechanical engineering honor society fosters high ideals in the profession. Members stimulate and support departmental activities, promote professional welfare and develop leadership and citizenship. ASHRAE The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers works to advance heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration to serve humanity and promote a sustainable world. SAE The Society of Automotive Engineers is an international organization created to share knowledge between students and engineers. Clemson's student chapter is dedicated to promoting the advancement of designing and building of automotive vehicles. ASME The Clemson Student Chapter of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers is a volunteer organization executed by undergraduate and graduate mechanical engineering students. SME Clemson's Society of Manufacturing Engineers chapter is devoted to engaging students interested in or associated with the manufacturing field. The chapter brings in speakers, organizes plant tours and offers networking events for students. Learn More » Co-op Many of our students choose to do co-op where they spend several semesters and one summer alternating between working in industry and taking classes on campus.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Baja SAE Formula SAE PEER WISE AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Development Engineer Bosch Process Engineer Michelin Mechanical Engineer Eastman Chemical Company Second Lieutenant U.S. Air Force Engineering and Operations Management Development Program Associate BMW Manufacturing Co. RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES M.S. Mechanical Engineering Clemson University M.S. Automotive Engineering Clemson University Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering Boston University M.S. Aerospace Engineering Purdue University M.S. Motorsports Engineering Southampton University COMMON CAREER AREAS Mechanical Power Generation Internal Combustion Engines Jet Engines Steam Power Plants Rockets Energy Utilization and Conservation Thermal/Fluids Thermodynamics Environmental Control Refrigeration Instrumentation and Control Machine Sciences Mechanical Design Manufacturing and Production Robotics Operation and Maintenance Production Sales and Marketing Management Consulting Research and Development Teaching Law Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Christopher Porter CECAS Undergraduate Recruitment Director 864-656-7870 cporter@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Mechanical Engineering (B.S.) Agricultural Mechanization and Business (B.S.) Industrial Engineering (B.S.)