Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Campus & City Service & Action Service & Action At Georgetown, you’ll be part of a community that has valued social justice and service for centuries. “Contemplation in Action” is in our DNA and grounded in the Jesuit tradition of people for others. Mentor young students in DC, offer pro bono legal services, care for the sick at a clinic. You’ll find more than 100 university-sponsored service opportunities at Georgetown that engage students in addressing some of today’s most pressing issues. People for Others Community service connects you to the heart of DC, as well as to your fellow students. Find opportunities for service at the Jesuit-inspired Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service. Serve with the CSJ A Testimonial “For the rest of my life, it will always be a highlight that I helped an innocent person get exonerated and leave prison. I am so grateful to Georgetown for giving a French exchange student this incredible opportunity.” – Julie Fragonas Julie’s work with the Prisons and Justice Initiative Play Youtube Video Alternative Breaks Program (ABP) Andrew (C’16) takes you along on his trip to Hattiesburg, Mississippi, where he and fellow Georgetown students work with Habitat for Humanity. Learn about ABP Explore More Service Pre-Orientation Programs Tutor With DC Reads Service and the Law Play Youtube Video Georgetown’s Street Law Program For decades, the program has empowered DC area high schoolers through a hands-on understanding of the law. Patrick Campbell (C’92) reflects on how the Street Law program has changed the lives of thousands of young people since its inception in 1972. GULC Street Law Program 2001 Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching, and Service Opened 18 Immersion Experiences For students to choose from 115 DC Reads Tutors and Coordinators Hoyas in Service to Others More Service News McCourt Alumnus Launched Free Tax Prep Service Led by D.C. High School Students University to Congress: Pass Permanent Protection for Undocumented Students Georgetown continues support for its undocumented students by urging top Congressional leaders to pass permanent protections to relieve university communities experiencing “high anxiety and uncertainty” across the country. Campus Service and Events Commemorate MLK’s Lasting Legacy The university commemorates the 50th anniversary of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s death with a semester of events and an April 4 service featuring Georgetown’s Distinguished Artist-in Residence, Jason Moran. Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog