Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Printing Services Printing Services right arrow down arrow Services Locations & Contacts Copier & Printer Rental Poster Templates Request a Quote Resources right arrow down arrow Print Order Desk User Guide Glossary of Printing Terms Home » About UC » Printing Services Printing Services UC Printing serves University of Cincinnati, UC Health, Cincinnati State, as well as the Greater Cincinnati area. Start to finish, Printing Services offers a convenient, full-service solution for all of your print and copy needs. From smaller digital copy runs to large print projects, quality service and convenience is guaranteed. We offer a full range of services, including highest quality offset printing, copies, various types of binding and finishing, bulk mail and wide format. Need a departmental copier or bulk copy paper? We can help with those, too! Our Services Print order desk login Print Order Desk What is it? Print Order Desk is our web-based ordering system that allows users to place print orders using a simple online form allowing a variety of options from papers to finishing options that can be customized to fit your printing needs. The Order Desk also includes a Store where users can purchase many ready-to-go items, including packs and cases of paper, envelopes, and a selection of forms and other items specific to your particular institution (UC, UC Health, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital and Cincinnati State). The Print Order desk is also available to non-university individuals and businesses. More benefits: Receive order status updates Access your order history Easy reordering Getting Started University of Cincinnati, UC Health, Cincinnati Children's Hospital or Cincinnati State users register an account by submitting their contact information, and choosing a “site” for their account. Your site is your department or division. All the account numbers we have on file for the units listed are linked to the appropriate sites. When your registration is submitted, you will receive an email confirmation. Once a member of our team has reviewed your application, your account will be activated, and all the appropriate account numbers will be made available to you to use for placing orders. External clients (those who are members of the general community, and not employees of UC, UC Health, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, or Cincinnati State) should choose Credit Card/ACH as their site. When your orders are ready, you will receive an email containing a link to our online Store, where you can pay for your work by processing a credit card, or ACH transaction. First Time Users Must First Create an Account Visit the Print Order Desk Click REGISTER in the upper right corner Complete your profile Account activation generally takes one business day. When it’s complete you will receive an email notifying you that your account is ready for use. You can then log in and begin the process of placing orders. The order form for each category will enable you to provide the PDS team with all the information we need to process your orders, including paper selection, binding and finishing options, and payment method. You can also attach your print file to the order, along with any special instructions you find helpful for fully understanding your order submission. Many questions may be answered in our FAQ or User Guide. Our Glossary provides a comprehensive collection of terms and service definitions, and is a great resource to bookmark on your browser. Contact our team if you need assistance setting up your account. print order desk FAQ User Guide Glossary Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 printing.services@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Printing Services 5121 Fishwick Dr., Suite 120 Cincinnati, OH 45216 513-556-5043 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top