Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, BS Create, manage and support information for top tech companies. Program at a Glance Program Bachelor College(s) College of Engineering and Computer Science Department(s) Computer Science 4 years In State Tuition Out of State Tuition $212.28 per credit hour $748.89 per credit hour Learn more about program tuition and fees. Innovate and Transform Technologies of Tomorrow An information technology degree from UCF prepares you to drive efficiency and productivity throughout businesses — providing them with better service and value. You’ll gain an understanding about maintaining computer equipment and software, as well as the skills to help improve business processes and innovative ways to use information resources to serve customers. Courses cover how to create, manage and support information in a variety of forms, arming you with the skills necessary in today’s technically-focused workplace. Take what you learn in the classroom and apply it to real-world experiences through internships at leading tech companies, from Central Florida Research Park to downtown Orlando. This hands-on work is a great way to build your technical skills and demonstrate your communication, teamwork and leadership abilities. Information technology graduates are employed nearly everywhere, at companies of all sizes — from large companies such as L3Harris Technologies, Siemens and HD Supply, to smaller companies. They also work in government agencies, academic institutions and more. Throughout your career, there will be a number of opportunities for lifelong learning, including training and development, and involvement in professional organizations to build strong connections. Related Programs: Computer Engineering Computer Science Highlights UCF’s Collegiate Cybersecurity Competition team, [email protected], won 3 back-to-back championships in the National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition. UCF grads make up 27% of Lockheed Martin employees in Orlando. The demand for information technologists is expected to grow 15% nationwide. The median pay for information technologists with a bachelor’s degree is $93K. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Freshmen Transfers International Fall May 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall July 1 Spring November 1 Summer March 1 Fall March 1 Spring September 1 Summer January 1 Ready to get started? Apply Today Start Your Application Today Ready to get started? Take the next step to save your spot at UCF. 1 Check out your application requirements. See what freshmen and transfer students need to apply. 2 Short on time? You can start your application today and come back later to finish. Apply Today Course Overview Computer Network Concepts Take a closer look at network media, protocol, as well as current and evolving standards for local, metropolitan, wide area and wireless networks. Frontiers in Information Technology Explore research into leading-edge information technologies that have a high likelihood of impacting where the industry is headed in the next two to five years. System Administration and Maintenance Examine operating systems and applications installation, configuration and maintenance, including client-server services, content management and deployment, server administration and management, and user/group management. View All Information Technology Courses You’ll Take IT Skills You’ll Learn Demonstrate communication skills, teamwork capabilities and leadership abilities necessary for a successful career. Identify and analyze user needs and to take them into account in the selection, creation, integration, evaluation and administration of computing-based systems. Make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles when integrating security standards and best practices into IT-based systems. Career Opportunities Computer Network Operator Information Security Analyst IT Professional Network Administrator Support Technician System Administrator Web Designer News and Updates Check out more stories Colleges & Campus UCF Students Oust Top Teams at 2022 North America Collegiate Programming Contest, Advance to World Finals After beating dozens of top teams to earn seventh place, UCF will advance to the World Finals for the 11th consecutive year. Colleges & Campus 5 UCF Scholars to be Inducted into Academy of Science, Engineering and Medicine of Florida The organization’s members are top scholars and researchers from universities, public agencies, and industries statewide who are committed to addressing key issues and challenges impacting… Colleges & Campus Elite Students Coming to UCF for North America Collegiate Programming Contest UCF will host and compete against 49 other top student programming teams — including Stanford, MIT, Harvard, Caltech, UCBerkeley and Georgia Tech. Research Aerodynamics of Perching Birds Could Inform Aircraft Design A team of UCF researchers have investigated the mystery behind different bird perching maneuvers to better understand the aerodynamic forces of landing an aircraft. Degree Search College of Engineering and Computer Science programs Bachelors Information Technology (BS) University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Graduate Studies Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management × Admission Requirements None Degree Requirements "C" (2.0) or better required in all prerequisites and courses required for the major. Students should consult with a departmental advisor. A Residency Requirement consists of at least 24 semester hours of regularly scheduled 3000-5000 level courses taken from the Computer Science Department at UCF. 12 of the 24 Residency hours must be at the 4000-5000 level. Students in the Information Technology major are expected to make consistent good progress toward their degrees to remain enrolled in, or eligible for, any major in the College of Engineering & Computer Science (CECS) or the College of Optics and Photonics (COP). Therefore,any student majoring in Information Technology who repeats any UCF course and does not earn a grade of "C" (2.0) or better on the second attempt will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation does not receive a grade of "C" (2.0) or better by the third attempt in the same UCF course, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. Any student majoring in Information Technology who has accumulated 7 or more unsuccessful attempts (i.e., grades below "C" (2.0) and withdrawals) over all courses taken at UCF will be placed on Lack of Progress Probation and remain on Lack of Progress Probation as long as the student is enrolled in a CECS or COP major. If a student on Lack of Progress Probation has a tenth unsuccessful attempt over all courses taken at UCF, the student will be excluded from all CECS and COP majors. A student who is excluded from CECS and COP majors may seek readmission to a major in CECS or COP after at least one full year has passed since exclusion. Readmission is not automatic and is dependent upon a high probability of success after readmission. Any student who is readmitted to the Information Technology major will be subject to all probation conditions that applied at the time of exclusion. Degree Requirements Core Requirements: Basic Level 0 Total Credits None Core Requirements: Advanced Level 52 Total Credits Complete all of the following A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each of these courses. Core Requirements Complete all of the following Complete the following: COP3502C - Computer Science I (3) CIS3360 - Security in Computing (3) CAP3104 - Foundations of HCI (3) CGS3269 - Computer Architecture Concepts (3) CNT3004 - Computer Network Concepts (3) CIS3003 - Fundamentals of Information Technology (3) CIS4524 - Managing IT Integration (3) CNT4714 - Enterprise Computing (3) CIS4004 - Web-Based Information Technology (3) CNT4703C - Design and Implementation of Computer Communication Networks (3) COP4910 - Frontiers in Information Technology (3) PHI3626 - Advanced Ethics in Science and Technology (3) CGS3763 - Operating System Concepts (3) CNT4603 - System Administration and Maintenance (3) Earn at least 4 credits from the following course sets: arrow_drop_down PHY 2054C PHY2054C - College Physics II Studio (4) arrow_drop_down PHY 2054 and PHY 2054L PHY2054 - College Physics II (3) PHY2054L - College Physics II Laboratory (1) Support Courses Complete all of the following A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each of these courses. Complete at least 1 of the following: ENC4293 - Documentation and Project Management (3) ENC4265 - Writing for the Computer Industry (3) ENC4414 - Writing and Hypertext (3) ENC4415 - Digital Rhetorics and The Modern Dialectic (3) ENC4298 - Technical Communication for the Virtual Workplace (3) ENC4416 - Writing in Digital Environments (3) ENC4262 - International Technical Communication (3) ENC4215 - Document Design and Publication (3) Complete at least 1 of the following: ENC3241 - Writing for the Technical Professional (3) ENC3250 - Professional Writing (3) Restricted Electives 6 Total Credits Complete all of the following Earn at least 6 credits from the following types of courses: any 3000-level (or higher) courses offered by Computer Science and Information Technology programs. CGS 4941 can be used as a restricted elective one time only. A "C" (2.0) or better is required in each of these courses. Grand Total Credits: 58 University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida