Skip to site alert. Skip to content Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center (HICCC) - New York Refer a Patient Giving Locations Contact Make an Appointment Search About Us About Us Message from the Director Mission, Vision, and Guiding Principles About the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center The Irving Family Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion (DEI) Leadership Our Members Giving News Our 50th Anniversary Upcoming Programs and Events Contact Us HICCC Annual Report Explore the past year of cancer research and care at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Read the Report For Patients For Patients Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Locations What to Expect Get a Second Opinion Patient Stories Refer a Patient Keeping You Safe Video Visits Make an Appointment Our dedicated access representatives can help you make an appointment today. Make an Appointment Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types and Care Cancer Types Cancer Care Clinical Trials Cancer Types Amyloidosis Anal Cancer Bladder Cancer Brain and Spinal Tumors Breast Cancer Cervical Cancer Childhood and Adolescent Cancers Colon and Rectal Cancer Esophageal Cancer Gestational Trophoblastic Disease Head and Neck/Oral Cancers Kidney Cancer/Adrenal Cancer Leukemia Liver Cancer Lung Cancer Lymphoma Melanoma Multiple Myeloma Myelodysplastic Syndrome Ovarian Cancer Pancreatic Cancer Prostate Cancer Rare Blood Disorders Sarcoma Stomach Cancer Testicular Cancer Thyroid Cancer Uterine Cancer Vaginal Cancer Vulvar Cancer Screening and Outreach Screening and Outreach Screening and Risk Reduction Community Outreach and Engagement Screening and Risk Reduction How to Reduce the Risk of Cancer Reducing Second Cancer Risk Screening for Cancer Genetic Testing and Cancer Educational Resources Community Outreach and Engagement We work with our communities and patients to remove access barriers to cancer prevention, screening, treatment and survivorship services. Learn About Our Efforts Research Research Programs Laboratories Membership Shared Resources For Researchers Programs Cancer Genomics and Epigenomics Cancer Population Science Precision Oncology and Systems Biology Tumor Biology and Microenvironment Research Laboratories Learn about the research being pursued by members of the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center. Explore Our Research Education Education Continuing Medical Education (CME) Educational Seminar Series Trainee Associate Member Program Cancer Research Training and Education Coordination Core (CRTEC) Educational Opportunities Division of Hematology/Oncology Department of Radiation Oncology Training at HICCC We're dedicated to developing the next generation of researchers and physicians through cross-disciplinary training and fellowship programs A Comprehensive and Personalized Approach to Care A Comprehensive and Personalized Approach to Care Dedicated to Training the Next Generation of Cancer Researchers Dedicated to Training the Next Generation of Cancer Researchers We Believe Our Discoveries Here Will End Cancer Everywhere We Believe Our Discoveries Here Will End Cancer Everywhere Meet Our Experts Our team of dedicated access representatives are here to connect you with the specialists you need. Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Innovative Research Our researchers are helping to turn the discoveries we make into tomorrow's advanced treatments for our patients. Learn More About Clinical Trials Learn More About Clinical Trials Patient and Caregiver Support We treat the whole person, not just the cancer. Our support services provide care and support outside of traditional medical care. Support Resources Support Resources News Addressing Opioid Misuse in Cancer Pain Management June 1, 2022 Many situations, such as post-surgical pain, still require opioids for effective pain management. Unfortunately, any opioid prescription puts patients and their communities at risk for opioid misuse. Standing Physician Orders Failed to Improve Colony-stimulating Factors to Prevent Febrile Neutropenia Source: SWOG Cancer Research Network May 27, 2022 A study, led by Dr. Dawn Hershman, tested whether standing orders embedded in electronic medical records systems could improve prescribing practice for CSFs and lower incidence of febrile neutropenia. Topic Clinical Trials TrevisMichelle’s Story: “My Journey is My Own, But My Testimony is for All” May 20, 2022 TrevisMichelle always had a story to tell, but after being diagnosed with cervical cancer last fall the time felt more important than ever to share it. Topic 50th Anniversary Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian Source: CUIMC Newsroom May 26, 2022 The comprehensive lung cancer screening program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers at high risk for lung cancer. Topic Screening and Risk Reduction Outstanding Physician-Scientists Win Young Investigator Awards May 23, 2022 The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) and Conquer Cancer Foundation have recognized seven leading oncology trainees from Columbia Cancer with Young Investigator Awards and Merit Awards. Topic Awards and Grants View All News Patient Stories A Lifelong Battle with Disease, a Newfound Hope with Cell Therapy Two years ago, patient Jenna Strickland overcame a battle that at times she did not think she could win: non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and she did it with a revolutionary treatment known as T-cell immunotherapy. A Lifelong Battle with Disease, a Newfound Hope with Cell Therapy Featured Voice: Patti Murillo-Casa and How She Overcame a Second Health Battle Post-Cancer After Patti Murillo-Casa beat cervical cancer, she had another fight for her health - depression led to weight gain and a series of other health issues. After losing 113 pounds, Patti is a group fitness instructor specializing in senior fitness and cancer recovery fitness, sharing her story with others to inspire change. Featured Voice: Patti Murillo-Casa and How She Overcame a Second Health Battle Post-Cancer View All Patient Stories Events HICCC Distinguished Speaker Seminar Wednesday, June 8, 2022 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Event Edward P. Evans Center for Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) Seminar Wednesday, June 15, 2022 12:00 PM to 1:00 PM Venue Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, 1130 St. Nicholas Ave., New York, NY 10032 1st floor auditorium View All Events Ways to Give When you give to the HICCC, you are making a difference in the lives of cancer patients. Your support accelerates the discoveries made in our labs into the innovative cancer care of tomorrow. Donate Now Donate Now Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us For Patients Cancer Types and Care Screening and Outreach Research Education Contact Us Make an Appointment Columbia University Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center 1130 St. Nicholas Avenue 2nd Floor, Room 201 New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Back to top