Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Applied Mathematics Undergraduate Program Applied mathematics represents a quantitative liberal arts degree. The degree provides the opportunity for combining mathematical thinking with any subject for which mathematics can be productively applied. In some instances, combining applied mathematics with a particular subject can lead to a program of study that is quite similar to studying that subject itself. For example, applied mathematics with physics as an application area is quite similar to studying physics. On the other hand, there are other instances (combining applied mathematics with psychology or government) where the degree program would be quite different. At a professional level the difference between an applied mathematician and a practitioner in a given field can be very small, when the two are working on problems in that field. However, the applied mathematician's primary interest is in the general way that mathematics is applied--and as such also could use [variants of ] the same methods to study other fields. Main navigation Information For In Applied Mathematics Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Concentration Information Areas of Application AM & Economics How to Declare Who are my Advisors? Secondary Field Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Research for Course Credit (AM 91R & AM 99R) AB/SM Information Peer Concentration Advisors (PCA) Program Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Oral Qualifying Examination Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy