Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Mission & Ministry Mission & Ministry Information For: Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Ministry Menu Main Nav Campus Ministry Racial Justice Back Back Close About Overview Meet the Staff Racial Justice Pastoral Counseling Axios Center Pregnancy Resources Together Graduate Programming Connections Religious Vocations Becoming a Jesuit Support Campus Ministry Alumni Resources Liturgy & Sacraments Overview Mass Schedule Liturgical and Music Ministries Sacraments University Chapels Rise and Reflect Related Links BC Jesuit, Catholic Maps Retreats Service Immersion Overview 4Boston 4Boston Community Partners Appa Arrupe International Immersion Global Public Health–Honduras Habitat for Humanity Ignatian Family Teach-In Faith Communities Overview Catholic Christian Life Community Gratia Plena Ignatian Society Knights of Columbus St. Thomas More Society Sons of St. Patrick Una Voce Multi-Faith Student Faith Groups Off-Campus Worship Multi-Faith Chapel Racial Justice Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Mission & Ministry Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Alumni Resources Home About Alumni Resources Alumni, parents, and friends are invited to stay engaged in the spirituality that animates Boston College beyond their time on the Heights. Here are just a few ways you can commit to ongoing spiritual and personal development no matter where you are. Resources Print Connect with Us Stay connected with Boston College Campus Ministry – and with classmates, friends, and family engaged in our programming. Find us on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and Youtube. Stay Involved Wondering how to get connected to our programs' individual alumni networks? Here are a few places to start. - Were you a member of 4Boston during your BC years? Join us on LinkedIn. - Did you participate in Appa Volunteers during your BC years? Join us on LinkedIn. Boston College’s Alumni Spirituality programming attends to the sacramental, spiritual, and pastoral needs of the alumni community. All of this is accomplished through Masses, retreats, service experiences, and faith programming. Learn more via the Alumni Office. Find a Parish There are 66 Jesuit parishes around the United States, located in inner cities, suburbs and rural outposts, as well as on college campuses and Native American reservations. A Jesuit parish is guided by the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius Loyola, which encourages people to reflect on their experiences and to discern God’s presence in their lives. Such parishes aim to nurture lay leadership as well as personal faith, and are committed to a “faith that does justice” by way of solidarity with the poor and dedication to the greater good. A full directory is listed on the Jesuit’s website. Make a Retreat The Jesuits have retreat centers across the country that offer a range of spiritual programming rooted in Ignatian spirituality. Retreatants have the opportunity to pursue directed, guided, and/or silent prayer in many of the centers. Visit the Jesuit Province’s website for a listing of these 23 places to pray. Charis Ministry, a nationwide network, offers retreat experiences in the Jesuit tradition for men and women in their 20s and 30s, helping them to develop deeper spiritual lives and stronger connections to faith communities. Publications America Magazine America magazine is the leading Catholic journal of opinion in the United States. First published in 1909, America magazine is known across the Catholic world for its unique brand of opinion and analysis. From theology and spirituality to politics, international relations, arts and letters, and the economy and social justice, America’s coverage spans the globe, telling the stories that matter most to the church and the world. Busted Halo Busted Halo is a unique media resource that utilizes a relevant and accessible voice to help people understand the Catholic faith, put it into practice in their everyday lives, and share it with others. Busted Halo is a ministry of The Paulist Fathers. The Paulist Fathers are a religious order of Roman Catholic priests — the first to be founded by an American citizen — whose mission territory is the United States. The Jeusit Post TJP is a project of Jesuits in formation. Nearly all of the contributors are not-yet-ordained Jesuits studying theology or philosophy, or working in our Jesuit ministries. Several recently ordained Jesuits also contribute to the work. On the whole, about 50 Jesuits are currently involved in the project. In addition to the website, TJP maintains a very active social media presence, contributing to the web’s best conversations about faith and culture — whether it touches on politics, theology, Church news, debates about belief and secularity, or really anything else. Solidarity on Tap The Ignatian Solidarity Network, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Jesuit Volunteer Corps Northwest, Boston College School of Theology and Ministry, Jesuit School of Theology at Santa Clara University, and Jesuitical welcome those connected to the Jesuits and Ignatian spirituality to join together for a simple gathering. Bring a friend to this social (justice) gathering. Check here for upcoming dates near you. Weddings at BC Congratulations on your engagement! Having your marriage at Boston College speaks to the important place our University community has in your life and, as you begin wedding preparations, we want to help make planning this special celebration easier. Information on the use of the chapel, scheduling a wedding, planning the ceremony, and more can be found on the Weddings page. Back To Top Back To Top Campus Ministry Boston College McElroy 233 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Racial Justice Liturgy & Sacraments Service Immersion Retreats Faith Communities Support Campus Ministry Division of Mission & Ministry Mission and Ministry Campus Ministry Center for Ignatian Spirituality Center for Student Formation First Year Experience Intersections Montserrat Pastoral Support The Volunteer and Service Learning Center University of Mission and Ministry Service Center Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College