Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Safer Sex Abstinence What does it mean to be abstinent? For some people, abstinence means having no sexual contact at all with a partner. For others, abstinence means having no genital contact with a partner. While abstinence may have different meanings for different people, abstinence is most commonly understood to mean not having sexual intercourse. People may define sexual intercourse as including vaginal, anal, and/or oral sex. When abstinence is discussed as a strategy to prevent pregnancy or the transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), it means abstaining from activities which put you at risk for STIs and/or pregnancy. Abstinence from intercourse does not have to mean lack of sexual expression and satisfaction, because there are so many other pleasurable things you can do. Why do people choose to be abstinent? Being intimate without intercourse is a satisfying way to explore and learn about your body and about your partner's body without any sense of pressure to go further. People choose to be abstinent for many reasons: Not being ready for sexual involvement Waiting for the right person Supporting personal or religious beliefs Focusing on school or career activities Avoiding the risk of pregnancy or sexually transmitted infections (STIs) It is normal and natural to go through periods in your life when you choose to be abstinent, whether you are in between relationships or you are currently in a relationship. The decision to have sex is your decision, each and every time, regardless of whether or not you've been sexually active in the past. How effective is abstinence in preventing pregnancy and STIs? Abstinence from vaginal, anal and oral sex is the most effective way to avoid pregnancy and STIs, but this method does require self-control and commitment. You need to be aware that how you define abstinence, meaning the behaviors you include and exclude, will raise or lower your risk for pregnancy and STIs. Pregnancy could occur if ejaculatory fluid is deposited near the opening of the vagina. STIs such as human papilloma virus (HPV) and herpes can be transmitted by skin-to-skin contact. Oral-genital contact comes with the risk of STIs including HPV, herpes, gonorrhea and hepatitis. How do I choose to be abstinent? You might begin by considering what types of sexual intimacy you are comfortable with. It can be important to make these decisions before you are in the heat of the moment because it can be more difficult to talk about your sexual limits when you and/or your partner are aroused. Consider your values and reasons for choosing abstinence, think about situations where it might be difficult to maintain abstinence, and consider how other people or substances like alcohol or other drugs might influence your decision. Use the following questions to help you make your decision about abstinence: Do you feel comfortable with your present level of involvement with your partner? What are your reasons for choosing abstinence? Do you feel pressured to have sex? What do you imagine as a possible result of having sex? How will you feel about yourself? How will you feel about your partner? Are you comfortable talking to your partner about your decisions? Can you discuss prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs)? Do you feel comfortable taking the responsibility to prevent pregnancy and STIs? What might tempt you to have sex? Are you willing to avoid these situations to stick with your decision? What other ways will you find to be sexual (alone or with a partner)? Adapted from: Princeton University's Sexuality Education, Counseling and Health website. Once you are sure of your own sexual boundaries, talk with your partner(s) about your decision and ask about their boundaries. Abstinence works best when all involved agree to it and maintain open communication. Related Links For more information about abstinence, you can visit: Planned Parenthood About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment View the SHAG video series! Ship n SHAG! Place an order with Ship n SHAG and get free safer sex supplies discreetly delivered to your campus mailbox! Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook