Skip Navigation Texas A&M University at Galveston Find info for: Future Students Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans University Catalog Phonebook Calendar A-Z List Search MENU About TAMUG Academics Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Search Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Administration Directions A Wave of Change HOWDY Portal Select Web or People Web People Search Menu Home About Academics Administration Admissions Campus Life Giving Research Directions A Wave of Change Phonebook Calendar Info For: Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Former Students Visitors Veterans Campus Life Student Affairs Campus Recreation Dine On Campus Student Diversity Office of Community Standards Living Learning Communities Campus Living & Learning Student Activities The Nautilus Traditions Veterans Life in Aggieland When Sea Aggies speak of "The Other Education," they are talking about leadership training, clubs, intramurals, traditions, student government and all the other aspects of the TAMUG experience. Many elements converge to create the campus atmosphere: the student newspaper (NAUTILUS), the drama club, and more than 60 student organizations, which include academic, professional, community and campus service, religious, and just-for-fun student groups. Student services (eg. counseling, career services, advising, etc. are managed through Student Affairs or Center for Academic Learning Support). Student Affairs Student Activites Career Services Visit Campus Recreation website Visit Campus Recreation website Club Sports Outdoor Program Intramural Sports Career Services Student Resources For Employers Jobs Posting Career Fair Career Services can offer a variety of services for students in every stage of the career planning process, from your freshman year through graduation. These services include: Career Resource Room with work stations for employment research, resume writing and professional correspondence. Resume and cover letter assistance. Interview preparation and mock interviews. Learn more about Career Services Counseling Who said college was going to be easy? Each year, the Office of Student Counseling provides services to undergraduate and graduate students at Texas A&M University Galveston Campus. The Office is staffed by licensed counselors and the services rendered to students are free, voluntary, and confidential. The Office staff is dedicated to assisting students in their pursuit of personal and academic growth, to helping students gain a better understanding and appreciation of themselves, and to supporting students as they make important decisions about their lives. Learn more about Counseling Living Learning Communities-LLCs Campus Living & Learning works with TAMUG Faculty and Staff to implement Learning Communities (LCs) and Living Learning Communities (LLCs) to give students enriching academic experiences outside of the classroom. LCs and LLCs are designed to aid students in meeting their collegiate goals while enforcing the idea of community and personal connections among peers, faculty, and staff. Learn more about Living Learning Communities About Texas A&M ABOUT TAMUG Links TAMUG at a Glance History of TAMUG Admissions Admissions Links Office of Admissions Scholarships & Financial Aid Texas A&M Maritime Academy Marine Training & Safety Links TAMMA Links About TAMMA Apply to TAMMA Academic Resources Academic Resources Links Majors & Minors Jack K. Williams Library Faculty Resources Research at TAMUG Graduate Studies Center for Academic Learning Support Sea Camp & Outreach Sea Camp Links Sea Camp & Outreach Programs Field Trip Opportunities Administration Administration Links Vice President & Executive Team Office of Academic Affairs Administration & Auxiliary Services Information Technology Diversity at TAMUG Human Resources Make a Gift Title IX Emergency Preparedness Open Records TAMUG Facebook TAMUG Twitter TAMUG Instagram TAMUG LinkedIn TAMUG Youtube Mailing Address: P.O. Box 1675 Galveston, Texas 77553 Physical Address: 200 Seawolf Parkway Galveston, TX 77554 Shipping Address: 1001 Texas Clipper Road Galveston, TX 77554 Phone: 409.740.4400 Back to top Accessibility – Privacy – Legal Notices – Annual Security Report – Annual Fire Safety Report Campus Security Authority Form – Contact us – Contact Webmaster – Mental Health Resources – State of Texas – Texas Homeland Security Statewide Search – Texas Veterans Portal – Texas CREW – Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline – Texas Veterans Commission © 2022 Texas A&M University at Galveston is a member of The Texas A&M University System