Skip to content About Financial Policies Object Codes Forms & Resources Financial Reports BEN Helps Support Portal Search Payroll & Taxes Payroll & Taxes Overview Individual Tax Rates and Forms University Tax Compliance Receiving Your Pay Payroll Schedules Hiring, Staffing and Working Abroad Workday@Penn Accounting & Reporting Accounting & Reporting Overview Closing Schedules and Procedures Object Codes Using Transfer Object Codes Health System Interfund Capital Asset Procedures Capital Project Funding Managing Endowment/Gift Funds Reporting Foreign Gifts and Contracts Payments & Disbursing Funds Payments & Disbursing Funds Overview Processing Invoices and Payments Non-PO Payments Paying Independent Contractors Honoraria and Guest Reimbursement 1099 Information Paying Program Participants via ClinCard Voids and Reissues Penn Marketplace Banking & Receiving Funds Banking & Receiving Funds Overview Incoming Payments Depositing Funds Credit Cards and PCI Compliance Gifts of Securities Sponsored Project Receivables Financial Training & System Access Financial Training & System Access Overview Access BEN Financials BEN Helps Support Portal Course Listings and Class Policies Register for Financial Training Knowledge Link Insurance & Managing Risk Insurance & Managing Risk Overview Report an Incident International Travel Guidance Certificates, Claims Histories, Waivers and Event Insurance Event Insurance Vehicle Registration & Driver Safety Home / Financial Policies Financial Policies Policies related to the financial operation of the University of Pennsylvania Filter All Series 1100 – Accounting 1400 – Financial Reporting 1500 – Cash 1600 – Investments 1700 – Loans and Receivables 1800 – Debt Financing 1900 – Tuition, Fees and Other Student Charges 2000 – Sales and Services 2100 – Sponsored Projects 2200 – Gifts 2275 – Collectible Assets 2300 – Procurement/Disbursements 2350 – Travel 2400 – Payroll 2600 – Risk Management & Insurance 2700 – Internal Controls 3000 – Miscellaneous All Offices Accounting Operations Accounts Payable Applications Group Audit, Compliance & Privacy Budget Planning & Analysis Cash & Debt Management Cash Management Comptroller Corporate Tax, Compliance & Payroll Facilities and Real Estate Services (FRES) Financial Reporting Financial Systems & Training Financial Training Gift & Investment Services Gift Accounting & Administration and Records Human Resources Investments Office of General Counsel Procurement Services Provost Research Services Risk Management & Insurance Student Registration & Financial Services Treasurer Trust Administration VP of Finance Search 2350 - Travel Clear all filters Sort By Policy Code Last Reviewed Last Reviewed June, 2020 2351 Travel and Entertainment – Overview To provide a policy overview for the purchase and payment/reimbursement of travel and entertainment on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2352 Travel and Entertainment – Procurement of Travel, Entertainment and Other Miscellaneous Goods and Services by Affiliates The purpose of this document is to define the internal control objectives and associated responsibilities for the procurement of travel, entertainment and other miscellaneous goods and services (Reimbursable Procurement) by affiliates. Reimbursable Procurement is the purchase of goods/services, including travel and entertainment (T&E), by individuals or entities on behalf of the University using non-University fund sources (e.g., cash, personal liability credit cards, personal checks and other entity disbursements) for which reimbursement or University payment is appropriate. Payment for any services performed, awards, honorariums, refunds, etc., are not reimbursable procurement. Payments to establish funds to pay human subjects are not reimbursable procurement. See Section 2300 for policies related to this type of procurement. Affiliates are defined as employees (faculty and staff), students and postdocs. Employees and students are those individuals who are active in the University’s HR/Payroll System and Bursar System, respectively. Postdoc status must be verified through associated school records. Reimbursable Procurement by Non-Affiliates has additional control requirements, principally related to tax reporting, which are addressed in Section 2353. A Non-Affiliate is any person who is not an employee, student or postdoc (e.g., guests, consultants, independent contractors or corporations), and not on the University’s payroll or bursar system. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2353 Travel and Entertainment – Procurement of Travel, Entertainment and Other Miscellaneous Goods and Services by Non-Affiliates The purpose of this document is to define the internal control objectives and associated responsibilities including authorization/approval controls for procurement of travel, entertainment and other miscellaneous goods and services (Reimbursable Procurement) by Non-Affiliates. Reimbursable Procurement is the purchase of goods/services, including travel and entertainment (T&E), by individuals or entities on behalf of the University using non-University fund sources (e.g., cash, personal liability credit cards, personal checks, and other entity disbursements) for which reimbursement or University payment is appropriate. Payment for any services performed, awards, honorariums, refunds, etc., are not reimbursable procurement. Payments to establish funds to pay human subjects are not reimbursable procurement. See Section 2300 for policies related to this type of procurement. A Non-Affiliate is any individual who is not a University employee (faculty and staff), student or postdoc. Non-affiliates include guests, recruits, consultants, independent contractors, or corporations, and are therefore not in the University payroll or bursar systems. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2354 Travel and Entertainment – Air Travel To provide travel guidelines with regard to the procurement of airline tickets when traveling on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2355 Travel and Entertainment – Rail Travel To provide travel guidelines with regard to the procurement of rail tickets for when traveling on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2356 Travel and Entertainment – Lodging To provide travel guidelines with regard to the procurement of lodging and accommodations when traveling on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2357 Travel and Entertainment – Rental Cars To provide travel guidelines regarding the use of rental cars when traveling on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2358 Travel and Entertainment – Personal Vehicles and Ground Transportation To provide travel guidelines regarding the use of personal vehicles and other ground transportation providers for ground travel on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed June, 2020 2359 Travel and Entertainment – Meals and Entertainment This policy provides guidelines with regard to the purchase and reimbursement of meals and entertainment when traveling or entertaining on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services Last Reviewed April, 2020 2360 Travel and Entertainment – Telephone Usage To provide guidelines with regard to telecommunication expenses incurred when traveling on behalf of the University. 2350 - Travel Procurement Services 1 2 3 Have recommendations or feedback? We’d love to hear from you. Give Us Feedback Division of Finance About Financial Policies Object Codes Forms & Resources Financial Reports University Resources Penn Home U@Penn Webmail Directories Penn A-Z ©2022 Division of Finance at The University of Pennsylvania. Report Accessibility Issues Get Help Site designed by P’unk Ave