Skip to content Enter search text All the UW Current site Search scope All the UW Current site MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Menu Home My Husky is a . . . Transfer student International student Out-of-state student First-generation student First-year student Sophomore/Junior Graduating student Resources Parent & Family Guide Student Life Academics Health & Safety Living & Dining Finances Transportation Move In Resources Talk with your Husky Husky Huddle-up podcast Forms, releases, and accounts Common Questions Events All events UW Family Weekend Connect Support Parents & Families Events Join Us Throughout the year, we are excited invite our UW Families to campus events. Save the date for UW Family Weekend 2022: October 14-16. Our events are a great way for you to get a better understanding of what to expect during your student’s academic journey, discover new resources and opportunities, and connect with other UW families. OUR ANNUAL EVENTS FAMILY WEEKEND UW Family Weekend invites families to campus to spend time with their Husky and get a taste of UW life. There’s plenty to celebrate this year as we reunite at the UW Family tailgate, cheer on the Dawgs at Homecoming and throw a celebration in Red Square for W Day. Bring the entire family and build your own weekend of fun! Learn more New Family Orientation Welcome to our UW Family! If you are one of our new families, you can learn more about programs, resources, and how to help your Husky have a successful start during their first year at UW. We also invite our families to connect via our official Facebook group. See our back-to-school checklist. Learn more Convocation A University of Washington welcome for new students, their friends and families. You and your student will get to know classmates, learn tips on navigating student life and celebrate the start of your husky experience. Read more President's Address As our University returns to in-person learning and work, President Cauce invites you to her annual address. She will share her perspective on the road ahead as we work together to recover from the pandemic and support equity and well-being for our community of faculty, staff and students. Learn more Commencement You did it! Graduation is a special time for students and families. We’re taking steps to help you celebrate your Husky, safely. Visit our dedicated UW Commencement pages which includes departmental celebrations. Read more PAST RECORDED EVENTS 2021 Convocation Watch a video of the 2021 convocation, held on September 28. Safe return to campus presidential town hall President Ana Mari Cauce hosted a virtual town hall to discuss the safe return to in-person learning in the fall. UW Family Wellness Weekend: Resilience and Well-Being Conversations about student wellness, building resilience and Husky mental health. View the presentation slides UW Family Wellness Weekend: Husky Mental Health Conversations about student wellness, building resilience and Husky mental health. View the Well-being for Life and Learning Guidebook University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA