We use cookies to make your website experience better. To learn about how we keep your information safe, view our Privacy Policy. Accept Safer Return to Campus Masks Strongly Recommended. Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure. Skip To Main Content Popular Searches × Safer Return at Cal Poly Pomona Home Phased Reopening Employee Repopulation Plan Phases of Safer Return COVID-19 Dashboard COVID-19 Dashboard Notification of Potential Workplace Exposure to COVID-19 University Risk Response Plan Reporting Requirements Quarantine and Isolation Process Health and Safety Plan News and Updates Checklist Before Coming to Campus HEERF Student Aid COVID-19 Informational Materials Events Vaccine Information Public Health Testing for COVID-19 [UPDATE] The Public Health Testing Site will move to the Student Health and Wellness Center (Building 46) starting Monday, May 23. May 19 - The last day for testing at CLA Paseo. May 20-22 – Testing is closed. No testing offered at CLA Paseo or Building 46. May 23 – First day of testing at Student Health and Wellness Center (Building 46) Cal Poly Pomona’s Public Health Testing Site at the Student Health and Wellness Center allows students and employees to participate in required and voluntary testing. Testing is available by appointment or walk-in, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Make an Appointment via MyHealthPortal COVID-19 Testing Program Details 1. Individuals who are required to test will receive an email each week with instructions to schedule an appointment for the current week (Monday through Friday). The email will link to the online scheduler and provide details about the testing process. 2. On the day of your appointment, go to the Student Health Center. Bring your Bronco ID card or provide a picture ID. You may arrive 20 minutes early or 20 minutes late. People with appointments will have priority. (For ideal test results, do not brush teeth, smoke/vape, eat, or drink liquids 30 to 60 minutes before testing.) 3. About 12 hours after your test, you will receive an email alert or text message that your results are available. Log into MyHealthPortal to view your results. If you test negative for COVID-19: No further action is needed The following week, you'll receive another email reminder to schedule your appointment for the week. If you test positive for COVID-19 Do not come to campus until you have been cleared by the Safer Return Incident Investigation Team. Students and employees will be contacted by the Safer Return Incident Investigation Team. If you have immediate questions related to a positive test, exposure to COVID, symptoms or the health screener, email healthscreener@cpp.edu. Frequently Asked Questions Expand/Collapse All Frequently Asked Questions Who is Required to Test Who is required to test? Weekly public health testing is required for all students and employees who come to campus or attend in-person university activities. Individuals who have verified their vaccination in MyHealthPortal are exempt, unless otherwise required by CPP policy, local, state or federal health authorities. Required to test: Individuals who have not uploaded a vaccination record and not received notice of verification in MyHealthPortal Individuals who have requested a medical or religious exemption to vaccination Do I have to show proof of a negative test before going to class or accessing campus facilities? The testing program is not a gatekeeping mechanism – you are not required to show proof of a negative test to attend class or access campus facilities. The testing program is used to detect and monitor potential cases and minimize outbreaks. However, if you feel sick or experience COVID-like symptoms, do not go to campus. Instead, report your symptoms via the online Health Screener and a member of the campus’ Incident Investigation Team will follow up with you. If you receive a positive test result, do not go to campus. Either Student Health or a member of the campus’ Incident Investigation Team will follow up with you on next steps. Is there an exemption to the weekly public health testing? Weekly public health testing is required for students and employees (state and auxiliary) who come to campus or participate in in-person university activities. Only individuals who have verified their vaccination will be exempt. If I’m not going to be on campus this week, do I have to test? Testing is required for the week if you are: Going to campus for any amount of time Accessing campus facilities, such as the BRIC, Bookstore, Library, SSB, CenterPointe Dining, classroom, office, laboratory Going to in-person internship or co-op that is sponsored by the university, either on-campus or off-campus I’m feeling sick. Should I go to campus for testing? If you experience any of the symptoms below, do not come to campus. Instead, report your symptoms via the online Health Screener and a member of the campus’ Incident Investigation Team will follow up with you. Do not participate in the public health testing program, unless otherwise instructed. If you experience any of these symptoms, do not come to campus: Fever (at or over 100.4 F or 38 C) Chills Cough Shortness of breath/difficulty breathing Sore throat New loss of taste or smell Muscle aches or body aches Vomiting or diarrhea The purpose of the campus’ public health testing program is not to diagnose COVID-19 infection for individuals who experience symptoms. Instead, it is used to detect and monitor potential cases and potential outbreaks on campuses, especially among people who do not show symptoms. I am experiencing COVID-like symptoms. Where can I get tested? For students, contact Student Health and you will be advised of next steps. For employees, seek care from your primary health care provider. Call in advance before going to the facility. I am fully vaccinated and would like to be tested. Can I make an appointment for a campus test? Yes. the Public Health Testing site does allow voluntary testing for students and employees. Availability of appointments and walk-ins may be limited because the testing site primarily serves individuals who are required to test. Go to MyHealthPortal to make an appointment. Can I meet the weekly testing requirement with a test from off-campus? No. If you are required to participate in weekly public health testing at Cal Poly Pomona, you must schedule an appointment with the campus testing site. We are not able to confirm testing results at other locations. If I’ve tested positive for COVID-19, when should I test again? If you’ve tested positive for COVID-19 at the campus Public Health Testing Site, you should wait 90 days before taking another PCR test on campus. If you need to re-test to end your isolation period earlier than 10 days, you should take a rapid antigen test. Students can make an appointment with Student Health [link to website] to get a rapid test. If it’s negative, you may be able to end your isolation time early and return to normal activities. Employees should find a rapid antigen test if you want to end your isolation period sooner than 10 days. These tests are sold at many pharmacies and retailers, and the federal government is providing four at-home kits to every household at no charge. If you get a negative test result from the self/at-home/off-campus tests, you must take a photo and email it to the incident investigators at healthscreener@cpp.edu. Only after the result is confirmed, you may be cleared to resume your normal activities on campus. Location and Hours Where is the testing location? The testing program is located at Student Health and Wellness Center (Building 46), which is located north of the College of Environmental Design (Building 7) and south of Parking Lot J. Signs labeled “Public Health Testing” at the front entrance of the center will provide directions to the testing area. Public Health Testing was previously held at the CLA Paseo and moved to Building 46 starting on May 23. What are the hours of the testing site? The testing site will be open Monday through Friday, from 8:30 a.m. (first appointment) to 4:00 p.m. (last appointment). The site is closed on weekends. Is there parking near the testing location? There is parking in the small lot in front of the Student Health Center and the J lot. The testing site does not have dedicated parking and does not offer drive-thru services. How long does the appointment take? Plan for 15 minutes for the entire testing process, including check-in and checkout. The actual saliva test should take no more than 5 minutes. Testing Info What type of COVID-19 test is used? The university has contracted with SheildT3 to provide saliva-based tests that are processed via a qPCR process, which produces fast and accurate results. How should I prepare for my test? When you come for your appointment, be prepared to show the QR code that you received upon scheduling your appointment. For ideal test results, do not brush teeth, smoke/vape, eat, or drink liquids 30 to 60 minutes before your appointment. Can my family test at the campus’ Public Health Testing Site? No, unless they are current students or employees. Cal Poly Pomona’s Public Health Testing Site is only open to students and employees for required and voluntary testing. It is not set up to handle electronic medical records for members of the public. Family members and household members of students and employees are not able to test on campus. Making an Appointment How do I make an appointment? Each week, usually Sunday night or Monday morning, you will receive an email that prompts you to schedule an appointment via MyHealthPortal. Follow the instructions to make an appointment for the week (Monday through Friday). Are walk-in appointments allowed? Walk-in appointments will be accepted, although individuals with appointments will receive priority. If the testing site is over capacity, you may be asked to return at a different time and day. I missed my appointment this week. What do I do? If you missed your appointment, go online and schedule another appointment. Or, you may go to the testing site and walk-in for the test. Individuals with appointments will receive priority. If the testing site is over capacity, you may be asked to return at a different time and day. I forgot to schedule an appointment this week. What do I do? You have an entire week (Monday through Friday) to be tested. If you forgot to schedule your appointment, go online and schedule another appointment. Or, you may go to the testing site and walk-in for the test. Individuals with appointments will receive priority. If the testing site is over capacity, you may be asked to return at a different time and day. Do I have to keep the same appointment each week? Can I schedule my appointments for the entire semester? Appointments are scheduled a week at a time. You will receive an email on Sunday night or Monday morning that prompts you to schedule your appointment for that week (Monday through Friday). At this time, the system does allow people to schedule appointments weeks in advance. Do I need to schedule a test before going to my on-campus class? Not necessarily. You have an entire week to complete your test, and you’re not required to test before attending in-person activities. For scheduling purposes, the week begins Sunday and ends Saturday, and testing is available Monday through Friday. EX: If you plan to be on campus on a Sunday, you can schedule a testing appointment anytime in the next five days (Monday through Friday). EX: If you plan to be on campus Monday and Wednesday for class, you have until Friday of that week to test. You’re not required to schedule the appointment on Monday before attending class. EX: If you plan to be on campus on Saturday only, you must come to campus during the week (preceding Monday through Friday) for your test. Test Results Who has access to my test results, besides myself? For students, only Student Health will have access to your test results. For employees, the campus’ Incident Investigation Team will have access to your results. Am I required to share my test results with others (my manager, faculty member, work colleagues, other students)? No, you are not required to disclose your test results to others. Employers and faculty members should not ask you to disclose your result. Only Student Health and the campus’ Incident investigation Team will have access to your results. If you choose, however, you can share your results with others. Upload Your Vaccine Record All students and non-represented employees will be required to upload their vaccination records. Vaccine Record Upload Instructions Vaccine Requirement Info Visit MyTurn to Find a Vaccination Center 3801 West Temple Avenue, Pomona, CA 91768 ©2021 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona All Rights Reserved About Cal Poly Pomona Feedback Privacy Accessibility Document Readers