Home Research Ultracold Molecules Molecular Laser Cooling Nonlinear Optics About ZLab ZLab at a Glance Team Members Publications Sponsor Support Resources Open Positions Academics Contact May 27, 2021. Jinyu Dai, Emily Tiberi, Tanya Zelevinsky, Sebastian Vazquez-Carson, Kon Leung, Brandon Iritani, Jianhui Li, Qi Sun Photodissociated ultracold diatomic molecules Images and simulations of quantum photodissociation Laser-cooled atom cloud in a vacuum chamber Blue light for atom cooling and trapping Trace analysis setup for noble-gas dark matter detectors Ultracold molecule experiment An exploding diatomic molecule Red laser beams propagating through the air Please enable Javascript for more content! Diatomic Lattice Clock Matter near absolute zero has fascinating properties. Ultracold atoms and molecules can be confined in tiny regions of space and studied with great precision. At ZLab, we use laser light to create ultracold diatomic molecules of strontium. These molecules in an optical lattice allow us to measure subtle yet important properties of molecular quantum physics and chemistry. On a more fundamental level, the molecules provide an ensemble of tiny clocks where the vibrations determine the ticking rate. This type of quantum clock can help us test molecular quantum electrodynamics, the constancy of fundamental constants, and possible non-Newtonian forces at the nanometer scale. Laser Cooling of Molecules Ultracold polar molecules have many applications from modeling strongly interacting quantum systems to producing exotic atomic gases via dissociation. At ZLab, we are exploring ways to directly cool molecules in order to manipulate and study them. We use a combination of buffer gas cooling and laser cooling with the goal of creating a magneto-optical trap for a new type of diatomic molecule, barium monohydride. One exciting possibility is to precisely break the bond between the barium and hydrogen to obtain ultracold fragments. Dilute ultracold hydrogen would be the most fundamental atomic system for studying a wide range of fundamental physics. Table-Top Particle Physics We are collaborating with Yale University and University of Massachusetts to use cold diatomic molecules and optical techniques to measure time-reversal symmetry violation in atomic nuclei (Cold Molecule Nuclear Time Reversal Experiment, or CeNTREX). Recently, in collaboration with the Laboratory for Astrophysics we built an apparatus to quantify a tiny contamination of a noble-gas detector used in dark matter searches. In another interdisciplinary project, we used microcavities to stabilize lasers for next-generation portable atomic clocks. Read More Read More Optics Pupin Hall, Room 632. Phone: (212) 851-0192. 538 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027-5255.