Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Parent and Family Relations Menu Search TTU Parent and Family Relations Sibling Saturday Sibling Saturday 2022 was Saturday, February 19th, 2022 Sibling Saturday is held in the spring semester and is designed to bring siblings of Texas Tech students aged 8-15 to visit the Texas Tech campus. The schedule includes an afternoon of activities chosen to get Texas Tech students involved with their little brothers or sisters and create great memories. Read the Sibling Saturday FAQ. Parents and Family Schedule during Sibling Saturday While your TTU students and their siblings are attending Sibling Saturday events, here are some things you and the rest of the family can do in Lubbock and on campus. You can stop by during Sibling Saturday Check-in and grab a welcome bag from Visit Lubbock with a visitor's guide: Lubbock Lion's Club 70th Pancake Festival (also a great place to get breakfast before Sibling Saturday check-in) 7:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.; Lubbock Memorial Civic Center, 1501 Mac Davis Lane. Tickets are $12 at the door and proceeds support local charities. For more information, click here. Wolfforth Farmer's Market 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. 8924 County Rd 7100. Shopping, eating, and fun. For more information, click here. Texas Tech Lady Raiders vs. Kansas 2:00 p.m. United Supermarkets Arena. Your student and registered siblings will be attending the Lady Raiders basketball game, and you can sit with them, too! Use the Promo Code SIBLING22 for $6 General Admission tickets. There's a lot to do in Lubbock. See Visit Lubbock for local attractions, dining, shopping, family fun, and more. Other Ways to Connect with Your Sibling Online Red Raider Trivia Red Raider Trivia coming soon! Test your knowledge of Texas Tech and learn some new fun facts. Red Raider Coloring Book Download and print a copy of the Red Raider Coloring Book. In Lubbock Opportunities for you and your sibling to spend time in the city of Lubbock. Year-Round Attractions Buddy Holly Museum 1801 Crickets Ave. For more information and hours of operation, visit www.buddyhollycenter.org American Wind Power Museum 1701 Canyon Lake Drive. For more information and hours of operation, visit windmill.com Wolfforth Farmer's Market 8924 CR 2100. Saturday mornings 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. Fresh, locally grown produce and crafts from local vendors. For more information about this event, visit https://www.wolfforthfarmersmarket.com/. Prairie Dog Town Inside Mackenzie Park off of 4th Street and Interstate 27. Protected prairie dog colony. Additional information can be found here. Other ways to Explore Lubbock Visit Lubbock Local LBK Lubbock In the Loop Find special events activities using our Family Days Calendar. At Home Activities that you and your sibling can do at home. Visit your local parks Go hiking/fishing together Plan a movie night - it can even feature Texas Tech Alumni Have dance/music night Cooking a meal or bake together Have a family game night Download and print a copy of the Red Raider Coloring Book Hear what others have to say about Sibling Saturday "I liked getting to show my sister around the campus. The classroom experience was fun because they did cool experiments and my little sister got called to the front with the engineering professor. My best memory was probably just getting to spend time in my new house and city with my little sister. It was overall a great experience that I will cherish memories from for a lifetime." Sibling Saturday Participant "Sibling Saturday really helped me show my sister the joy of going to college and the possibilities that are out there. For the first time my little sister is excited about going to college!" Sibling Saturday Participant "Sibling Saturday was a wonderful way for our 10-year-old to reconnect with her big sister! They both had a blast and we plan to participate every year." Kim Turner, Lubbock Parent and Family Relations Like Parent and Family Relations on FacebookLike Parent and Family Relations on Facebook Follow Parent and Family Relations on twitterFollow Parent and Family Relations on twitter Subscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTubeSubscribe to Parent and Family Relations on YouTube Follow Parent and Family Relations on InstagramFollow Parent and Family Relations on Instagram Address 201Q Student Union Building, Box 42024, Lubbock, Texas 79409-2024 Phone 806.742.3630 Email parent@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 23, 2022 1:08 PM Parent and Family Relations Meet Our Staff/Contact Us Programs & Events Parent and Family Relations Programs & Events Back Family Weekend/Family Days Sibling Saturday Webinar Series Holiday Bus Trips Red Raider Orientation Parent & Family Relations Think Tank Resources for Parents and Families Parent and Family Relations Resources for Parents and Families Back Resources for Parents and Families Student Safety and Wellness Parents and Family Member of High School Students eNewletters & Publications How to Get Involved! Texas Tech Parents Association Información en español Parent and Family Relations Información en español Back ¡BIENVENIDOS, PADRES Y FAMILIAS! Ver esta pagina en español La guía del padres y la familia Lubbock, TX Parent and Family Relations Lubbock, TX Back City of Lubbock Hotel Accommodations Weather Visit Lubbock Map of Lubbock Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index