Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics Science and Technology Date February 15, 2022 2022-02-15 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown physics faculty member earns 2022 Sloan Fellowship Andrey Gromov, an assistant professor of physics, has been awarded a prestigious Sloan Fellowship for his research into exotic quantum states of matter that could enable quantum computing technology. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — Andrey Gromov, an assistant professor of physics at Brown University, is one of 118 researchers from across the United States and Canada to receive a 2022 research fellowship from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. The foundation announced on Tuesday, Feb. 15, the winners of the fellowships, which are awarded annually to early-career scientists and scholars identified as the next generation of scientific leaders. Gromov studies materials and states of matter in which the interactions between constituent particles are very strong. Macroscopic properties of these materials are determined by the interactions between the particles, rather than by the nature of the particles themselves. These highly correlated systems give rise to lots of interesting physics, including fractons — particle-like entities created by strongly interacting particles. Fractons are topologically protected, meaning once they form, they’re very difficult to destroy. They also move only in very specific ways, or are entirely immobile. Those properties make fractons interesting candidates for storing and manipulating quantum information. Gromov is working to develop new mathematical techniques for understanding fractons and the circumstances in which they arise. “Research in highly correlated materials has generated a lot of excitement over the past few years, both for our understanding of basic physics and for the possibility of new applications like quantum computing,” Gromov said. "I am grateful to the Alfred Sloan Foundation for supporting my research, and I'm looking forward to making new discoveries in this exciting field.’’ Gromov joined the Brown faculty in 2019 after a postdoctoral appointment at the University of California Berkeley and the Kadanoff postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Chicago. He is also the recipient of a National Science Foundation CAREER award, a top honor for early-career faculty. Since the first Sloan Research Fellowships were awarded in 1955, 70 faculty from Brown University have received the prestigious award. Tags Research Related news: Science and Technology Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates May 19, 2022 Scholars from Rice and Brown universities say that next-generation wireless networks that use the technology could be designed with built-in defenses against the ‘metasurface-in-the-middle’ attack. Read Article Open details for Eavesdroppers can hack 6G wireless frequency with DIY metasurface, research team demonstrates Science and Technology Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups May 4, 2022 New methods of analyzing DNA will allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations, ultimately enabling more targeted treatments. Read Article Open details for Researchers highlight more equitable way to analyze DNA data from understudied groups Science and Technology Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion April 20, 2022 A self-propelled robotic swimmer, developed by Brown University students and faculty, could help researchers better understand the complex swimming behaviors of bacteria and other microorganisms. Read Article Open details for Robotic swimmer sheds light on microorganisms in motion Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown physics faculty member earns 2022 Sloan Fellowship Open details for Brown physics faculty member earns 2022 Sloan Fellowship Bookmark this Page