Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Financing & Support Internal Funding & Appointments Global Mobility Research Fellowship Graduate School Skip to Navigation Global Mobility Research Fellowship The Global Mobility Research Fellowship program supports doctoral students who seek to conduct pre-dissertation or dissertation research abroad during one summer or academic year semester. The program funds current research projects of exceptional value that require international research activity. Award recipients expand Brown’s global reach and will contribute to the institution’s mission of discovering, communicating, and preserving knowledge. The fellowship award is in lieu of a student’s regular summer or semester stipend. Application Deadlines Fall 2021: Monday, June 30, 2021 Spring 2022: Friday October 8, 2021 Summer 2022: Friday, March 18, 2022 Eligibility Applicants must be Brown University doctoral students who will be in years two through six. (Please note that students beyond the sixth year at the time of the award are not eligible.) Applicants must be active in a preliminary or dissertation research project, including but not limited to fieldwork, archival research, scientific experiments with international facilities or individual laboratories of collaborators. Awardees will be required to meet policies for University-sponsored international research travel. Please see detailed information is available on the Travel Policies webpage of the Healthy Brown website. All students, regardless of travel destination, are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe. Priority will be given to students for whom other funding opportunities, including external funding opportunities, may not be available and for whom international research activity may not be possible without the award. Priority will also be given to students outside the Division of Biology and Medicine. Doctoral students in their sixth year in the academic year, 2021-22, are not eligible to apply for the summer 2022 fellowship. Award Specifications and Conditions Awards support doctoral-level research abroad for one academic semester or for a period of three months during the summer. Students selected for an academic semester fellowship will be awarded a stipend of $14,300; students selected for a summer fellowship will be awarded a stipend of $9,700. Award funds apply to reasonable and necessary costs of conducting research abroad, including round-trip air travel, visas, accommodations, and subsistence costs. Recipients will be given a fellowship appointment, allowing students otherwise on a Teaching Assistant, Research Assistant, or Proctorship appointment to pursue their research out of residence. The fellowship award is in lieu of a student’s regular semester or summer stipend and is fully paid by the Graduate School. Recipients maintain their eligibility for additional support of travel costs through the International Travel Fund. Selection Criteria Proposals will be considered and evaluated by a committee of faculty and administrators who will make award recommendations to the Dean of the Graduate School. Reviewers will consider the following criteria to evaluate proposals: the scholarly merit and intellectual significance of the proposed research, including impact on the applicant’s broader academic field of study; the clarity of the proposed research questions and the feasibility of the work plan; and, the justification for research at the proposed international site and the evidence demonstrating prior or desired research activities at the proposed institution abroad. Students may be awarded only one Global Mobility Research Fellowship during their graduate studies at Brown. Application Requirements Applicants are expected to submit the following information through UFunds (see Graduate School Distinctive Opportunities, Global Mobility Research Fellowships): Applicant and Proposal General Information: title of the proposal; 250-word abstract describing the proposed research project. Proposal narrative that summarizes and articulates the project’s significant contribution in the graduate student’s field of study. The proposal should include the goals of the research project, why research for an extended period at the international location is necessary, and a work plan for completing the research activities. The applicant should describe the project in terms that do not require reviewers to be experts in the area of proposed research. The proposal should also address the plan’s financial feasibility (which may encompass other sources of support). The proposal narrative should not exceed 4 pages. Curriculum Vitae (upload directly to UFunds application) Letter or email of invitation from the host institution (if not in English, please provide translation) or from international collaborator(s). Letters can be submitted to [email protected] up to one week after the deadline and added to the application. If more time is needed please contact Kirk Robinson. Support. Applicants are asked to add the following recommenders in their application: 1. Faculty Advisor, who will receive a UFunds notification requesting a Message of Endorsement. 2. Director of Graduate Study, who will be asked to affirm program support. Travel Approval and Safety Plan. All applicants are required to register their travel plans in TravelSafe. Depending on the destination, graduate students may need to complete a Safety Plan via TravelSafe and obtain permission from the Global Travel Risk Assessment Committee (GTRAC) prior to making travel arrangements. If the plan is not approved, the Fellowship cannot be awarded. Detailed information is available on the Travel Policies webpage of the Healthy Brown website. Reporting requirements The grantee must submit a final report to the Graduate School within one month of returning from the research abroad trip, summarizing the work accomplished during the fellowship period (maximum 2 pages) and a brief abstract (maximum 200 words) of the report. Questions? Please direct inquiries for this grant opportunity to [email protected]. Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Living & Resources Financing & Support Tuition & Fees Health and Dental Insurance Financial Considerations Master's Funding Ph.D. Funding Internal Funding & Appointments Student Loans Student Employment Student Payroll Procedures Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Related Items Global Mobility Fellowship Application on UFunds Previous Fellowship Award Winners Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants