Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Communications Home Who We Are What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources Site Navigation Home Who We Are University Communications Staff What We Do Our Work Start a Project Policies & Resources Marketing Services A creative team made up of professionals who are expert in brand identity and strategy, visual design, content strategy, web and digital strategy, social media, photography, video production, and digital marketing and analytics, all work closely with content producers to devise targeted communications solutions. Teams of print services staff at Brown’s Digital Print Facility and Copy Center deliver high-quality print solutions, while also coordinating some projects with external vendors. Strategic Consulting Our marketing team works with academic and administrative units across campus to plan and execute strategic communications and marketing plans that include reputation and brand management, key message development, digital marketing and social media approaches, multimedia engagement, and web and digital strategy. Visual Design and Branding Our Creative Services team marries content with design, using the most appropriate media to tell your visual story. We provide creative services for digital and print design, large format and signage projects, cross-media solutions, event promotions, illustration and more. Web and Digital Communication Strategy Our Web and Digital Communications team leads user experience, content strategy, design and front-end development efforts for Brown’s website and other digital communication platforms. Learn More Digital Marketing and Social Media We can help you develop a clear, effective and engaging strategy for using email marketing, social media, digital advertising and other emerging communication technologies. Marketing Editing and Writing Our writers and editors craft copy in the most effective style and voice for multiple platforms and audiences. We support specific projects initiated by the Office of Communications, or help you identify an approved freelancer to meet your needs through the Designated Vendor Program. Video Production and Photography OUC's photography and video staff members typically support projects initiated by the Office of Communications to help advance the mission of the University. Fee-for-service video services are available for marketing projects with a high strategic impact. We may also help you identify an approved freelancer to meet your needs through the Designated Vendor Program. Timing for Typical Projects Fee Structure Designated Vendor Program Brown’s Designated Vendor Program provides creative choice for offices and departments across campus that work with external vendors for various marketing communications needs, while also ensuring Brown meets federal requirements and other regulations related to marketing communications. Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Brown University Box 1920 South Street Landing, Floor 5 350 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone: 401-863-6262 Email [email protected] Email media_relations @brown.edu Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top