Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Research at Brown Show/Hide Home Conducting Research at Brown Centers, Institutes and Libraries Undergraduate Research Assistance How Do I...? Research Ethics & Integrity IRB | IACUC | Conflict of Interest | Export Control | Research Misconduct | Authorship | RCR | Research Data Management | Data Use Agreements | Reporting concerns Office of Research Integrity Our Vision To cultivate a culture of research conducted ethically and with transparency. Our Mission The Office of Research Integrity (ORI) partners with the research community to facilitate ethical research guided by governing policies and regulations. Our Core Values Achieve Excellence: We hold ourselves to high ethical standards and maintain an environment of encouragement, support, and inclusivity. Our diverse perspectives drive smarter decisions, increase innovation, and strengthen performance. Have Fun: Paperwork might not always be fun, but we are! We seek to find the bright side in every situation and maintain a sense of humor. Evolve and Adapt: We navigate the ever-changing landscape of research policy with agility, creativity, and transparency to continuously improve our practices. Collaborate: We welcome respectful dialogue and partnership to solve problems. If we don't have the answer, we'll work together to find it. ORI’s multidisciplinary team: Provides administrative support and regulatory advisement to the University's Institutional Review Board (IRB), Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) , Conflict of Interest Review Board, and Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight (ESCRO) Committee. Assists researchers with adhering to requirements associated with international research collaborations, including running the University’s Export Control Compliance Program; Manages the intake, review and approval of Data Use Agreements for research; Promotes integrity in research by providing training in the ethical and responsible conduct of research; Handles allegations of research misconduct; Through its Quality Assurance / Quality Improvement program, conducts outreach and education to researchers and staff regarding best practices to facilitate regulatory compliance and required institutional approvals, and performs post-approval monitoring and investigations of potential research-related non-compliance. There are several avenues available to report compliance and integrity concerns: Anonymously via EthicsPoint Confidentially to the Director of the Office of Research Integrity To the Vice President for Research, serving as the Institutional Official You may also consider speaking with Brown's Ombudsperson to discuss your concerns and determine if you would like to proceed with a formal complaint or report. We are committed to excellence in all the services we provide. We look forward to working with you. Conducting Research at Brown Finding Funding Research Strategy and Development (ORSD) Preparing and Submitting a Proposal Managing an Award Sponsored Projects (OSP) Research Compliance (IRB, IACUC, COI, Export Control, Research Data Management and Data Use Agreements) ORI staff directory Research Misconduct Policy Authorship Policy IRB IACUC Export Control Conflict of Interest QA/QI Program DURC ESCRO IBC Research Data Management Brown Technology Innovations Research Administration Information Systems (RAIS) Research Management Support (RMS) Research Agreements and Contracting International Research & Activities Responsible Conduct of Research (RCR) How Do I...? 2022 Research Achievement Award Winners About the Office Newsletter Forms and Policies Training and Outreach Graduate Student Resources Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Office of the Vice President for Research 350 Eddy Street | Brown University | Box 1937 | Providence, RI 02912 Vice President for Research 401-863-7408 [email protected] Research Strategy and Development 401-863-7999 [email protected] Brown Technology Innovations 401-863-7499 [email protected] Office of Sponsored Projects 401-863-2777 [email protected] Research Administration and Information Systems 401-863-2777 [email protected] Office of Research Integrity 401-863-3050 [email protected] @brownuresearch Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat