Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Office of the Registrar University Bulletin Office of the Registrar Important Graduation Related Deadlines ****ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS**** Important Spring 2022 Graduation Related Deadlines Read more. University Bulletin The University Bulletin of Brown University serves as the historical reference document for the general curriculum, academic requirements, and other pertinent information for a specific academic year for Brown University and is published as of a specific date and updated regularly throughout the academic year for course information. The University Bulletin is no longer published in print format and is only consumable online. PDF versions for archived Bulletins are available online as well. For PDF versions on iPad please download as an iBook for optimal features. For the current and archived versions of the University Bulletin please visit https://bulletin.brown.edu/ Course Announcement Bulletin The Course Announcement Bulletin, or CAB as it is often referred to, is specific to The College but contains information that is part of the larger University Bulletin. The CAB is accessible via the University site and similarly is not available in print format but as a PDF. However, print copies can be ordered for a fee via Brown Graphic services by using the following form. The Course Announcement Bulletin pdf will be updated twice each year – at the time of publication in mid-March and just prior to the start of classes in late August. If you plan to order a hard copy, you may want to wait until August 31 for the most current course information. Course Announcement Bulletin hard copy order form Note: Since both the University Bulletin and the CAB are static published documents some information, in particular courses, have been adjusted, cancelled, or new courses added. For the most up-to-date course information please visit the [email protected] application at cab.brown.edu. In addition, undergraduate concentration requirements may have also been adjusted, please visit Focal Point on the A-Z index for a complete list of concentration information as well as up-to-date requirements. Related Files Course Announcement Bulletin order form Academic Calendar Academic Records University Bulletin Course Enrollment Degree Guidelines Final Exams Faculty/Staff Resources University Scheduling Office Classroom Assignments & Locations Contact Us Gateways For Students For Faculty For Staff Print this Page Share this Page Office of the Registrar Brown University Box K 69 Brown Street Page-Robinson Hall, 3rd floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone 401-863-2500 Fax 401-863-7542 [email protected] Academic Calendar Jun 2 All Day Registration period for Summer courses for Brown undergraduates re-opens at 9:00 a.m.EDT and remains open until Wednesday June 22 at 5:00 p.m. EDT Jun 19 All Day Residence halls open. Jun 20 All Day Juneteenth Holiday observed. No University exercises. Jun 20 All Day Summer Session opens. Jun 21 All Day Summer Session classes begin. Jun 22 All Day Last day to change courses (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline). (All students MUST be in their registered courses by Thursday, June 23.) Jul 4 All Day Independence Day holiday. No University exercises. Jul 6 All Day Last day to change grade options (5:00 p.m. EDT deadline) Jul 29 All Day Classes end. Jul 30 All Day Reading Period View full calendar > Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Student Links [email protected] Banner Video Tutorials Banner Web Student Information Rights - FERPA Voter Registration ASK - Advising Sidekick Related Offices Admission Dean of the College Alpert Medical School Bulletin of the University Bursar Financial Aid Graduate School School of Professional Studies