Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Brain Science Ph.D. school Graduate School Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Alumni Outcomes Leadership Contact and Location Brown provides a unique environment in which to pursue interdisciplinary brain science graduate training. Brown University provides a unique environment in which to pursue interdisciplinary brain science graduate training. Research at Brown emphasizes collaborative theoretical and experimental studies of the brain, from the molecular to the behavioral and cognitive levels. It unites researchers who study the fundamental mechanisms of nervous system function and those who seek to create devices with brain–like functions that can assist people. The faculty is also committed to translating fundamental knowledge into practical applications to the diagnosis and treatment of the devastating effects of disease and trauma of the nervous system. Brown is a leader in brain–related research and offers exceptional training and course work for those interested in pursuing careers in brain science. Brown's Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science partners with eight discipline–based graduate programs. Students interested in interdisciplinary brain science training enter through one of these graduate programs. Carney–affiliated graduate programs include: Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Biostatistics Cognitive, Linguistic, and Psychological Sciences Computer Science Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Molecular Pharmacology and Physiology Neuroscience Carney offers a number of opportunities for graduate students in any program to stretch beyond their discipline. Carney Institute lunches, seminars and workshops are held several times per semester and feature broad topics and informal discussion led by Brown faculty members and guests. Graduate students can also apply for the Carney Institute graduate student awards. Carney also administers two NIH training grants: the Interactionist Cognitive Neuroscience training grant and the Interdisciplinary Graduate Training in Vision Research. Admission Information Inquire Apply Please follow the guidelines of the partnering departmental graduate program. Alumni Careers Learn More Leadership Program Chair Diane Lipscombe diane_lipscombe@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies David Sheinberg David_Sheinberg@brown.edu Contact and Location Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Location Address 164 Angell St, 4th floor Mailing Address Brown University Box 1901 Carney-Institute@brown.edu 401-863-9524 Visit the Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Resources Program Faculty Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brain Science Open details for Brain Science Bookmark this Page