Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Toggle navigation Main navigation About People Undergraduate Graduate Language Programs Courses News Events Resources Search Home Undergraduate Graduate Language Programs People Welcome The Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations (NELC) engages in the interdisciplinary humanistic study and teaching of the cultures of the Near East (often called the Middle East) as they express themselves in languages and texts, including both written and oral sources, as well as art, architecture, archaeology and material culture. Read more about NELC News Fatemeh Shams featured on OMNIA Podcast May 27, 2022 Fatemeh Shams, Assistant Professor of Persian Poetry and Literature, was recently featured on the OMNIA Podcast series, In These Times. This season, the fourth, focuses on how art in its many forms helps us through the tough times. Many found it difficult to cope with the COVID19 pande Read More Fatemeh Shams Presenting at ICI-Berlin April 30, 2022 Fatemeh Shams will present at a hybrid symposium, “Haunted by Homes,” at the Institute for Cultural Inquiry in Berlin, Germany being held on May 5 and 6, 2022. Dr. Shams has spent the past year in Berlin on the Humboldt Fellowship. Read More New Book by Yael Landman February 17, 2022 Congratulations to Visiting Instructor, Dr. Yael Landman, on the publication of her book, Legal Writing, Legal Practice: The Biblical Bailment Law and Divine Justice, by Brown Judaic Studies! Congratulations, Yael! Read More MIDDLE EAST 2.0 with Huda Fakhreddine February 15, 2022 We are happy to announce that, after a small hiatus, The Middle East Center's scholarly podcast on all things Middle East is back! The latest episode features our own Huda Fakhreddine. Click on the link to listen to her discussion on poetry and family. Read More Dr. Harry Eli Kashdan Guest Speaker for "Bite-Sized Talks" Event February 9, 2022 On January 31, 2022, Harry Eli Kashdan led a lively lecture and discussion for the second "Bite-Sized Talks" event, “How to Read a Cookbook: Cuisine and the Nation in Ottolenghi's London.” Read More Modern Egyptian Studies Forum Continues with Dr. Mercedes Volait January 23, 2022 On January 10, Dr. Read More Dr. Mbarek Sryfi Collaborator on NEA Fellowship Project January 20, 2022 Melanie Magidow, in collaboration with Dr. Mbarek Sryfi, were among the two dozen translators working from Arabic and Kurdish on a wide range of literary projects selected for 2022 National Endowment for the Arts (US) Literary Translation Fellowships. Read More Interview with Weston Bland: Communal Institutions and Coptic Visibility December 14, 2021 Leila Zonouzi from "Egypt Migrations" interviews PhD candidate, Weston Bland, about his dissertation research in Coptic studies. Read the whole article here. Read More A Two-Part Modern Egyptian Studies Forum October 28, 2021 The latest installment of the Modern Egyptian Studies Forum entitled, "Adventures in the Archives," was presented as a two-part event. Read More Dr. Peter Gran the latest guest of the Modern Egyptian Studies Forum June 21, 2021 On June 3, the Modern Egyptian Studies Forum was honored to welcome Dr. Peter Gran of Temple University. Conducted as a conversation with Mirna Wasef (University of California, San Diego) and Joel Gordon (University of Arkansas), Dr. Read More Keep Up to Date on COVID19 Policies Penn's COVID19 information page Read More NELC Newsletter - Second Issue We wanted to let you know what we've been up to since our last issue. Click here to view or download Volume 2! Check back for our next issue due out late in 2022. If you want to be added to our mailing list or have news you'd like to share in the newsletter, please send a request to lmgreene@sas.upenn.edu. We'd love to hear from you! 2021 NELC Newsletter Events Optional Link Optional Link Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page 1 / 3 Jan 26 2022 How the Bulgarians Survived the Holocaust Jan 26, 2022 at 7:00pm - 8:15pm Join us on January 26 for a Jewish Community Relations Council event, as we observe International Holocaust Remembrance Day and remember the innocent six million Jews and millions of other people who fell victims to… Jan 31 2022 How to Read a Cookbook: Cuisine and the Nation in Ottolenghi's London Jan 31, 2022 at 3:00pm | A Zoom Event Harry Eli Kashdan is a scholar of food culture and migration in the contemporary Mediterranean. He holds a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from University of Michigan, and was Lauro de Bosis Postdoctoral… Sep 30 2021 Dr. Shams: Panel on Afghan Scholars at Risk Sep 30, 2021 at 2:00pm - 4:00pm With the help of Humboldt foundation’s Philip Schwartz Initiative, an information panel to urge European academic institutions to sponsor more at-risk scholars will present on their progress to date and… Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Next page 1 / 3 Books A History of Muslims, Christians, and Jews in the Middle East This book examines relations between Muslims, Christians and Jews in the Ottoman Middle East before World War I. American Evangelicals in Egypt: Missionary Encounters in an Age of Empire Becoming the People of the Talmud: Oral Torah as Written Tradition in Medieval Jewish Cultures The Race for Paradise: An Islamic History of the Crusades With Urgency: A Collection of Poems Translated by Mbarek Sryfi and Eric Sellin. Donate Links Bite-Sized Talks Middle East Center Penn Museum Center for Ancient Studies Herbert D. Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies Contact Us Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations (NELC) 847 Williams Hall 255 South 36th Street University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104 Phone: 215-898-7467 Fax: 215-573-9617 Heather Sharkey Department Chair Josef W. Wegner Undergraduate Chair Joseph Lowry Graduate Chair College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal & Professional Studies © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Penn Weblogin