By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted Discovery Program In this Section Florence FAQ Madrid FAQ Strasbourg FAQ Information for Admitted Discovery Program Students Congratulations on your admission to a Syracuse University Discovery Program! Your selection for this competitive and distinguished program reflects our confidence in your readiness for a transformative academic experience. Visit the First-Year and Transfer Programs Required Tasks webpage for a complete list and instructions. By beginning your first semester abroad, you’ll: Expand your perspective on culture, education, business, politics, international relations, and more. Experience greater cultural immersion and improved foreign language skills by living with a host family. Set yourself apart with potential employers, and develop/strengthen your entrepreneurial skills and aspirations. For more information, interested students can check out: Syracuse Abroad Instagram Syracuse Abroad Facebook Your Health and Well-Being Our highest priority is the health and welfare of our students, faculty and staff. Syracuse University is vigorously monitoring COVID-19 in the United States and abroad in close coordination with state and local agencies. The University also continues to review public health and travel advisory guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the U.S. State Department. We will update you accordingly over the next several months. In the meantime, stay informed about Syracuse University's preparedness, coordination and planning . Preparing to Go Getting your Passports If you are even remotely considering studying abroad, apply for your passport immediately! The passport agency is experiencing long delays with passport processing, so it is important that you apply early. If possible, please use the expedited service. For full information on passports and how to apply, please visit the National Passport Agency web site . Where to Start You probably have a million questions about how to prepare, what to bring, and how you’ll handle daily activities in another country. Once admitted to the program, you will receive a “Preparing to Go” guide that is bursting with great tips to help you prepare for daily life in Madrid, Florence or Strasbourg. Safety & Security The safety and well-being of our students is our utmost priority. Visit the Health & Safety pages to learn about our safety policies and procedures. This comprehensive resource contains an overview of practices, along with a 24-hour emergency number, and a link to the Student Handbook, which contains very detailed information on how to prepare for life within another culture. Parent/Guardian Resources Please visit the Study Abroad Parent pages , which have been designed to address your specific concerns regarding topics such as acculturation (culture shock and reverse culture shock), Who to Contact When (a list of helpful phone numbers), and Responsibility Guidelines (including Study Abroad, student, and guardians). Hear from a Discovery Program parent . Learn About the Discovery Programs Review the details of your academic program Should you wish to begin on main campus in the fall instead of participating in the Discovery Program, please email lmraney@syr.edu as soon as possible and no later than May 1. Your request will be considered on a space available basis after May 1. Strasbourg Recommended Reading The Art of Travel by Alain deBotton Paris to the Moon by Adam Gopnik Dreaming in French: The Paris Years of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, Susan Sontag, and Angela Davis by Alice Kaplan Social Media Accounts Instagram Pinterest Facebook Get to Know Strasbourg Frequently Asked Questions about Strasbourg 36 Hours in Strasbourg video Madrid Social Media Accounts Instagram Pinterest Facebook Get to Know Madrid Frequently Asked Questions about Madrid 36 Hours in Madrid video Florence Social Media Accounts Instagram Pintrest Facebook Get to Know Florence Frequently Asked Questions about Florence 36 Hours in Florence video Related Pages SU Florence Center For hundreds of years, Florence has remained a perpetual fountain of creativity and intellectual thought. SU Strasbourg Center Strasbourg is an exciting place to study. Over 50,000 college students flock to Strasbourg each year, drawn by its great European institutions. SU Madrid Center Much more than a place to learn or perfect Spanish, Madrid is a modern political, cultural, and financial center. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy