Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities UW Bookstore UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW UW Home UW Institutional Directory Disclaimer UW - Laramie, Wyoming | University of Wyoming Home Menu news UW Institutional Directory University of Wyoming Privacy Notice The University of Wyoming (UW) understands that privacy is important to you. UW values your privacy and is committed to maintaining your trust. Therefore, we provide this Privacy Notice explaining how your information may be processed, managed and protected by us. This Privacy Notice describes how UW may collect, use, and share information you directly and indirectly provide when using UW websites. This Policy Notice does not cover the practices of our third-party partners (e.g., vendors), nor does it apply to Personally Identifiable Information (PII) that we collect from or about our employees, vendors, consultants, or contractors. Additionally, some UW websites may deviate from this notice. In these cases, we encourage you to read page-specific notices to ensure you understand the applicable privacy policies and practices. By using UW websites, you agree to the Terms and Conditions of this Privacy Notice and to our processing of personal information for the purposes stated below. If you do not agree to the Terms and Conditions of the Privacy Statements, please do not use the site or the mobile applications. International Visitors UW is located in the United States (State of Wyoming). By providing information to UW, you are transferring your personal data to the United States. If you are providing personal information and are not a resident of the United States, your country’s laws governing data collection and use may differ from those in the United States. The United States has not sought nor received a finding of “adequacy” from the European Union under Article 45 of the GDPR, and UW relies on derogations for specific situations as set forth in Article 49 of the GDPR. What Information We Collect UW collects personal information about you when you voluntarily provide it. Other services may require additional information through an account in order to access certain features; an account, created for you to authenticate into a system or service, includes personal information identifying you for the sake of the service. "Personal information" is any information that can be used to identify you or that may be linked to you. This information is commonly limited to the information found in a public directory, such as first name, last name, postal address, email address, and phone number. Websites When you visit University of Wyoming websites, we collect and use information provided to us by your browser, IP, site requests, etc. to customize your experience. Other examples of how we may use this data include (1) to deliver the content of our websites correctly, (2) optimize user experience, (3) receive and provide marketing feedback, and (4) deter and prevent abuse of our sites. For you knowledge, the data we collect may include the following information provided by your browser, ISP, and operating system. The public Internet Protocol (IP) address of the device through which you access UW websites. The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) of the website from which a device reaches a UW website (called a referrer), typically by following a link. The webpages requested from the UW websites. The Date and Time of Access. The Operating System of the device through which you access UW websites. The Browser Type and Version, the Monitor Screen Size and Color Depth and other plugin and program information as sent by your browser. Similar data and information that may be used in the event of attacks on our information technology (IT) systems Web Analytics UW websites use analytical tools provided by other companies, such as Google Analytics, a service provided by Google, Inc. We use this data to determine the number of people using our site, their journey through the websites, as well as how they find and use our web pages. These companies may separately record data such as your geographical location, device type, internet browser, operating system, your IP address, and associated information. To opt out of these services, you will need to modify your settings with them directly. To opt out of the Google Analytics advertising features outlined above, follow Google's opt out instructions. Cookies and Tracking UW may also collect certain information passively, such as collecting online, non-identifying information through the use of cookies technology and/or Internet Protocol (“IP”) address tracking. Through the use of cookies, UW provides more user-friendly services. Non-personal identification information might include the browser used by you, the type of computer, the operating systems, the Internet service providers, and other similar information. The UW system also automatically gathers information about the areas you visit on the websites and about the links you may select from within the site to other sites. Most browsers are set to accept cookies. You can set yours to refuse cookies, or to alert you when cookies are being sent; however, if you disable cookies, the full functionality of some our sites may not be available to you. Please note that we do not currently respond to web browser “do not track” signals or other mechanisms that may allow you to opt out of the collection of information across networks of websites and online services as there is no standard for how online services should respond to such signals. As standards develop, we may develop policies for responding to do-not-track signals that we will describe in this Privacy Notice. Other Sources UW may receive information about you from other sources, including third parties that help us update, expand, and analyze our records, identify new customers, or prevent or detect fraud. UW may also receive information about you from social media platforms, including but not limited to, when you access our social media content or interact with us on these platforms. The information we may receive is governed by the privacy settings, policies, and/or procedures of the applicable social media platform; therefore, we encourage you to review them. Children UW does not believe our websites are appealing to children, nor are they directed to children under 13. UW does not knowingly collect personally identifiable data from persons under the age of 13, and strives to comply with the provisions of COPPA (The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act). If you are a parent of a child under 13, and you believe that your child has provided us with information about him or herself, please contact us our General Counsel office by phone or email. How We Use Collected Information UW may use the information we collect: To respond to your inquiries To provide services or materials you request To operate and understand how services are utilized To maintain our contact list To provide business services for which the information is intended To assess the effectiveness of our events, campaigns, and publications For information processing that is reasonably appropriate or necessary within our legal obligations As a responsible organization, we do not use automatic decision-making or profiling. Moreover, your personal information will not be used in ways unrelated to the ones described without a clear notice and without providing an opportunity to opt-out or otherwise prohibit unrelated uses. How We Share Collected Information UW may share collected information with third parties and other University parties for legitimate business purposes without your consent, including but not limited to, the following reasons or in the following circumstances: As necessary to complete a transaction for you. To vendors or third-parties who deliver or provide goods and services or otherwise act on behalf of or at the direction of UW, such as exam testing agencies and partners, product-fulfillment companies, third-party event hosts, other third parties who may provide services on websites that are accessible from links on one of our sites, and credit card companies processing payment; To UW administration; To investigate potentially fraudulent or questionable activities; To cooperate with law enforcement or in response to a government or regulatory request, including if specifically requested or required, as otherwise permitted by law, and for other valid UW business purposes. Required by law or by an order of a court, regulatory bodies, or governmental authority. As we deem necessary to protect the rights, safety, or property of UW. UW also may use your profile information on an aggregate basis – without personal identifiers – to provide the University administration and third parties with information, such as developing new features and content for the sites, and providing sponsors and others with aggregate information about our users and the usage patterns of the sites. How We Protect Collected Information UW uses reasonable measures to safeguard personal information collected on its sites depending on its sensitivity. In order to prevent unauthorized access or disclosure, we have suitable physical, technical, and managerial controls and procedures to safeguard the information we collect online. Our measures follow applicable laws regarding the safeguarding of information under our control. However, no information system can be 100 percent secure. UW is not responsible for the security of information you transmit to us over networks that we do not control, including the Internet, email systems, and wireless networks. Moreover, you are responsible for protecting your username and password and for selecting strong passwords. We retain the information we collect online no longer than as reasonably necessary to fulfill the purposes for which we collect the information and to comply with our legal obligations. How to Contact UW Subject to local law, you may have certain rights regarding information that we have collected and that is related to you. We encourage you to contact us to update or correct your information if it changes or if you believe that any information that we have collected about you is inaccurate. To help us keep your personal information up-to-date or if you no longer wish to receive communications from us, please login to the UW website that collected your data and update your information. For general inquiries, please contact our UW’s Privacy Office below for further information. Robert Aylward Vice President Office of the CIO (307) 766-4860 raylward@uwyo.edu Privacy Notice Changes UW may update this Privacy Notice as the need arises, so we encourage you to periodically review this Privacy Notice. If we make any material changes in the way we collect, use, and/or share the personal information that you have provided, we will post notice of the changes in a clear and conspicuous manner on the UW websites. The Privacy Notice is effective as of August 20th, 2020. Equal Opportunity Clause Persons seeking admission, employment or access to programs of the University of Wyoming shall be considered without regard to race, sex, gender, color, religion, national origin, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation, genetic information, political belief or other status protected by state and federal statutes or University Regulations. Copyright Information The contents of this Web site are copyright protected. Any commercial use requires permission from the University of Wyoming. Contact Us Chad Baldwin Bureau of Mines Bldg 137 Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-2929 Email: cbaldwin@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility