About Programs News Blog Videos Research Select Page New book: Global Perspectives on Technology Transfer and Commercialization Global Perspectives on Technology Transfer and Commercialization: Building Innovative Ecosystems is the latest book by the IC² community of Research Fellows and associated scholars. Edited by John Sibley Butler and David V. Gibson of the Institute and growing out of a recent gathering of IC² Global Fellows, the book brings together papers on the state of technology transfer and commercialization in 13 countries as varied as China, Portugal, Kenya and the United States. From the publisher’s description: Technology transfer is a dynamic area of study that examines traditional topics such as intellectual property management, the management of risk, market identification, the role of public and private labs, and the role of universities. This volume reflects on how government, business and academia influence technology transfer in different countries and how the infrastructure of a country enhances technology and contributes to each country’s overall economy. Interpreting and adopting the processes of technology transfer and commercialization – or, building innovative ecosystems – is critical to seeing success in this digital age. Those leading the surge toward building innovative ecosystems for technology transfer are the fellows of the Institute for Innovation Creativity and Capital (IC2 Institute) at The University of Texas at Austin. Global in its scope of solving market economy problems, for this volume the Institute has focused its lens on accelerated knowledge-based development. Here, scholars from 13 countries come together to critique technology transfer from each of their respective nations. The results of their contributions lend innovative insight to exactly how different nations are working to maximize technology transfer and commercialization in uncertain times. Publication information Global Perspectives on Technology Transfer and Commercialization: Building Innovative Ecosystems ed. by John Sibley Butler and David V. Gibson. Edward Elgar Publishing, May 2011, 432 pp., ISBN 978 1 84980 977 1 Find the book: at Edward Elgar – at Amazon.com – in WorldCat libraries – in Google Books. Book reception on April 27 To celebrate the publication, please plan to attend a reception hosted by the IC² Institute from 4:00 to 5:30 PM on Wednesday, April 27, 2011. The event will be held at the Connally Banquet Hall at the UT Alumni Center. Please RSVP to Coral Franke (512-475-8947 or coral@ic2.utexas.edu). Skills Posted on April 12, 2011 ← Paul Zukowski speaks at Hannover Messe John Sibley Butler honored at Heman Sweatt Symposium on Civil Rights → Connect with IC² Contact 2815 San Gabriel St Austin, Texas 78705 512-475-8900 info@ic2.utexas.edu Subscribe to our Mailing List About Programs News Blog Videos Research Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS © The IC² Institute, The University of Texas at Austin 2021 Web Privacy Policy - Web Accessibility Policy