Skip to Main Content Brown University News from Brown Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Search Menu Topics News and Events Date June 16, 2020 2020-06-16 Media Contact Brian E. Clark [email protected] 401-863-1638 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Brown finalizes contract with graduate teaching, research assistants The University and SUGSE/AFT agreed on a three-year collective bargaining agreement covering wages, hours and other terms of employment for graduate teaching assistants, research assistants and proctors. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — In 2018, graduate students enrolled at Brown and engaged in research and teaching positions voted in favor of union representation. Subsequently, bargaining teams from the University and the union began negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement on terms and conditions of employment for graduate teaching assistants, research assistants and proctors. On June 4, 2020, Brown reached a tentative three-year agreement with Stand Up for Graduate Student Employees (SUGSE) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), which together represent graduate students who hold these positions at Brown. And on June 15, 2020, the union’s members ratified that agreement — completing the final step on approval of the contract. It will take effect beginning July 1, 2020. In a letter to the Brown campus announcing the tentative agreement, Provost Richard M. Locke and Graduate School Dean Andrew G. Campbell called it an important moment in what has been a collaborative and productive bargaining process. “From the earliest campus conversations on the possibility of graduate student unionization, we have made clear the essential role of graduate education at Brown and the vital contributions that graduate teaching assistants, research assistants and proctors make toward achieving our academic mission,” they wrote. “Discussions between the University and Union negotiating teams have been mutually collegial and respectful, despite different perspectives on some topics and the complexity of issues negotiated — especially given the unexpected impact of culminating the process during a global health crisis.” With the agreement finalized, the University will begin work to fully implement all provisions in close partnership with Brown faculty, staff and the graduate students who hold these roles. The final agreement is available on Brown’s Human Resources website. Tags Graduate School Related news: News and Events $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission June 1, 2022 The largest gift for international financial aid in University history, from alumni Aysha and Omar Shoman, will expand Brown’s ability to educate the most exceptional international students from all socioeconomic groups. Read Article Open details for $25 million gift from Shoman family advances Brown’s goal for need-blind international admission News and Events Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees June 1, 2022 Brown’s governing body elected each new member based on their commitment to the University and its mission of education and research. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation elects two new fellows, eight trustees News and Events Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 June 1, 2022 The $1.5 billion base budget includes deep investments in student financial aid and support for faculty and staff, balancing continued advancement in academic excellence with a focus on long-term financial sustainability. Read Article Open details for Brown Corporation approves base budget for Fiscal Year 2023 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Snapchat Twitter YouTube Social Media Directory © Brown University Brown University For You Current Students Faculty Staff Parents & Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Featured Events For Journalists Topics Arts and Humanities Environment Health and Medicine News and Events Science and Technology Social Sciences Student Life University Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation About Events For You Give to Brown All of Brown.edu People News Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Brown finalizes contract with graduate teaching, research assistants Open details for Brown finalizes contract with graduate teaching, research assistants Bookmark this Page