Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Apply Give to HGSE Search Apply for Degree Programs Apply for Professional Education Donate Give back to HGSE and support the next generation of passionate educators and innovative leaders. Keywords Close Menu Degree Programs Professional Education Faculty & Research Usable Knowledge Keywords About HGSE About the Dean Dean's Welcome Messages from the Dean Commentary and Media Dean's Office History of HGSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Our Impact Campus and Facilities Office Directory Virtual Tour Gutman Conference Center Reservation Request Form Capacities and Cost Floor Plan Catering Policies Audio Visual Directions, Parking, and Hotels Map of HGSE Directions to HGSE History of HGSE Buildings Faculty & Staff Directory Work at HGSE Title IX Information Doctoral Degree Programs Doctor of Education Leadership Doctor of Philosophy in Education Brochures Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Doctoral Viewbook Master's Degree Program Master's in Education Programs Education Leadership, Organizations, and Entrepreneurship Education Policy and Analysis Human Development and Education Learning Design, Innovation, and Technology Teaching and Teacher Leadership Concentrations Arts and Learning Early Childhood Global, International, and Comparative Education Higher Education Identity, Power, and Justice in Education Literacy and Languages A Personalized Approach Online Master's in Education Leadership Foundations Brochures Academic Catalog Academic Calendar Academic Year 2020-22 Programs Professional Education About Us Programs Early Childhood K-12 Higher Education Online Programs For Organizations Group and Team Enrollment Custom Programs Admissions Payment & Tuition Assistance Refunds & Withdrawals Policies and Accessibility Campus Experience On-Campus Program Health and Safety Policies FAQs Events Contact Faculty & Research Faculty Directory Centers, Projects and Initiatives Faculty Recruitment Faculty Experts Admissions Introduce Yourself Explore Find the Right Program Brochures Life at HGSE Connect Apply Refer a Candidate Frequently Asked Questions Financial Aid HGSE & Harvard University Consumer Information Tuition & Costs Applying for Aid Incoming Students Incoming International Students Continuing Students Scholarships, Fellowships & Grants Need-Based Grant Awards HGSE Fellowships Additional Fellowships External Fellowships Student Loans Student Work International Students International Applicant FAQ Funding Sources Students with Families Financial Aid Appeals Presentations & Publications Budgeting & Financial Literacy Budget Calculator Registrar News & Events Harvard Edcast Education Now Askwith Education Forum Upcoming Events Submit an Event Usable Knowledge Ed. Magazine Harvard Education Publishing Group Information for Media Education Now Usable Knowledge Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine HGSE Centennial Community Learning Beyond the Classroom Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Organizations and Initiatives Community Events and Action Resources Teaching and Learning Gutman Library Services Alumni Services Collections Special Collections Request for Library Purchase Library Hours Websites for Educators About the Library Facilities & Equipment Contact Information Coronavirus Response Information Directory Calendar Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services my.harvard Student Handbook Introduction Welcome to HGSE Preface Commitment to Diversity Part 1: Enrollment Policies Academic Programs and Affiliations Registration and Enrollment Policies Tuition and Fees Financial Aid Student Health Insurance Grading Part 2: Student Supports Advising HGSE Supports University Supports Campus Safety and Security Part 3: Program Policies Academic Governance Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Program Policies Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Program Policies Master of Education (Ed.M.) Program Policies Part 4: Academic Integrity and Standards of Conduct Resolution on Rights and Responsibilities Academic Standards and Integrity Standards of Conduct in the Harvard Community Committee on Rights and Responsibilities Policies on Harassment and Discrimination Policy on Consensual Romantic Relationships Policy on Physical Violence Policy on Misrepresentation of Status Policy on Illicit Substances Policy on Hazing Policy on Threats Part 5: Copyright and Publishing Policies Copyright Disclosure Use of the Harvard Name Information For Current Students Alumni Harvard Undergraduates Educators Recruiters Media Connect with HGSE Facebook Twitter Linked In LinkedIn Symbols Created with Sketch. Instagram Alumni Network & Connect HGSE alumni form a lifelong network — creating many ways to connect with one another, pursue learning opportunities, and help drive HGSE’s leadership in the field of education. Our Alumni are a global and diverse community as represented in the Alumni Porch-rait Project. Connect Alumni Directory The best way to stay connected is to update your information in the Alumni Directory. The Harvard Alumni Association Alumni Directory is your comprehensive resource for staying in touch with classmates and other alumni around the world. Make sure your profile is up to date with your most recent contact information. You need your HarvardKey to log in, so if you haven’t claimed yours yet visit key.harvard.edu and choose the “alumni” tab. Network Online Follow HGSE on Facebook, HGSE Alumni on Twitter and Instagram, and join the HGSE Alumni LinkedIn group. Networking Events Throughout the year the Alumni Relations team hosts various networking events. To ensure you receive an invite, please make sure your contact information is correctly listed in the Alumni Directory. Ed. Magazine Get to know the people, projects, and ideas that make the Ed School special — read our award-winning magazine, printed biannually and always available online. Build Community Harvard Alumni for Education Harvard Alumni for Education (HAEd) is a special interest group that connects Harvard alumni involved in education. Joining HAEd allows you to connect with over 2,000 members spread out across several chapters across the globe. Alumni of Color Conference Taking place each spring, the Alumni of Color Conference (AOCC) aims to inspire and improve the education sector by convening alumni, students, practitioners, artists, and scholars both from the Harvard Graduate School of Education and across the nation in order to share best practices and cutting edge research that pertains to people of color in educational spaces. The Appian Way Alliance for Alumni of Color The mission of The Appian Way Alliance for Alumni of Color (The Alliance) is to create a vibrant, inclusive, active, and supportive community of alumni and students of color. The Alliance creates opportunities through community-wide and regional events for alumni of color to connect with one another; enhance relationships between alumni and students of color; provide academic, career, and other types of support to students; and proactively address issues of equity, inclusion, access, and diversity at HGSE and in the community. Please email The Alliance for more information. Gutman Book Talks Gutman Library Book Talks celebrate the scholarship of Harvard Graduate School of Education community members and provide a venue for critical discussion and engagement with current issues in the field of education research, practice, and policy. Upcoming Gutman Book Talks can be found on the HGSE Public Events Calendar. In this section Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Alumni Alumni Network & Connect Get Involved Learn & Grow Benefits & Services Sign up for our newsletters to get the latest from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Sign Up Now Artboard 1 13 Appian Way | Cambridge, MA 02138 Centennial Contact Us Directory Directions Harvard University ©2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Linked In Symbols Created with Sketch. Youtube RSS Podcast HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice