Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Targeting age-related inflammation to slow Alzheimer’s disease: The LINE-AD study The goal of Alzheimer’s research is to bring discoveries from the laboratory to patients as quickly as possible. Brown University Professor John Sedivy, associate dean and director of the University's Center for the Biology of Aging, published a discovery from his laboratory in the journal Nature in 2019 showing that nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors used to treat HIV decreases age-related inflammation. His publication has led to a major grant from the Alzheimer’s Association’s Part the Cloud Translational Research Funding program to study this medicine in early Alzheimer’s disease. The Brown team for this bench to bedside study includes aging researchers, Alzheimer’s disease and HIV experts and faculty from the statistical sciences. What is the LINE-AD study? This is a Phase I randomized, double-blind study seeking to enroll 35 participants with mild cognitive impairment or mild Alzheimer’s disease. The study will last approximately nine months and includes a screening, treatment and follow-up phase. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either Emtricitabine or a placebo, which is an inactive substance designed to look like a medication, but has no effect. Both Emtricitabine and the placebo will be administered as a daily oral dose. Participants will be asked to visit Butler Hospital or Brown’s MRI Research Facility during the study. What is the purpose of the LINE-AD study? The purpose of this study is to look at the safety and tolerability of Emtricitabine (FTC, Emtriva©, Gilead) in treating participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild Alzheimer’s disease. It will specifically examine inflammation in the brain due to Alzheimer’s disease and see if Emtricitabine could potentially reduce the inflammation at a level that could help with cognition and daily function. Emtricitabine belongs to a class of drugs known as nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. This type of drug is already approved by the FDA to treat AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) caused by infection with HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus). Eligibility Men and women aged 50-85 with mild cognitive impairment or mild Alzheimer’s disease. Interested individuals can learn more about their eligibility by contacting the Memory and Aging Program Outreach Team at 401-455-6402 or by sending an email to [email protected]. Research Themes: Alzheimer’s DiseaseCognition and BehaviorNeurobiology of Cells & Circuits Research Leads Stephen Salloway Associate Director of Clinical Research for the Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research, Martin M. Zucker Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Professor of Neurology Biomarker and drug development for Alzheimer’s disease Research Profile John Sedivy Hermon C. Bumpus Professor of Biology, Associate Dean and Director, Center for the Biology of Aging Research Profile Rami Kantor Professor of Medicine Research Profile Fenghai Duan Associate Professor of Biostatistics Research Profile Constantine Gatsonis Henry Ledyard Goddard University Professor of Statistical Sciences, Director of Statistical Sciences, Professor of Biostatistics Research Profile Hwamee Oh Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, Assistant Professor of Cognitive, Linguistic and Psychological Sciences Research Profile All Carney Research Projects Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top