Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students Apply Now Lincoln Li Senior Designer at Electronic Arts Cohort: 18 Current position: Senior Designer at Electronic Arts Games shipped: Halo 2 Remastered, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered, DOOM, Mafia 3 Q&A with Lincoln What is the best part about your current position? The diversity and different challenges I've gotten to work on, and the ability to put my hands in all aspects of game development. As one of the all-around designers at the studio, I've done everything from LD, Systems, UI, Scripting, Audio and Sandbox. It's been a fortunate gift to build my skills in all facets. How did you first become interested in a career in gaming? It came up during undergrad. I was originally in a major that the majority of people went into either Manufacturing/CAD Graphics or Film/Animation, and I was not a very good artist! However, I did discover I had a really solid aptitude for understanding games and game development. While at Purdue, I got involved in more game dev clubs, started making projects, and found myself loving the development process (not to mention being pretty good at it). Why did you choose to get your education from the Guildhall? I had just finished two contract stints in Seattle for Sony and WB Games, and I found that I had hit a wall in my career in my attempt to become a designer. SMU Guildhall felt like a solid choice given its Master's program, which aligned with my desire to become a full-fledged designer in the AAA industry. At the time, what I needed was time to build up my technical skills for a solid portfolio, and SMU Guildhall provided exactly that. How did the Guildhall prepare you for your career in gaming? In the absence of prodigal talent, time and effort is the key to all great successes. That is one of the few universal truths that I feel the world has, and SMU Guildhall provides that opportunity equally to everyone who is enrolled. It's a tough path, and I won't sugar-coat life nor would it do people any favors if I did by saying that everyone succeeds. However, Guildhall is the place to be to prove whether you can really be the best in our Industry. What is your favorite Guildhall memory? There's a sense of camaraderie, both professional and friendship, that has carried on with me past graduation. I think my cohort will tease me for this (as they did even during our time there), but I used to always parallel us with the TV show Band of Brothers. We might not have been in a war, but we faced hardships, happiness, success, failures, and so much more together. At least personally, it was a very special experience and bond that I will always fondly remember. What is the greatest piece of advice you've ever been given? The easiest and hardest way to succeed in any career, and in life, is the ability to understand yourself, be introspective, and always, ALWAYS, keep an open-mind. Flexibility is key to leading a healthy, happy, and fulfilling life, and I would want everyone to feel accomplished in their life pursuits. Work hard, work smart, play hard, play often, and know that you live your life with so many other amazing individuals in the world, and it's our duty to be inspiring, and to be inspired! Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x