Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Campus safety Campus safety You have a right to live, work, study and socialize in an environment that’s free of violence and harassment. If you have concerns about your or another person’s wellbeing, these services can help. Be your best Remove barriers and create new pathways to success. Community Standards and Student Conduct helps UW students develop high standards of ethics, integrity and accountability. Check out CSSC Stay safe The UW Police Department is committed to partnering with you to create a safe campus. Visit UWPD’s website for crime prevention tips and more. Learn about UWPD Find support for sexual assault Discover safe ways to get medical and emotional support for sexual assault and how to report it. This website lists resources available to help you. Find sexual assault resources Get around safely after dark Celebrating late with friends? Cramming for exams into the wee hours? Working out after dark? The speedy and professional security guards of the newly expanded Husky NightWalk program are here to get where you’re going safely after dark. Learn about Husky NightWalk If you see something, say something You know to call 911 for emergencies, but what about other behavior that concerns you but might not be an emergency? It’s still important to speak up. SafeCampus can help. HELP PREVENT VIOLENCE WITH SAFECAMPUS Refer someone in need LiveWell is a starting point for students in distress and in need of multiple levels of care and support. MAKE A REFERRAL TO LIVEWELL Confidential advocacy The UW LiveWell Confidential Advocates provide a safe and confidential space to help students identify what they want or need after an incident of sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking or sexual harassment has occurred. LiveWell Confidential Advocates Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA