Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Undergraduate Admissions Apply International Students Undergraduate Admissions Why UW Bothell Academics Student Life Career Connections Viewbook Apply Application Dates & Deadlines First-year Students How to Apply Admissions Requirements Advanced Coursework Homeschool Students Transfer Students How to Apply Admission Requirements Transfer Planning Worksheets Transfer Credit Policies International Students First Year Students Transfer/Post-Baccalaureatte Students Veteran Students Other Student Types English Language Proficiency Application Review I Applied. Now What? FAQ Costs & Aid Visit Us Virtual Campus Tour Calendar Admitted Students First-year admitted students Transfer admitted students Post-baccalaureate admitted students FAQs Contact Apply International Students International students International students contribute global perspectives in the classrooms and on campus, which promotes UW Bothell’s commitment to fostering a community of global learners. We believe a student body rich in diversity—culturally, socially, and economically—significantly contributes to a dynamic and vibrant learning community for all students. As international students, you will apply as either a first-year student or a transfer/post-baccalaureate student. What is an international student? An international student is an applicant who is not a United States citizen or permanent resident and plans to attend a college, university, or other post-secondary education institution in the U.S. This includes applicants that hold U.S. visas as students, exchange visitors, or other nonimmigrant classifications. The information we provide in this International Admissions section is for international students who are not United States citizens or permanent residents and plan to attend a college, university, or other post-secondary educational institution in the U.S. This includes applicants that hold F-1 student visas, J-1 exchange visitor visas, or other non immigrant classifications. If you have dual U.S. citizenship, U.S. permanent residency, refugee status, or political asylum, you are not considered an international student. If you have applied for U.S. permanent residency (i.e., green card) and you anticipate it will be approved before enrolling at the UW Bothell, you should not apply as an international student but as a domestic First-Year, Transfer, or Post-Baccalaureate. Undergraduate-level studies in the U.S. lead to the first university degree, a Bachelor’s degree either in Art or Science. A bachelor’s degree in any field of study generally takes four years to complete and includes general academic course work and course work in a specific area of academic interest. Students seeking undergraduate studies either have or will complete secondary-level education or are planning to transfer from another college or university, but have not yet completed a bachelor’s degree or its equivalent. Quick Links First-Year Students Transfer Students Meet with an advisor English Language Proficiency Center for International Education FAQ Request information about UW Bothell Why UW Bothell for international study? UW Bothell offers incredible opportunities with quality advising to help you plan your academic courses, as well as excellent career mentoring, research opportunities, multiple health and wellness programs, and numerous student organizations. We welcome students from around the world to join UW Bothell and earn an internationally recognized University of Washington degree. UW Bothell is located halfway between the cities of Bellevue and Everett, in what is known as the “tech corridor” given the many international and start-up technology and biomedical companies that make this region their home. This provides incredible career opportunities to the students at UW Bothell. For more specific questions and inquiries contact an International Admission Advisor by calling +1-425-352-5000, emailing at uwbintl@uw.edu, or chatting online with us. International Admissions Journey What can you expect when you apply to UW Bothell? The admissions journey below outlines the full process from beginning to end. Step 1: Explore DISCOVER What are you interested in studying? The discovery phase in your college search is a time to explore your passions and see how UW Bothell can help you achieve your academic and career goals. Read more about why UW Bothell is a great place to learn and grow! VISIT Come to campus to experience the sights and sounds of our park-like setting and determine if it’s right for you. Set up your virtual or in-person campus visit. CONNECT Speak with an admissions advisor 1:1 to review specific questions you have or conduct a personalized review of your transcripts before applying. Schedule an appointment with an admissions advisor. Step 2: Apply DETERMINE IF YOU ARE A FIRST-YEAR OR TRANSFER STUDENT The requirements for admissions, the application process, as well as the application itself depend on your status as either a first year or transfer student. Read more below about the different student types. REVIEW ADMISSION REQUIRMENTS Admissions requirements vary depending on whether you are a first-year or transfer student. International students must fulfill additional requirements. Read more about first-year admission requirements OR transfer admissions requirements. REVIEW FORM I-20 AND F-1 VISA REQUIREMENTS FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS If admitted to UW Bothell, you will need to submit some additional forms. It is helpful to understand these prior to applying. Read more about the I-20 form and F-1 Visa. COMPLETE PROOF OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY Proof of English language proficiency is required for all students who did not complete most of their primary and secondary education in the US, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, or the United Kingdom. Read more about the English Language Proficiency requirement. COMPLETE YOUR APPLICATION First-year students will use the Common Application with some additions specific to UW Bothell. Transfer students use the CollegeNet application, which serves as both the general UW application and the application for your intended major. Find out how to apply to UW Bothell as an international first year student OR as an international transfer student. CHECK EMAIL FREQUENTLY, SUPPLY ANY MISSING ITEMS We may contact you after you submit your application if something is missing and/or to submit final high school or community college transcripts. Keep an eye on your inbox of the email you used to apply. Read more about what to do after you apply. Step 3: Enroll ACCEPT YOUR ADMISSION You did it! Being admitted to UW Bothell is a big accomplishment and another step towards making your dreams a reality. Accept your offer of admission to become a member of the Husky family by paying the $100 deposit. DON'T FORGET ABOUT FINANCIAL AID If you are seeking assistance to help fund your UW Bothell education, consider applying for financial aid. The priority application deadline is January 15 of each year, but you can still apply for financial aid after the deadline. Learn more about financial aid. EXPLORE MORE STEPS Get ready for your arrival on campus by completing all the remaining next steps, such as submitting vaccine documentation and attending Orientation. Read more about admitted students. Are you a First-Year, Transfer, Post-Baccalaureate, or Graduate International Student? Read over the descriptions of each student type below! Each has a different set of requirements and processes to apply for admission. International First-Year Students A student who has completed or will complete secondary school (high school) but has not yet attended any college or university. If you have completed high school and plan to enroll in college classes before attending the UW Bothell, you should apply as a transfer student. If you are taking college-level courses while you are still attending high school, apply as a first-year. Find out how to apply as a first year international student International Transfer/Post-Baccalaureate Students A student who is attending or has attended any post-secondary institution but has not yet completed a four-year bachelor’s degree. If you are planning to enroll at any college or university before attending the UW, even if it is for one term only, you will be considered an international transfer applicant. OR A student who has completed or will complete a four-year bachelor’s degree considered equivalent to a U.S. bachelor’s degree prior to enrolling at UW Bothell. Find out how to apply as a Transfer or Post-Baccalaureate international student International Graduate Students International students interested to study in a UW Bothell Graduate program should contact the program directly for admissions assistance. You can also contact UW Bothell's Center for International Education for guidance about application or immigration matters. Find out more about applying as an international graduate student Scholarships International students currently enrolled at UW Bothell have access to limited institutional funding options such as merit based scholarships, general scholarships open to all UW Bothell students, grants that support various student experiences, and on-campus employment. Explore Scholarships "Before coming to UW Bothell, I never met someone from Cambodia or Tanzania or Albania, but that’s what makes college great...Constantly being around different types of people has challenged me and allowed me to grow as a person. Studying and making friends with people from different cultures has given me wonderful experiences not only in class, but also in my daily life." - Sabira Kaherman, Class of 2019 B.S. in Biology, International Transfer Student University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Division of Enrollment Management Box 358500 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5000 Fax: 425.352.5455 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbinfo@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us