Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Alumni Recruiters Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Carroll School? Diversity & Inclusion Diversity News Accreditation Board of Advisors Faculty Openings Visit Contact Related Links About Boston College Maps & Directions BC News Undergraduate Overview Academics Advising Peer Advisors Staff Advisors Concentrations Minors The Kevin Eidt Memorial Scholarship Career Accelerator Summer Management Catalyst Program Portico Careers Social Media CSOM Undergraduate Career Resources Placement Data Career Accelerator Study Abroad Community & Student Life FAQ CSOM Undergrad FAQs: COVID-19 Mar 13: Letter From Undergraduate Dean's Office Mar 20: Registration and Advising Updates Contact Graduate Overview Admission Visits and Events Tuition and Aid O’Brien Fellowship Graduate Admission FAQ International Applicants Information for U.S. Military MBA Programs Full-Time MBA Part-Time MBA Data Analytics Sequence Electives Applied Learning BC MBA Ambassadors M.S. Programs M.S. in Finance M.S. in Accounting Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Community & Student Life Living in Boston Career Development Faculty Overview Faculty Directory Part-Time Faculty Faculty Expertise Departments Overview Concentrations Academics Accounting Undergraduate Concentrations Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Business Analytics Concentration & Academics Careers Seminar Series Message From the Chairperson Business Law & Society Finance Academics and Study Abroad F22 Registration Info Faculty Ph.D. Program Seminar Series Job Market Candidates Message From the Chairperson Information Systems Concentration & Academics Message From the Chairperson Seminar Series Management & Organization Concentration & Academics Seminar Series Careers Message From the Chairperson Marketing Concentration & Academics Careers Awards and Appointments Faculty Message From the Chairperson Fall 2022 Registration Centers Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Carroll School Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Alumni Recruiters BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Organization Studies Ph.D. Programs Ph.D. in Accounting Ph.D. in Finance Ph.D. in Organization Studies Ph.D. in Organization Studies Designed to prepare students for academic careers, the Ph.D. Program in Organization Studies at Boston College is recognized worldwide for its rigorous curriculum and exceptional faculty who are leaders in their fields. The program emphasizes a strong foundation in organizational theory, research methods, and statistics. Students begin the program with a set of complementary courses in micro- and macro-organizational theory, qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistics, and teaching skills. In the third year, students complete a major empirical research project and teach a course of their own. Throughout the Ph.D. program, students pursue research on their own and in collaboration with faculty. All students are encouraged to deliver papers at national and international professional conferences, as well as to submit articles for publication in top-tier research journals. Our graduates emerge as creative, independent scholars who can craft and pursue their own research agendas. Learn More About Our Students APPLY Inquire Fall 2022 Application Deadline The deadline to apply for the Ph.D. in Organization Studies program is January 4, 2022. Questions? Email Graduate Admissions. Academic Program Class Profiles Career Placement COURSEWORK Ph.D. students take a total of 15 credit hours during the program that includes both 7- and 14-week courses. All students begin the organization studies program with a set of foundational courses in organizational behavior and organizational theory, qualitative and quantitative research methods, statistics, research, and teaching skills. COMPREHENSIVE EXAMINATION The comprehensive examination is given at the end of the second year. To pass the exam, students must demonstrate a substantial knowledge of theory and methods involved in the study of organizational behavior and theory. RESEARCH PROJECT AND DISSERTATION By the end of the third year, students complete a research paper demonstrating the ability to conduct innovative research in organizational studies. The culmination of the program is the dissertation: a substantial, significant, and original contribution to the body of knowledge in organizational studies that is prepared under the guidance of a dissertation committee of three faculty members. ASSISTANTSHIP REQUIREMENT Doctoral students at the Carroll School are expected to serve as research or teaching assistants throughout their studies. Typically, students work as research assistants for 15 hours a week during the first year of the program, serve as teaching assistants during both semesters of the second year, teach their own courses for one semester in the third year, and serve as research assistants for the remaining third through fifth years. In exchange, the Carroll School provides financial support for doctoral students in the form of a stipend and tuition remission. Sample Schedule YEAR 1: FALL Organizational Behavior Statistics I Quantitative Research Methods Research in the Community YEAR 1: SPRING Statistics II Flexible Core Elective YEAR 1: SUMMER Independent Research YEAR 2: FALL Organizational Theory Qualitative Research Methods Flexible Core Elective YEAR 2: SPRING Skills Core (Research I)* Skills Core (Teaching)* Elective YEAR 2: SUMMER Independent Research YEAR 3: FALL Independent Research Flexible Core or Elective* YEAR 3: SPRING Skills Core (Research II)* YEAR 3: SUMMER Dissertation Research YEARS 4 & 5 Dissertation Research and Defense *Refers to courses typically taught in 7 weeks. Electives may be taken from other departments and universities, subject to approval. Note: The following information reflects data for the entering classes of 2016–2021. CLASS SIZE 2015 Class Size 2 2016 Class Size 4 2017 Class Size 1 2018 Class Size 3 2019 Class Size 3 2020 Class Size 1 2021 Class Size 4 Overall Selectivity 6.8% ACADEMIC AND PROFESSIONAL PROFILE Average GMAT Score 710 GMAT 80th Percentile Range 690-710 Average GRE Score 314 GRE 80th Percentile Range 315-327 Average Undergraduate GPA 3.46 Average Full-Time Work Experience 5.6 years Students Holding Master's Degree 75% Diversity Average Age 29 Women 40% International Students 13% International Enrollments Canada China France Italy Pakistan South Korea When it comes to career advancement, graduates of Boston College’s Ph.D. Program in Organization Studies have several distinct advantages. Not only does the Ph.D. program instill the knowledge and skills required to conduct high-quality research and teaching in the field, the Management and Organization Department takes an active role in connecting students with exceptional academic career opportunities. Our students and recent graduates are prolific scholars and writers, publishing regularly in top management and organization outlets such as Academy of Management Annals, Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Administrative Science Quarterly, Advances in Strategic Management, Human Relations, Journal of Applied Psychology, Journal of Organizational Behavior, Organization Science, Organizational Psychology Review, Strategy Science, Research in the Sociology of Work, and Research in the Sociology of Organizations. They also have contributed articles to numerous other publications and chapters to books. Meet Our Students Learn more about current Ph.D. in Organization Studies candidates. Where do our graduates work? Babson College Boston University EDHEC Business School (France) Harvard University IESE Business School (Spain) Kookmin University (South Korea) Loyola University New Orleans New York University Northeastern University United States Coast Guard Academy University of Kentucky University of Maryland University of Massachusetts Amherst University of Massachusetts Boston University of Michigan University of Western Ontario (Canada) University of Virginia Western Michigan University Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania Yonsei University (South Korea) Management & Organization Faculty View More View Less Back To Top Back To Top Carroll School of Management Fulton Hall Boston College 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3809 About the Carroll School Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Centers Contact Accreditation Apply Visit Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College