Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Student Affairs Menu Main Nav Student Affairs Contact Back Back Close About Overview Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Involuntary Leave of Absence Policy Communication Updates Related Links Mission and Ministry Student Services Departments & Programs Overview BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Center for Student Wellness Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women's Center Related Links Assessment Program Eagle Path Cross Currents Seminars Divisional Committees Mission and Ministry Student Services How Can We Help You? Events Overview Weeks of Welcome 2021 Community Webinar FAQs Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Division of Student Affairs Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Contact & Hours Home About Contact & Hours About Meet Shawna Cooper Whitehead Contact & Hours Meet Our Staff Student Affairs Policies Communication Updates Contact Student Affairs Boston College, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs 21 Campanella Way Maloney Hall, Room 412 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467-3859 Phone: 617-552-3280 Fax: 617-552-4087 Email: bcsa@bc.edu Web: www.bc.edu/vpsa Hours Directions Parking Dr. Shawna Cooper-Gibson will be holding open office hours most Fridays, from 3:00-5:00 p.m. Spring Semester Dates: March: 11, 18, 25 April: 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 May: 6, 13, 20 Directions to Maloney Hall: Maloney Hall is located on 21 Campanella Way, next to Conte Forum and across from the Margot Connell Recreation Center. Parking on Campus Despite our name, Boston College is located in the Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Newton, Massachusetts. Our campus is approximately six miles west of downtown Boston. Therefore, it is important that you put the correct town and/or zip code when you are entering our address into GPS navigation or Google Maps. Once you have parked, please remember to take your parking ticket with you so that a member of our staff can validate your parking ticket. For the Beacon Street Garage: Use the intersection of Beacon and Chestnut Hill Drive, Brighton, MA 02135. Head away from the reservoir (west) on Beacon Street and the Beacon Street garage will be on your right. map it>> For the Commonwealth Garage: Use the intersection of St. Thomas More Road and Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467. From St. Thomas More Road, take Campanella Way to the Commonwealth Avenue Garage. map it>> For the Main Gate: Use 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA. Please note that parking is extremely limited on Middle Campus. We strongly encourage you to park in one of the two parking garages. Visitor Parking Instructions Come Visit Division of Student Affairs 21 Campanella Way Maloney Hall, Room 412 Back To Top Back To Top Division of Student Affairs Maloney Hall, 4th Floor 617-552-8600 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College