Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Department of Mathematics Ph.D. Alumni *Return to Main Menu* [1930] [1940] [1950] [1960] [1970] [1980] [1990] [2000] [2010] [2020] Ph.D. Recipient Thesis Title Advisor 1929 Sedgewick, Rose Whelan Approximate solutions of certain general types of boundary value problems from the standpoint of integral equations Jacob David Tamarkin 1930 Jonah, Frederick Chapman The Green's matrix and expansion problem for systems of integro-differential equations Jacob David Tamarkin Lehmer, Derrick Henry An extended theory of Lucas' functions Jacob David Tamarkin 1931 Parker, William Vann The addition formulas for hyperelliptic functions Albert Bennett 1932 Krall, Harry Levern On some asymptotic relations for the characteristic values of the elliptic differential equations Jacob David Tamarkin Moskovitz, David Certain irregular non-homogeneous linear difference equations C. Raymond Adams Moursund, Andrew Fleming, Jr. On a method of summation of Fourier series Jacob David Tamarkin Smith, Aubrey Henderson On the summability of derived series of the Fourier-Lebesgue type Jacob David Tamarkin Vehse, Charles Henry Acceleration stresses in a heavy wire rope Jacob David Tamarkin 1934 Clarkson, James Andrew Part I. On definitions of bounded variation for functions of two variables Part II. On double Riemann-Stieltjes integrals C. Raymond Adams Gurney, Margaret Some general existence theorems for partial differential equations of hyperbolic type Jacob David Tamarkin Randels, William Conrad Part I. On the summation of Fourier series Part II. Three examples in the theory of Fourier series Jacob David Tamarkin Sedgewick, Charles Hill Wallace Generalized Lambert series Jacob David Tamarkin Rosskopf, Myron Frederick Some inequalities for non-uniformly bounded ortho-normal polynomials, Jacob David Tamarkin 1935 Astrachan, Max Studies in the summability of Fourier series by Norlund means Jacob David Tamarkin 1936 Comfort, Edwin Gustavus Hunter On the preservation of Holder properties of initial conditions in the solutions of wave equations Jacob David Tamarkin Dunford, Nelson Part I. Integration in general analysis Part II. On a theorem of Plessner Part III. A particular sequence of step functions Jacob David Tamarkin Hamilton, Hugh James Part I. On transformations of double series Part II. Transformations of multiple sequences C. Raymond Adams Hill, John Dillard Part I. Some theorems on double limits Part II. A theorem in the theory of summability Part III. On perfect methods of summability C. Raymond Adams Jacob David Tamarkin Kales, Morris Leon Tauberian theorems related to Borel and Abel summabillity Jacob David Tamarkin Quade, Edward Schaumberg Part I. The category of the class Li (a, p) Part II. A generalized Parseval's relation Part III. A note on Lipschitz classes Part IV. Trigonometric approximation in the mean Jacob David Tamarkin 1937 Morse, Anthony Perry Convergence in variation and related topics C. Raymond Adams 1939 Day, Mahlon March Part I. Regularity of function-to-function transformations Part II. Operations in Banach spaces C. Raymond Admas Bernstein, Dorothy Lewis The double Laplace integral Jacob David Tamarkin O'Brien, Katharine Elizabeth Some problems in interpolation by characteristic functions of linear differential systems of the fourth order Jacob David Tamarkin Torrance, Esther McCormick Superposition of monotomic functions Jacob David Tamarkin 1940 Royall, Norman Norris, Jr. Laplace transforms of multiply monotomic functions Jacob David Tamarkin 1941 Forsythe, George Elmer Part I. Riesz summability methods of order r, for R(r) < 0 Part II. Cesaro summability of independent random variables Jacob David Tamarkin William Feller Eberhart, Paul On the summation of derived series of Fourier series and conjugate series Jacob David Tamarkin Schmidt, Olaf Henrik On the relation between ancient mathematics and spherical astronomy Otto Edward Neugebauer 1942 Hedge, Lafayette Boyd Part I. Moment problem for a bounded region Part II. Transformations of multiple Fourier series Jacob David Tamarkin 1943 Beesley, Edward Maurice Part I. Concerning total differentiability of functions of class P Part II. f-Cantorian functions and their convex moduli C. Raymond Adams Anthony. P. Morse Eberhart, Paul On the summation of derived series of Fourier series and conjugate series Jacob David Tamarkin Schmidt, Olaf Henrik On the relation between ancient mathematics and spherical astronomy Otto Edward Neugebauer 1945 Diaz, Joaquin Basilio On a class of partial differential equations of even order Lipman Bers Munroe, MarsPeter Hall Evans On certain generalizations of the fundamental theorem of integral calculus C. Raymond Adams 1946 Greenberg, Herbert Julius The Determination of Upper and Lower Bounds for the Solution of the Dirichlet Problem William Prager Handelman, George Herman Part I. Some problems in the study of thin-walled plastic sections Part II. Aerodynamic pursuit curves for overhead attacks William Prager Kincaid, Wilfred MacDonald Part I. On non-cut sets of locally connected continua Part II. An application of orthogonal moments to prolems in statically indeterminate structures Part III. Numerical methods for finding the characteristic roots and vectors of matrices Peter Hall William Feller Protter, Murray Harold Generalized spherical harmonics Lipman Bers Tolsted, Elmer Beaumont Limiting values of subharmonic functions Jacob David Tamarkin Western, Donald Ward Inequalities of the Markoff and Bernstein type for integral norms Paul Charles Rosenbloom Jacob David Tamarkin Antoni Zygmund 1947 Epstein, Bernard A method for the solution of the Dirichlet problem for certain types of domains Maurice Heins Shu, Shien-Siu The method of successive approximations as applied to compressible flow problems Paul G. Loewner Wilansky, Albert An application of Banach linear functionals to summability C. Raymond Adams 1949 Freilich, Gerald On the measure of Cartesian product sets Herbert Federer Sholander, Marlow C. On the existenxe of the inverse operation in alternation groupoids On certain minimum problems in the theory of convex curves Albert Bennett C. Raymond Adams 1950 Arsove, Maynard G. Functions representable as differences of subharmonic functions Maurice Heins Moore, Edward F. Part I. Convexly generated k-dimensional measures Part II. Density ratios and (phi - 1)-rectifiability in n-space Herbert Federer Schmied, Robert W. Limiting forms of Green's functions and Harnack's inequality for multiply connected plane regions unknown 1951 Clarke, Allen B. On the representations of cardinal algebras by direct sums Bjarnu Jonsson Wagner, Daniel H. On free products of groups Bjarnu Jonsson Herbert Federer 1952 Moore, John C. Some applications of homology theory to homotopy problems George W. Whitehead Schatz, Joseph A. Representations of Banach algebras with an involution Charles E. Rickart 1953 Tompson, Robert N. Areas of k-dimensional nonparametric surfaces in (k + 2)-space Herbert Federer 1954 Wolk, Elliot S. Representations of topological algebras R. Creighton Buck 1955 Palermo, Frank P. Cohomology rings of product complex William S. Massey Smith, Edgar C., Jr. Higher degrees of distributivity and completeness in Boolean algebras Alfred Tarski Bjarnu Jonsson 1956 Slepian, Paul The theory of the Lebesgue area of continuous maps of 2-manifolds into n-space; The Lebesgue area of a doubled map Herbert Federer 1957 Demers, Maurice R. On Lebesgue area Herbert Federer Lewis, Charles J. The problem of Milloux for functions analytic in an open annulus Maurice Heins 1958 Stockton, Doris G. S. (Mrs.) Singular parabolic partial differential equations with time dependent coefficients Joanne Elliot 1959 Eisenberg, Edmund Aggregation of utility functions David Gale LightPeter Hall, Harry, Jr. A study of a model of multi-commodity dynamic economy David Gale Malm, Donald G. On the cohomology ring of a sphere bundle William S. Massey 1960 Kamowitz, Herbert M. Cohomology groups of commutative Banach algebra John Wermer Lundell, Albert T. Obstruction theory of principal fiber bundles William S. Massey Mitchell, Barry M. Homological tic tac toe David Buchsbaum 1961 Ziemer, William P. Integral currents mod 2 Wendell H. Fleming 1962 Almgren, Frederick J., Jr. The homotopy groups of the integral cycle groups Herbert Federer Voichick, Michael Closed ideals and closed invariant subsplaces of analytic functions John Wermer 1963 Roberts, Howard M. On the dual Pontrjagin classes of a manifold William S. Massey Tyndall, William F. A duality theorem for a class of continuous linear programming problems David Gale 1964 Brothers, John E. Integral geometry in homogeneous spaces Herbert Federer Kumpel, Paul G., Jr. On the homotopy groups of the exceptional Lie groups Bruno Harris Ruh, Ernst A. On the automorphism groups of a G-structure Katsumi Nomizu 1965 Howard, Alan On the homotopy groups of an affine algebraic hypersurface Theodore Frankel O'Neill, Bernard V., Jr. Parts and one-dimensional analytic spaces John Wermer Ramanuja, Srinivasa An application of Morse theory to certain symmetric spaces Theodore Frankel Richardson, Henry R., III Regression analysis when the least-squares estimate is not asymptotically efficient Murray Rosenblatt 1966 Arnold, Leslie K. On finite invariant measures Yuji Ito Lewowicz, Jorge On relative invariant sets Mauricio Peixoto Smyth, Brian B. Differential geometry of complex hypersurfaces Katsumi Nomizu Norvig, Torsten A convergence theorem for linear economic exchange models David Gale 1967 Bell, David Poincare series representations of automorphic forms Lipman Bers Drachman, Byron C. Homotopy multiplicities Allan H. Clark Jonah, David W. Cohomology of co-algebras George F. Leger Sutherland, William R. S. On optimal development programs when future utility is discounted David Gale 1968 Allard, William K. On boundary regularity for the Plateau problem Wendell H. Fleming Brennan, James E. Point evaluations and invariant subspaces John Wermer Hallstrom, Alfred P. Bounded point derivations and other topics concerning rational approximation Andrew Browder Leonard, Peter C. G-structures on spheres Bruno Harris Ryan, Patrick J. Homogeneity and some curvature conditions for hypersurfaces Katsumi Nomizu 1969 Grove, Edward A. SO(n) actions on differentiable manifolds with vanishing first and second integral Pontrjagin classes Wu-Yi Hsiang Kiley, William T Automorphism groups on compact Riemann surfaces Robert D. M. Accola Markoe, Andrew G. New techniques in deformation of complex structures Gabriel Stolzenberg Rosenberg, Alan E. On the semi-simplilcity of the group algebra Michael I. Rosen Tannenwald, Ronald M. Generic properties of dynamical systems on open manifolds Mauricio Peixoto 1970 Abe, Kinetsu Relative curvature and applications to submanifolds in space firms Katsumi Nomizu Derrig, Richard A. C*-algebras of multipliers and operators induced by measure-preserving transformations Yiji Ito Erbacher, Joseph A. Isometric immersions of Riemannian manifolds into space forms Katsumi Nomizu Ernst, Lawrence R. A proof that C2 and T2 are distinct measures and a characterization of certain Cartesian product measure by invariance Herbert Federer Tillman, Stephen J. On quadratic forms over a certain class of function fields Michael I. Rosen Weiss, Michael D. Restricted topological entropy and its application to problems in ergodic theory Yuji Ito 1971 Ewing, John H. On the type of associate H-spaces Allan H. Clark Fraser, David F. Rates of convergence for a probabilistic solution to the Dirichlet problem Stanley Sawyer Hardt, Robert M. Slicing and intersection theory for chains associated with real analytic varieties Herbert Federer Preskenis, Kenneth J. Approximation on disks Andrew Browder Stodghill, Jack R. On the Adams operators and exterior powers of a simple Lie algebra Bruno Harris Warfield, Virginia P. A stochastic maximum principle Wendell H. Fleming 1972 Basener, Richard F. On rationally convex hulls John Wermer Brandstein, Alfred G. Function spaces related to hypo-Dirichlet algebras John Wermer Galovich, Steven P. Nibs and pics Michael I. Rosen O'Connell, John M. F. Real parts of uniform algebras John Wermer 1973 Bond, Robert J. When does the Galois group determine the field; the function field class Michael I. Rosen Cecil, Thomas E. Geometric applicsations of critical point theory to submanifolds, complex projective space and hyperbolic space Katsumi Nomizu Chen, Chi-Cheng On the residues of meromorphic vector fields Paul Baum Costa, David G. The uniform behavior of solutions of linear hyperbolic systems for large times Walter A. Strauss Cox, Lawrence H. One-parameter formal A-modules over p-adic integer rings Jonathan D. Lubin O'Farrell, Anthony G. Capacities in uniform approximation Brian Cole Rodrigues, Lucio Relative tightness and the two-piece property for manifolds with boundary Thomas F. Banchoff Wolf, Joel L. The cohomology of homogeneous spaces and related topics Paul Baum 1974 Dippolito, Paul R. Quasibundles in codimension one foliations Robert D. MacPherson Wang, James Li-Ming An approximate Taylor's theorem for R(X) Andrew Browder Perla-Menzala, Gustavo On the inverse problem for three-dimensional potential scattering Walter A. Strauss 1975 Mitchell, Alan R. Meromorphic vector fields and Atiyah characteristic classes in topology Paul Baum 1976 Goresky, R. Mark Geometric cohomology and homology of stratified objects Robert D. MacPherson Johnson, Kent W. Immersion and embedding of projective varieties William E. Fulton Kelmanson, Milton L. Stochastic approximation algorithms for the sequential Monte Carlo optimization of stochastic systems Harold J. Kushner Lin, Jeng-Eng Time decay of two conservative equations Walter A. Strauss Wolf, Edwin M. Bounded point evaluations and smoothness properties of functions in RP(X) Andrew Browder 1977 Graves, Larry K. Codimension one isometric immersions between Lorentz spaces Katsumi Nomizu Jones, Jeffrey P. Generators of the disk algebra John Wermer Lima, Paulo Hopf bifurcation in equations with infinite delays Harold J. Kushner Polansky, Paul J. Multi-dimensional stochastic population models Wendell H. Fleming Quart, George J. A fixed point formula for singular varieties William E. Fulton Young, Christopher A. Function rings of algebraic varieties Alan Landman Zamlong, Stuart The extension of Milnor's exact sequence of Witt rings for hyperelliptic curves and the co-kernel of for special hyperelliptic curves Michael I. Rosen 1978 Cornell, Gary Genus fields and class groups of number fields Michael I. Rosen Harrop, Frederick F. Nilradicals of Witt rings of certain classes of Dedekind domain Michael I. Rosen Magid, Martin A. Isometric immersions between indefinite flat spaces with parallel second fundamental forms Katsumi Nomizu 1979 Hwang-Ma, Shu-Yin A nilpotent generalization of the Jacobian variety of a compact Riemann surface Bruno Harris Lee, Hsuan-Pei Orthogonal measures for subsets of the boundary of the ball in C2 John Wermer Shakiban, Chehrzad The Euler operation in the formal calculus of variation Wendell H. Fleming Stormes, James M. A natural transformation K * KO analogous to the Bockstein homomorphism Paul Baum Wake, Robert A. The Tate-Shafarevich group for an elliptic curve Jonathan D. Lubin 1980 Anderson, Stephen L. Green's functions, Jensen measures, and bounded point evaluations John Wermer Damiano, David B. Webs, Abelian equations, and characteristic classes Robert D. MacPherson Hansen, Johan P. A connectedness theorem for flagmanifolds and Grassmannians and singularities of morphisms to Pm William E. Fulton Lazarsfeld, Robert K. Branched coverings of projective space William E. Fulton McNertney, Louise V. (Mrs. Berard) One-parameter families of surfaces with constant curvature in Lorentz 3-space Thomas F. Banchoff Mitchell, Kevin J. Foldings and crimpings of algebraic varieties Alan Landman 1981 Keller, Clayton H., Jr. Automorphisms of stationery solutions of semilinear wave equations Walter A. Strauss Scheim, Charles H., Jr. Automorphisms of compact Riemann surfaces Robert D. M. Accola Wolper, James S. Theta functions and automorphisms of Riemann surfaces Robert D. M. Accola 1982 Diaz, Steven Exceptional Weierstrass points and the divisor on moduli space that they define Joseph Harris Haskell, Peter E. Intrinsically defined cycles in the K homology of singular curves Paul Baum Horowitz, Tony Varieties of low relative degree Joseph Harris Klapper, Andrew Canonical Subgroups of Formal Groups of Arbitrary Dimension. Jonathan Lubin Liao, Yu-Chung Optimal control of a Brownian motion and its approximation to queuing process Wendell H. Fleming McGuinness, Francis Oisin The Cassels pairing in a family of elliptic curves Jonathan D. Lubin Richters, Stephen Hp spaces in tubes and the representation of tempered disributions by holomorphic functions Andrew Browder Tabak, Barbara L. Harmonic maps and foliations Bruno Harris 1983 Hill-Tout, Barry A Local Euler invariant for real algebraic singularities Clint G. McCrory Keem, Changho A remark on the variety of special linear systems on an algebraic curve Joseph Harris Khavinson, Dmitry S. On a geometric approach to problems concerning Cauchy integrals and rational approximation John Wermer Migliore, Juan C. Topics in the theory of liaison of space curves Joseph Harris Sheu, Shuenn-Jyi Optimal control and its applications to large deviation theory Wendell H. Fleming Vilonen, Kari Intersection homology D-modules on hypersurfaces with isolated singularities Robert D. MacPherson 1984 Blomstrom, Carol Extrinsically symmetric and planar geodesic isometric immersions in pseudo-Riemannian space forms Katsumi Nomizu Dorman, David Prime factorization of singular moduli Benedict H. Gross Ryan, Kevin Schubert varieties in the flag manifold of SO(n, C) Robert D. MacPherson Spyropoulos, Konstantine Certain Diophantine equations of degree three and four Michael I. Rosen 1985 Shepard, Allen D. A cellular description of the derived category of a stratified space Robert D. MacPherson Zimmermann, Karl Subgroups of generic formal groups Jonathan D. Lubin 1986 Anderson, John Algebras of solutions to partial differential equations John Wermer Coghlan, C. Leslie Tight stable mappings of surfaces Thomas F. Banchoff Deutsch, Jesse I. Identities on modular forms in several variables derivable from Hecke transformations Harvey Cohn (Cuny) Michael I. Rosen Freije, Richard M. Intersection formulae and volume calculations for Mumford curves Beneduct H. Gross Garrity, Thomas On ample vector bundles and negative curvature William E. Fulton Napolitano, Margaret Higher dimensional formal groups and the formal group of the Jacobian Michael I. Rosen O'Grady, Kieran Moduli of abelian and K3 surfaces Joseph Harris Schwalbe, Daniel K-theory for discrete subgroups of the Lorentz group Paul Baum 1987 Aluffi, Paolo On some characteristic numbers for smooth plane curves William E. Fulton Cukierman, Fernando M. Families of Weierstrass points Joseph Harris McConnell, Mark W. Projective configurations and locally symmetric spaces associated to SL(n,R) Robert D. MacPherson Ulmer, Douglas L. The arithmetic of universal elliptic modular curves Benedict H. Gross 1988 Buyske, Steven G. Lie sphere transformations and the focal sets of hypersurfaces Katsumi Nomizu Curtin, Eugene Intermediate tautness and relative tautness for submanifolds Thomas F. Banchoff Faucette, William M. Harmonic volume, symmetric products, and the Abel-Jacobi map Bruno Harris Hanamura, Masaki Motives of perverse sheaves Robert D. MacPherson Kerckhove, Michael G. Conformal transformations of pseudo-Riemannian Einstein manifolds Katsumi Nomizu Lopez, Angelo On the Picard group of projective surfaces Joseph Harris Solomon, David R. On Lichtenbaum's conjecture in the case of number fields Ted C. Chinburg 1989 Friesen, Christian Continued fractions and real quadratic function fields Michael I. Rosen Kuwata, Masato Mordell-Weil groups and elliptic K3 surfaces Joseph H. Silverman Loe, Brian J. Scattering by potentials of unbounded support Walter A. Strauss McLaughlin, Dennis String structures on loop space Jean-Luc Brylinski Zamboni, Luca A Chern character in cyclic homology Jean-Luc Brylinski 1990 Hironaka, Eriko Abelian coverings of CP2 branched along configurations of real lines Alan Landman Johnson, Ockle E. Chain level Whitney duality theorems for simplicial manifolds Thomas F. Banchoff Park, Hwasin Idempotent relations and the conjecture of Birch- and Swinnerton-Dyer Joseph H Silverman 1991 Baragar, Arthur The Markoff equation and equations of Hurwitz Joseph H. Silverman Chang, Xiang-Qian Weighted norm equality for martingales Andrew Browder Donohoe, William A. Generalized Castelnuovo inequalities Robert D. M. Accola Huang, Ying Floquet theory for linear periodic differential delay equations John Mallet-Paret Johnson, Brenda The derivatives of homotopy theory Thomas G. Goodwillie 1992 Crannell, Annalisa The existence of many periodic non-travelling solutions to the Boussinesq equation Walter Craig Lieman, Daniel Bennett Automorphic forms and cubic twists of elliptic curves Jeffrey Hoffstein Shu, Linghsueh Cyclotomic type theorems over global function fields Michael I. Rosen 1993 Arone, Gregory Zvi The Taylor tower of the stable homotopy of the mapping spaces Thomas G. Goodwillie Cai, Hongsheng Dispersive smoothing effects for generalized and high order KdV type Equations Walter Craig Cervone, Davide P. Vertex-minimal simplicial immersion of surfaces into three-space Thomas F. Banchoff Chen, Yen-Mei Julia Descent via 3-isogenies on elliptic curves Joseph H. Silverman Chua, Seng-Kiat Arithmetic of etale quotient varieties Joseph H. Silverman Guo, Yan Boundary problems for the Vlasov-Maxwell system Walter A. Strauss Lee, Chaujun Isaac Generalized affine rotation surfaces Katsumi Namizu Lim, Nancy Lee The Lp Dirichlet problem for second order elliptic operators with nonsmooth coefficients Jill C. Pipher Lydakis, Manos George Fixed point problems, equivariant stable homotopy, and a trace map for the algebraic K-theory of a point Thomas G. Goodwillie Meng, Guo-wu The stability theorem for smooth concordance imbeddings Thomas G. Goodwillie Sauerberg, James John Kummer theory for Lubin-Tate groups Michael I. Rosen Towse, Christopher Weierstrass points on cyclic covers of the projective line Joseph H. Silverman 1994 Choksi, Rustum Two Topics on the Equations of Solid Mechanics: The Incompressible Limit in Nonlinear Elasticity and Conservations Laws in Fibre-Reinforced Materials Constantine Dafermos Gorman, John Rober L-Functions of Orders at Zero Stephen Lichtenbaum Hsia, Liang-chung A weak Neron model with applications to p-adic dynamical systems Joseph H. Silverman Li, Hua-chieh p-adic dynamical systems Michael I. Rosen Liu, Yue Instability of Solutions for Generalized Boussinesq Equations Walter A. Strauss Pagano, Andrea Analyticity of Bergman Isometries Kang-Tae Kim] Tsalidis, Stavros The equivariant structure of topological Hochschild homology and the topological cyclic homology of the integers Thomas G. Goodwillie Wang, Bin Archimedean Height Pairing Bruno Harris 1995 Dutta Gupta, Shamita Average Value of Quadratic Twists of L-Functions over Function Fields Jeffrey Hoffstein Geloneze-Neto, Antonio Cusp Parity and Generalized Riemann-Hurwitz Formulas for Simplicial Maps Thomas F. Banchoff Saccone, Scott Frank A Study of Strongly Tight Uniform Algebras Brian Cole She, Xiaotie On the Nonvanishing of Cubic Twists of Automorphic L-Series Jeffrey Hoffstein 1996 Andreano, Federica Approximation Problems For Singularity Sets John Wermer Li, Chao-Qun Zp-Extensions of Function Fields over Finite Fields Michael I. Rosen Menochi, Gisele Maria Vecchi Average Value of Class Numbers in Cyclic Extensions of F(T) Michael I. Rosen Ramachandran, Niranjan Mixed Motives of Schemes Stephen Lichtenbaum 1997 Levandosky, Steven Stability and Asymptotic Behavior of Higher Order Nonlinear Waves Walter Strauss Luo, Chenghui Numerical Invariants and Classification of Smooth and Polygonal Plane Curve Thomas F. Banchoff Rizzo, Ottavio On the Variation of Root Numbers of Families of Elliptic Curves Joseph H. Silverman Whittlesey, Marshall Analytic structure in polynomial hulls and singularity sets John Wermer Yang, Seong-deog On a connected sum construction for complete minimal surfaces of finite total curvature Nicolaos Kapouleas 1998 Benedetto Robert Fatou Components in p-adic Dynamics Joseph H. Silverman Chin, Bing Stabilization of a Sequence of Images Donald McClure Dreibelbis, Daniel A bitangency theorem for surfaces in Euclidean four-space Thomas Banchoff Holden, Joshua On the Fontaine-Mazur Conjecture for Number Fields and an Analogue for Function Fields Michael Rosen Hukovic, Sanja Bellman Functions and Singular Integrals in Weighted Spaces Jill Pipher Papanikolas, Matthew Canonical Heights in Characteristic p Joseph H. Silverman 1999 Benson, Julie Lynn Gain of Regularity for Nonlinear Dispersive Equations in Two Spatial Dimensions Walter Strauss Diaconu, Calin Adrian Applications of the double Dirichlet series to quartic twists Jeffrey Hoffstein Jamison, Danielle Lynn Local Hardy Spaces and Non-Linear Quantities Arising in the Theory of Compensated Compactness Jill Pipher Lee, Yoonjin Cohen-Lenstra Heuristics and the Spiegelungssatz Michael Rosen Zhao, Jianqiang Hopf Algebra Structure of Generalized Scissors Congruence Groups Alexander Goncharov 2000 Akhtar, Reza Milnor K-theory and Zero-Cycles on Algebraic Varieties Stephen Lichtenbaum Fridman, Artur Mixed Markov Fields David Mumford Getachew, Selemon Galois Theory of Polynomial Iterates Joseph H. Silverman Ih, Su Ion Height Uniformity for Algebraic and Integral Points on Curves Joseph H. Silverman Lepsky, Olga High Order Numerical Methods for Nonlinear Hamilton-Jacobi Equations and Approximations to Solutions of Stationary Boundary Chi-Wang Shu Muscalu, Camil LP Estimates for Multilinear Operators Given by Singular Symbols Jill Pipher Reid, Michael Investigations into Gross' Generalized Class Number Formula and the p-adic Stark Conjecture Michael Rosen 2001 Sarkis, Ghassan Y. Dynamical Systems and Formal Groups Jonathan Lubin Wazir, Rania Arithmetic on Elliptic Threefolds Joseph H. Silverman 2002 Bekyel, Ebru Minimal Weierstrasse Equations for Elliptic Curves Over Global Fields Joseph H. Silverman Hwang, Huang Ju Rayleigh-Taylor Instability and Regularity for the Vlasov System Yan Guo Soule, Steve Thomas Branched Extensions of Codimemsion One Maps Thomas Banchoff Vassilakis, Theodore On A Conjecture of Bando-Siu Georgios Daskalopoulos 2003 Brubaker, Benjamin Brock Analytic Continuation for Cubic Multiple Dirichlet Series Jeffrey Hoffstein Jafari, Amir Framed Mixed Hodge Structures Associated to Iterated Integrals and Strong Suslin Reciprocity Laws on Curves Alexander Goncharov Lin, Zhiwu Stability and Instability of Equilibria in Collisionless Plasmas and Ideal Plane Flows Walter Strauss Munson, Brian Andrew Embeddings in the 3/4 Range Thomas G. Goodwillie Pacelli, Allison The Structure of the Class Group in Global Function Fields Michael I. Rosen Volic, Ismar Finite Type Knot Invariants and Calculus of Functors Thomas G. Goodwillie 2004 Christoforou, Cleopatra Christou Hyperbolic Systems of Balance Laws via Vanishing Viscosity Constantine Dafermos Horozov, Ivan Emilov Euler characteristics of arithmetic groups Alexander Goncharov Stephen Lichtenbaum Karageorgis, Paschalis Nonlinear Waves with Sign-changing Potentials Walter Strauss Leonard, Kathryn Elizabeth Measuring Shape Space: E-entropy, Adaptive Coding and Two-dimensional Shape David Mumford Wang, Qingxue Multiple polylogarithm motives and moduli spaces Mo, n Alexander Goncharov Stephen Lichtenbaum 2005 Acquista, Karen Elisa A generation of class field theory using motivic complexes Stephen Lichtenbaum Jones, Raphael Falk Galois Martingales and the Hyperbole Subset of the p-adic Mandelbrot Set Joseph H. Silverman Joyce, Michael Orin Rational Points on the E6 Cubic Surface Joseph H. Silverman Lauzon, Michael Peter Harmonic analysis for vector-valued functions Sergei Treil Walter, Benjamin, Charles Rational Homotopy Calculus of Functors Thomas G. Goodwillie Wick, Brett Duane Analytic Projections, The Geometry of Holomorphic Vector Bundles and Applications to the Corona Problem Sergei Treil 2006 Bucur, Alina Ioana On the Simultaneous Nonvanishing of Quadratic Twists of GL(2) L-series Over the Rational Function Field Jeffrey Hoffstein Quang, Minh Ha Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces in Learning Theory Jill Pipher Hur, Mikyoung Steady Water Waves with Vorticity Walter Strauss Jiang, Yongbin Weil-tale topology over local rings Stephen Lichtenbaum Wilkin, Graeme Peter An analytic Stratification of the Space of Higgs Georgios Daskalopoulos Xing, Yulong High order well-balance numerical schemes for hyperbolic systems with source terms Chi-Wang Shu 2007 Chen, Ming Analysis of some nonlinear dispersive waves in a compressible hyperelastic plate Walter Strauss Hutz, Benjamin Arithmetic Dynamics on Varieties of Dimension Greater than 1 Joseph H. Silverman Jang, Juhi Diffusive Expansion in Kinetic Theory and Dynamics of Gaseous Yan Guo King, Michael Cluster ensembles of Type An and the Canonical Map for Configuration Spaces Alexander Goncharov Manes, Michelle Arithmetic Dynamics of Rational Maps Joseph H. Silverman 2008 Kwon, Hyun-Kyoung Similarity of Operators and Geometry of Eigenvector Bundles Sergei Treil Miller, Stephen Francis The Calculus of Equivariant Spectra and a Classification of Degree 2 Endofunctors Thomas G. Goodwillie Stange, Katherine Elisabeth Elliptic Nets and Elliptic Curves Joseph H. Siilverman Wise, Jonathan Samuel Dennis The genus zero Gromov-Witten invariants of [Sym2 P2] and the enumerative geometry of hyperelliptic curves in P2 Dan Abramovich Yasufuku, Yu Vojta’s Conjecture and Blowups Joseph H. Silverman 2009 Katz, Daniel Jason Sumfree Subsets in Cubes of Arbitrary Dimension Joseph H. Silverman Liaw, Constanze Dong-Li Singular Integrals and Rank One Perturbations Sergei Treil Lin, Yu-Lin Perturbation Theorems for Hele-Shaw Flows and Their Applications Govind Menon Park, Donghoon 1-Motives with Torsion and Cartier Duality Stephen Lichtenbaum Tsikkou, Charis Hyperbolic Conservation Laws with Large Initial Data. Is the Cauchy Problem Well-Posed? BV Estimates for the P-System. Constantine Dafermos Ulfarsson, Henning Arnór Extending Grothendieck Topologies to diagram categories and Serre functors on diagam schemes Dan Abramovich 2010 Lee, Chong Gyu Height Estimates for Rational Maps Joseph H. Silverman Salikhov, Konstantin Multiple Points of Immersions Thomas G. Goodwillie 2011 Ben-Artzi, Jonathan Linear Instability of Nonmonotone Super Heated Plasmas Walter Strauss Chen, Qile Logarithmic Stable Maps to Deligne - Faltings Paris Dan Abramovich Chhita, Sunil Scaling Windows of Dimer Models Richard Kenyon Giansiracusa, Noah Birational Models from Rational Normal Curves Dan Abramovich Gokturk, Ali Comparison of Teichmuller Geodesics and Weil-Peterson Geodesics Jeffrey Brock Kim, Chanwoo Initial Boundry Value Problem of the Boltzmann Equation Yan Guo Li, Zhongyang Vertex Models Ising Models and Fisher Graph Richard Kenyon Ma, Xiaomin Discrepancy of Point Distributionin Two Dimensions and Appication of Quasi-Monte Carlo Method in Intehral Estimation Jill Pipher Marcus, Steffen Spaces of Stable Maps, Evaluation Spaces, and Polynomial Families of Tautological Classes Dan Abramovich Spencer, Matthew Parameter Spaces of Power Series in Finite Characteristic Joseph H. Silverman Xiao, Xiao Geometric-Arithmetic Averaging of Dyadic Weights, and Multi-Parametre Harmonic Analysis Jill Pipher Zhang, Xiangxiong Maximum-Princile-Satifying and Positivity-Preserving High Order Schemes for Conservation Laws Chi-Wang Shu 2012 Lin, Quahui On the Interactions of Dispersive Modes and Solition Dynamics Justin Holmer Sahinoglu, Hatice On the Independence of Heegner Points Joseph H. Silverman Wu, Yunhui Isometries on CAT (0) Spaces, Interation of Mapping Classes and Weil-Peterson Geometry Jeffrey Brock 2013 Anderson, Jacqueline P-Adic Analogues of the Mandelbrot Set Joseph H. Silverman Davis, Diana Cutting Sequences on Translation Surfaces Richard Schwartz Hong, Younghun Nonliniar Schoedinger Equations with Potentials Justin Holmer Hulse, Thomas Triple Shifted Sums of Automorphic L-Functions Jeffrey Hoffstein Lim, Li-Mei Multiple Dirchlet Series Associated to Prehomogeneous Spaces and the Relation with GL (3) Eisenstein Series Jeffrey Hoffstein Muthaih, Dinikar Double MV Cycles, Affine PBW Bases, and Crystal Combinatorics Alexander Braverman Sprung, Florian The Arithmetic of Elliptic Curves in Towers of Number Fields Joseph H. Silverman 2014 Kiral, Eren Mehmet Spectral Theory and Shifted Convolution Sums in Analytic Number Theory Jeffrey Hoffstein Kuan, Chan Ieong Hybrid Bounds on Twisted L-functions Associated to Modular Forms Jeffrey Hoffstein Leshin, Jonah Class Field Towers, Solvable Galois Representations and Noether's Problem in Galois Theory Joseph H. Silverman Minevich, Igor Cohomology of Topology Groups and Grothendieck Topologies Stephen Lichtenbaum Molcho, Samouil Logarithmic Stable Maps with Torus Actions Dan Abramovich Tassy, Martin Tiling by Bars Richard Kenyon Wheeler, Miles Large-Amplitude Solitary Water Waves with Vorticity and Surface Pressure Walter Strauss Wiygul, David Doubling Constructions with Asymmetric Sides Nicolaos Kapouleas 2015 Anderson, Theresa A frameworkk for Calderon-Zygmund singular integral operators on spaces of homogeneous type Jill Pipher Belulovich, Thomas Absolute Homotopy Limits Thomas G. Goodwillie Hindes, Wade Galois uniformity in airthmetic dinamics Joseph H. Silverman Lai, Jingguo Two weight problems and Bellman functions on filtered probability spaces Sergei Treil Ma, Ningning Tropicalization of the Dimer model Richard Kenyon Routis, Evangelos Weighted compa ctifications of configuration spaces Dan Abramovich Tran, Minh-Hoang Weil-Etale Cohomology and Special Values of L-Functions of 1-Motives Stephen Lichtenbaum Ulirsch, Martin Tropical geometry of logarithmic schemes Dan Abramovich Winter, Dale Mixing properties of flows on geometrically finite hyperbolic manifolds Hee Oh Wong, Wei Pin Height functions and the specialization map for families of elliptic curves Joseph H. Silverman 2016 Carter, Paul Fast Pulses with Oscillatory Tails in the FitzHugh--Nagumo System Bjorn Sandstede Culiuc, Amalia Weighted estimates of Calderon-Zygmund operators on vector-valued function spaces Sergei Treil Newkirk, Edward Billiards with Bombs Richard Schwartz Ou, Yumeng Multi-parameter commutators and new function spaces of bounded mean oscillation Jill Pipher 2017 Ascher, Kenneth Higher Dimensional Birational Geometry: Moduli and Arithmetic Dan Abramovich Chen, Xiaoshuang Duality Theorems and Special Value of Artin L-functions at Zero Stephen Lichtenbaum Healey, Vivian The Loewner Equation with Branching and the Continuum Random Tree Govin Menon Kim, Semin Harmonic Maps and the Moduli of Higgs Bundles George Daskalopoulos Le, Quang Nhat A Family of Projective Natural Polygon Iterations Richard Schwartz Liu, Chang Blow-Up For the 1D Nonlinear Schrodinger Equation With Point Nonlinearity Walter Strauss Lowry-Duda, David On Some Variants of the Gauss Circle Problem Jeffrey Hoffstein McGrath, Peter Existence and Uniqueness Results for Minimal Surfaces Nicolaos Kapouleas Ramassamy, Sanjay Topics in Combinatorics, From Probability to Geometry Richard Kenyon 2018 Bejleri, Dori A Tale of Two Moduli Spaces: Hilbert Schemes of Singular Curves and Moduli of Elliptic Surfaces Dan Abramovich Freidin, Brian Harmonic maps between and into singular spaces George Daskalopoulos Harper, Alicia Factorization of Deligne-Mumford Stacks Dan Abramovich Lai, Kuan-Wen Cremona Transformations and Rational Parametrizations Inspired by Hodge Theory Brendan Hassett Malik, Numann Dark Soliton Linearization of the 1D Gross-Pitaevskii Equation Justin Holmer Walker, Alexander Sums of FourierCoefficients of Modular Forms and the Gauss Circle Problem Jeffrey Hoffstein Walton, Laura Forward and Inverse Image Problems in Arithmetic Dynamics Joseph Silverman Yi, Ren Domain Exchange Transformations and Their Renormalizations Richard Schwartz 2019 Asgarli, Shamil Transversality for Algebraic Varieties Over Finite Fields Brendan Hassett Barron, Alexander Sparse Bounds in Harmonic Analysis and Semiperiodic Estimates Jill Pipher Crites, Elizabeth Delegatable Anonymous Credentials from Mercurial Signatures Anna Lysyanskaya Fang, Zhou Shifted Sums of Integral and Half-Integral Weights Cusp Forms Jeffrey Hoffstein Gras Andreu, Victoria Harmonic Maps between 2-Dimensional Simplicial Complexes George Daskalopoulos Gulian, Mamikon Discovering and Solving Fractional-Order Partial Differential Equations: Machine Learning and Monte Carlo Methods George Daskalopoulos Kim, Seoyoung The Distribution of the Trace of Frobenius and its Applications in Number Theory Joseph Silverman Li, Linhan $L^p$ Dirichlet Problems for Second Order Elliptic Operators Having BMOO Anti-Symmetric Part Jill Pipher Peterpaul, Cyrus Lifting Arc Diagrams under Branched Covers: An Inverse Problem and its Algorithmic Solution Jeremy Kahn Silverman, Thomas Stability in Non-archimedean Dynamics Joseph Silverman Solomon, Yitzchak Inverse Problems for Topological Transforms Jeffrey Brock Wang, Zili On Convex Polyhedra: Their Metric Properties and Moduli Spaces Richard Schwartz Weber, Ashley Hyperbolicity, Convexity, and Simplicial Embeddings of Graphs Associated to Surfaces Jeffrey Brock Zhang, Xufan Random systems with discrete parallel dynamics and their scaling limits. Richard Kenyon Zhu, Yuwei On Mumford's Construction of Abelian fourfolds Brendan Hassett 2020 George, Terrence Cluster Integrable Systems and Statistical Mechanics Richard Kenyon Inchiostro, Giovanni Wall-Crossing Morphisms for Moduli of Stable Pairs Dan Abramovich Kakaroumpas, Spyridon Sharp Weighted Estimates in Harmonic Analysis Sergei Treil Li, Xiang Raymond The Laplacian of Directed Planar Graphs Richard Kenyon Wang, Yuhan Incompressible Surfaces in Hyperbolic Four-Punctured Sphere Bundles Richard Schwartz Xiao, Yang On the Algebraic Aspects of Complex Hyperboli Jeffrey Brock Zhang, Zhiyuan Stability Problems in Fluids and Plasmas Walter Strauss 2021 Ivanov, Milen Truncation of Contact Defects in Reaction-Diffusion Systems Bjorn Sandstede Jiang, Peihong A Construction of Divergent Weil-Petersson Geodesic Rays with Common Filling Ending Lamination Jeffrey Brock Li, Ang Robustness of Planar Target Patterns Bjorn Sandstede McDonough, Alexander Higher-Dimensional Sandpile Groups and Matrix-Tree Multijection Caroline Klivans Ouyang, Zhimeng Some Topics in Kinetic and Dispersive PDEs Yan Guo Return to the top of the page Also in Department of Mathematics Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Research Seminars Courses Events Positions Available Diversity & Inclusion Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Mathematics Department of Mathematics Brown University Box 1917 151 Thayer Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2708 Fax: 401-863-9013 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat