Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Contact us Staff directory Events Office of Global Affairs Students Advising & events Find programs Resources Health & safety Pre-departure steps Credit conversion Faculty & Staff Program Directors Department chairs Administrators Advisers Departmental exchange coordinators Visiting Students Application Academics Practical matters About the UW FAQs Parents & family Emergency Log In UW login Non-UW login Accepting Applications UW Study Abroad Apply Now! Study Abroad Menu About Contact us Staff directory Events Office of Global Affairs Students Advising & events Find programs Resources Health & safety Pre-departure steps Credit conversion Faculty & Staff Program Directors Department chairs Administrators Advisers Departmental exchange coordinators Visiting Students Application Academics Practical matters About the UW FAQs Parents & family Emergency Log In UW login Non-UW login Home Study Abroad GET STARTED FIND PROGRAMS MONEY GET READY RESOURCES HEALTH & SAFETY COVID-19 updates and information We are cautiously optimistic that we will send students abroad during the 2021-2022 academic year, and we are working with experts at the UW and beyond to offer safe, academically rigorous programs. Review our COVID-19 page for more guidance and policies. More info Advising Appointments Students can meet with our advisers virtually to learn more about programs, costs, credits, and share their interests. Click on the link below to schedule an appointment in a just a few seconds. Schedule here Scholarships Scholarships can lower the cost of studying abroad, and there are many different types available. Browse our resources and connect with our scholarships advisor to get started. More Identity Abroad These resources and questions can help you think critically about your intersecting identities. We encourage you to consider them as you prepare to go abroad. More @uwstudyabroad on Instagram Events & Deadlines Contact us Office Hours: Mon – Thurs, 1pm – 4pm Telephone: +1-206-221-4404 Email: studyabroad@uw.edu Location: 459 Schmitz Hall, on the corner of NE Campus Parkway and 15th Avenue NE Staff Directory Share your story with us Use #globaldawgs and #uwstudyabroad! Study Abroad News UW Daily: How does study abroad work?Wolf Latsch, UW Study Abroad Director on navigating COVID-19 and tips on applying to go abroad Corbett Scholar Owen Oliver: An Indigenous Lens of UWAfter an exchange in Vancouver, Owen is working on a walking tour of UW Seattle, highlighting Indigenous presence. Global Inspirations: Oceanography in AustraliaA study abroad program paved the way for Isaiah Cuadras to apply his interest in fluid dynamics to ocean ecosystems. UW Daily:’Hair roots & heritage in Brazil’Ebsitu Hassen explores global concepts of blackness and identity in Salvador da Bahia More University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA