Information for Visitors - University of Houston Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Visitors Visitors Visitor Information The University of Houston welcomes visitors throughout the year. Take a tour of our gorgeous campus and listen to an admissions officer share what makes our campus a destination. UH houses one of the largest public art collections in the country and includes work by regional, national and international artists. Show your Cougar spirit as you watch one of our many athletics teams battle it out against the opponent. Or watch a concert or engage in a lecture at the Cullen Performance Hall. We even have on-campus accommodations at the Hilton Hotel. We look forward to your visit! Buy Tickets for On-Campus Performances Launch Experience Campus Information Located near the heart of Houston and in historic East End, our campus caters to visitors from around the world. Campus Map Parking Map Schedule a Visit Directions to Campus UH Libraries Welcome Center Take an Audio Walking Tour Take a Walking Art Tour Admissions Find Hotels in the Area Freedom of Expression Campus Destinations We are more than a university. We are home to performance halls, fine dining, and art galleries. Music Performances Theatre & Dance Athletics Blaffer Art Museum Bookstore Hilton University of Houston Eric's Restaurant Dining Services Buy Cougar Stuff Community Outreach Services Commited to Houston, we offer outreach programs to empower and service our community. Summer Camps Charter School Little Coogs Psychological Services Clinic Speech, Language & Hearing Clinic University Eye Institute, Community Vision Screening Resources for Businesses Find information for business partnerships. Purchasing/HUB Center for Industrial Partnerships Customized In-House Training/Corporate Training Solutions University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies