Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners About Us Degrees Admission People Students Our Work Happenings Friends & Giving Search Administration Faculty Staff Highlights About Us History Mission Accreditation Diversity Degrees Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Bachelor's Programs Online Programs Certificates Minors Degrees by Department Admission Undergraduate Graduate Financial Contact Us People Administration Faculty Staff Students Undergraduate Graduate International Students Organizations Job & Internship Openings Well-Being Our Work Research Centers Projects Institutes Outreach Resources Happenings News Events Publications Social Media Friends & Giving GIVE TO SEHD Alumni & Volunteers Community Partners SEHD Home SEHD Home SEHD News Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Department of Teaching and Learning Administration Faculty Staff Highlights About Us Listening Exercise Programs Communications History Contact Us Home People Faculty AAA Faculty Administration Faculty Staff Highlights Department of Educational and Psychological Studies Soyeon Ahn Professor s.ahn@miami.edu (305) 284-1316 Log in to view address Soyeon Ahn received her Ph.D. in Measurement and Quantitative Methods in the Department of Counseling, Educational Psychology and Special Education at Michigan State University in 2008. She joined the EPS faculty in August, 2008. Ahn’s current research focuses on the application of the existing data analytic techniques in resolving the... Read More > Dina Birman Professor d.birman@miami.edu (305) 284-3460 Log in to view address My interests and expertise focus on the process of acculturation and adjustment of immigrants and refugees, and community-based interventions designed to improve their mental health and well-being. I have conducted research and written extensively on acculturation and adaptation of adolescent, adult, and elderly refugees, including those from... Read More > Lydia Pearl Buki Assoc. Professor l.buki@miami.edu (305) 284-2230 Log in to view address Lydia P. Buki, Ph.D., is Associate Professor and Director of Training of the Counseling Psychology program. She earned her doctorate in Counseling Psychology from Arizona State University in 1995. She joined the University of Miami in January 2013, with previous appointments at the University of Illinois and Colorado State University.Dr.... Read More > Scotney D. Evans Assoc. Professor s.evans4@miami.edu (305) 284-4142 Log in to view address I am a community-engaged researcher working to understand and support the role of community-based organizations, networks, and coalitions in building collective power to promote community wellbeing, social change, and social justice. I utilize an action research approach with community partners in order to uncover injustice and build community... Read More > Blaine J Fowers Professor bfowers@miami.edu (305) 284-5261 Log in to view address Dr. Fowers used an Arsht Ethics Initiatives Distinguished Ethics Faculty Award (2011-12) to work on a book, The Evolution of Ethics: Human Sociality and the Emergence of Ethical Mindedness, published by Palgrave/Macmillan in April 2015. The book places cutting edge evolutionary theory in dialogue with Aristotle’s systematic and deep... Read More > Kimberly S Ho Misiaszek Asst. Professor Prof. Practice k.ho2@umiami.edu (305) 284-6212 Log in to view address Kimberly Ho Misiaszek is a licensed clinical psychologist in Florida, Maryland, and New York and is currently the Clinical Director of the Institute for Individual and Family Counseling and a Clinical Assistant Professor in the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies at the University of Miami. Dr. Ho Misiaszek completed her... Read More > Scott Ingold Assoc. Director, Enrollment Technology singold@miami.edu (305) 542-8226 Log in to view address Scott Ingold joined the University of Miami in 1990, and teaches in the School of Education’s Enrollment Management Program. He earned his Ed.D from Florida International University in curriculum and instruction, receiving the Dissertation of the Year Award from the Southern Association for College Student Affairs.Ingold’s... Read More > Willis Jones Assoc. Professor wxj149@miami.edu (305) 284-2929 Log in to view address Dr. Jones joined the University of Miami faculty in 2021 and leads the Executive Ed.D. in Higher Education Leadership program. He previously held faculty positions at the University of Kentucky and the University of South Florida. Dr. Jones earned a Ph.D. in Higher Education Leadership and Policy from... Read More > Laura Kohn Wood Dean, School of Education and Human Development l.kohnwood@miami.edu (305) 284-6474 Log in to view address Dr. Kohn-Wood is currently a Professor and Dean of the School of Education and Human Development at the University of Miami (UM). Dr. Kohn-Wood previously served as chair of the Department of Educational and Psychological Studies, the founding program director of the Master’s in Community & Social Change program and, with... Read More > Debbiesiu L Lee Assoc. Professor debbiesiu@miami.edu (305) 284-6160 Log in to view address Debbiesiu L. Lee joined the University of Miami faculty in August 2006. Lee’s research focuses on examining how individuals (racial and ethnic minorities, LGBT) cope with discrimination and the impact of discrimination on mental health, physical health, educational, and employment outcomes. She is also exploring issues related to... Read More > No more people to load Load More Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences Maggie Aldousany Asst. Professor Prof. Practice m.aldousany@umiami.edu Log in to view address Dr. Magda Aldousany is an Assistant Clinical Professor in the Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences. A certified athletic trainer and licensed physical therapist, Magda received a Doctorate in Physical Therapy from Nova South-eastern University in 2013. She also holds two bachelor’s degrees from the University of Miami... Read More > Brian Arwari Assoc. Professor Prof Practice b.arwari@umiami.edu (305) 284-5418 Log in to view address Brian Arwari joined the University of Miami faculty in 2008. Brian completed his Ph.D. in Psychophysiology, Cognitive Psychology, and Personality Psychology at the University of Rome “La Sapienza”. Dr. Arwari returned to the University of Miami, after having spent a year here as a Ph.D. exchange student in 2004.Dr. Arwari was... Read More > Brian D Biagioli Asst. Professor Prof. Practice b.biagioli@miami.edu (305) 284-6772 Log in to view address Dr. Brian Biagioli currently serves as the Graduate Program Director for Strength and Conditioning in the Department of Kinesiology and Sport Science at the University of Miami. Dr. Biagioli has authored three college text books; most recently the foremost book on advanced sports performance to support the graduate work being performed at the... Read More > Windy Dees Professor wdees@miami.edu (305) 284-8345 Log in to view address Windy Dees joined the Sport Administration faculty in August of 2010. She is a graduate of Texas A&M University where she received her doctoral degree in Sport Management in 2007. Dr. Dees received a master’s degree in Sport Management from the University of Florida and a bachelor’s degree in Psychology and Communications... Read More > Moataz Eltoukhy Associate Professor meltoukhy@miami.edu (305) 284-1110 Log in to view address Dr. Eltoukhy received his Bachelor’s degree in Production Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria University, Egypt. He then received his Master’s degree from the same university in the field of mechatronics utilizing the skills he gained during his research work at Bremen University, Germany, as part of the... Read More > Kysha Harriell, Ph.D. Professor of Clinical Executive Director-Office of Academic Enhancement kharriell@miami.edu (305) 284-3201 Log in to view address Dr. Kysha Harriell is the Executive Director of the Office of Academic Enhancement and a Clinical Professor in the Department of Kinesiology & Sport Sciences in the School of Education and Human Development. In addition, Dr. Harriell is currently the Chair of the Residential Faculty Program and Senior Residential Faculty in Mahoney... Read More > Kevin A Jacobs Assoc. Professor k.jacobs@miami.edu (305) 284-5873 Log in to view address Kevin Jacobs joined the faculty at the University of Miami in 2004. He completed his Masters in applied exercise physiology at San Diego State University in 1993 and worked as a research physiologist at the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego until 1995. He earned his Ph.D. in exercise physiology from The Ohio State University in 2000 and... Read More > Joosung Kim Lecturer jjk147@miami.edu (305) 284-9221 Log in to view address Dr. Joosung Kim is a lecturer of the Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences in the School of Education and Human Development. Prior to joining the faculty in 2021, he received Ph.D. in Exercise Physiology at the University of Miami and his Master’s degrees in Athletic Training at Texas State University and Bridgewater State... Read More > Min Kim Associate Professor kmk154@miami.edu (305) 284-6959 Log in to view address Dr. Kyung “Min” Kim joined the University of Miami in the fall of 2015 as an assistant professor of Athletic Training in the Department of Kinesiology and Sport Sciences. He received his Ph.D. in Sports Medicine at the University of Virginia and Master of Science in Athletic Training at the University of North Carolina at... Read More > J. Bryan Mann Asst. Professor Prof. Practice jxm2073@miami.edu (305) 284-5844 Log in to view address Read More > No more people to load Load More Department of Teaching and Learning Mary A Avalos Research Professor mavalos@miami.edu (305) 284-6467 Log in to view address Mary A. Avalos is a Research Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning. Her research interests include teacher development and professionalism and literacy/language development for multilingual learners using Systemic Functional Linguistics as a tool for language teaching. She has worked with teachers to develop interventions that... Read More > Mary Beth Calhoon Assoc. Professor mxc568@miami.edu (305) 284-4961 Log in to view address Mary Beth Calhoon, Ph.D., received her doctorate in Special Education from the Peabody College, Vanderbilt University in 1999. She is currently an Associate Professor in the School of Education and Human Development at the University of Miami.Her primary area of expertise focuses on literacy, mathematics, peer-tutoring, and Date-Based... Read More > Matthew Deroo Asst. Professor mxd1337@miami.edu (305) 284-5217 Log in to view address Matthew R. Deroo is Assistant Professor of Digital Literacies for Multilingual Students in the Department of Teaching and Learning at the University of Miami. In his research, Matt seeks to learn with and from youth and their communities. His interdisciplinary research interests include the social and cultural contexts of immigrant and refugee... Read More > Batya E Elbaum Professor elbaum@miami.edu (305) 284-4218 Log in to view address Dr. Elbaum is a developmental psychologist and education researcher who seeks to understand and improve educational outcomes for children with disabilities and their families through empirical research and involvement in federal accountability efforts related to early intervention and special education services. Her current research focuses on... Read More > Scott Grapin Asst. Professor sxg1544@miami.edu (305) 284-0762 Log in to view address Scott E. Grapin is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning. Broadly, Dr. Grapin’s research centers on fostering equitable learning environments for English learners (ELs) in K-12 settings, particularly in their content area classes. His most recent research focuses on the teaching and assessment of ELs and... Read More > Jennifer B. Kahn Asst. Professor jbk114@miami.edu (305) 284-3820 Log in to view address Jennifer Kahn Thorne is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning. As a Learning Scientist, her research examines interdisciplinary, technology-rich activities to support youth and community learning. Her design-based research program focuses on how individuals learn to build models and tell stories with large, complex... Read More > Nam Ju Kim Asst. Professor nxk366@miami.edu (305) 284-3774 Log in to view address Dr. Nam Ju Kim received a B.A. and an M.A. in Education from Yonsei University, South Korea. He earned his Ph.D. in Instructional Technology and Learning Sciences in May 2017 from Utah State University with both the Ph.D. Researcher and Outstanding Graduates of the Year awards. His research interests include the utilization of immersive... Read More > Jennifer Lee Krawec Asst. Professor Prof. Practice krawec@miami.edu (305) 284-1308 Log in to view address Dr. Jennifer Krawec joined the University of Miami faculty in 2012 as a Research Assistant Professor. Prior to this, she was an Assistant Professor at Missouri State University’s Department of Counseling, Leadership, and Special Education. Dr. Krawec is the Principal Investigator of the IES Mathematics and Science Special Education... Read More > Jason Dylan Mizell Asst. Professor jdm135@miami.edu (305) 284-4842 Log in to view address Jason D. Mizell is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Teaching and Learning. Dr. Mizell completed his M.A. at the University of Connecticut (CT), and earned his Ph.D. from the University of Georgia (GA) in language and literacy education with an emphasis in TESOL and world languages. Dr. Mizell’s teaching and school... Read More > Wendy Morrison-Cavendish Professor wcavendish@miami.edu (305) 284-5192 Log in to view address Wendy Cavendish joined the University of Miami faculty in 2007 after serving as research faculty at the Center for Criminology and Public Policy Research in the College of Criminology and Criminal Justice at Florida State University. She earned her Ph.D. in special education with a cognate in criminology and her M.S. in reading and learning... Read More > No more people to load Load More University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 School of Education and Human Development 5202 University Drive Merrick Bldg. Rm. 312 Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-3711 305-284-3711 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices