HOME Make a Gift Clemson Home Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Partners A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps CU Safety Phonebook Webcams Make a Gift Toggle navigation MANAGE MY ACCOUNT MY.CLEMSON MAPS Campus Maps Parking Space Map Long-Term Visitor Parking Short-Term Visitor Parking FORMS BikeShare Release Form Carpool Permit Application Departmental Guest Permits Departmental Space Reservation LEV / EV Employee Permit Application Payroll Deduction Election/Termination Form Special Event Parking Request Tiger Transit Rental Request Vendor Permit Application FAQ CONTACT US Metered Parking Around Campus "Pay-By-Space" Multi-Space Pay Stations Information and Instructions Parking and Transportation Services has set up parking meters around campus capable of managing multiple spaces. The meters, in line with The President's Sustainability Action Plan, are solar powered and will allow for a reduction in manned vehicle patrols, therefore reducing Parking and Transportation Services' overall carbon footprint. The pay stations not only enhance the campus landscape through a reduction in the number of single-space meters, but also provide visitors and Clemson University permit holders (CUPH) with a smart, cost-efficient parking solution that is more sustainable, reliable, and convenient than conventional timed spaces. Metered Space Locations: Select "Visitor Metered" in the window below. 1. C-9 Parking Lot: Memorial Stadium, IPTAY Office, Littlejohn Coliseum, Daily Visitor Location with transit connection to Bracket Hall via the Orange Route 2. Fike Recreation Center: Campus Recreation 3. Gentry Hall: Riggs Field, Sloan Tennis Center 4. Union Drive: Parking and Transportation Services, McAlister Dining Hall, Post Office, Holmes Hall 5. Fort Hill St: Home of Clemson's Founder Thomas Green Clemson, Scroll of Honor, Memorial Stadium, Shoebox Residence Halls 6. Fort Hill St: Home of Clemson's Founder Thomas Green Clemson 7. Sirrine Hall: Sirrine, Riggs, Hunter, Rhodes, Chik-Fil-A 8. Lee Hall Cul-de-sac: Lee, Lowry, Fluor Daniel, Chik-Fil-A 9. West Library Parking Lot: Cooper Library, Watt Center, Academic Success Center, Strom Thurmond Institute 10. Strom Thurmond Institute: Auditorium, Special Collections, Cadden Chapel 11. Brooks Center: Performing Arts Center 12. E-27 Parking Lot: Sikes Hall, Student Financial Aid, Registrar, Bookstore, College of Business, Douthit Hills, Visitors Center 13. McGinty Court: Academic Success Center, Cooper Library, McAdams, Barre, P&A 14. E-27 Parking Lot: Douthit Hills, Hub Building, Bookstore 15. R-8 Parking Lot: Douthit Hills, Hub Building, Bookstore 16. Bryan Circle: Schilleter Dining Hall, Peppino's Pizzeria, Redfern Health Center, High Rise Residence Halls 17. Hendrix Student Center: Career and Professional Development, '55 Exchange, Dean of Students, TigerOne 18. Byrnes Hall: High Rise Residence Halls, Hendrix Student Center, President's House 19. Energy Drive: Calhoun Courts, Thornhill Village, Hendrix Student Center 20. Thornhill Laundry: Calhoun Courts, Thornhill Village 21. C-1 Parking Lot: Daily Visitor parking location with transit connection to Hendrix Student Center and the Academic Success Center via the campus Blue Route 22. Lightsey Commons: Lightsey Bridge, Bridge to Clemson Program 23. P-01 Extension: (Not Shown) Outdoor/Indoor Track, Penley Golf Center, Allen N Reeves Football Operations Center Click here for a downloadable version of the visitor meter map Each of the metered areas has signage that identifies the metered spaces as well as the location of the multi-space meter pay station. Look for the white “P” on the side of the pay station and the black, bronze, and white “Pay Meter Here” signs. These regulatory signs specify the hours of operation, meter limits, and directions on how to pay at the multi-space pay station. For payment the meters currently accept: Quarters One Dollar Coins One Dollar Bills Debit/Credit Cards: MasterCard and Visa (one dollar minimum) How to Operate a Meter Press the GREEN button to begin. Enter your space number and press #. Press * to backspace. Insert cash (quarters, dollar coins, $1 bills) OR credit card. For credit card, press the “ADD TIME” button to add time in fifteen-minute increments. Press the GREEN button to print receipt. Retain receipt as proof of purchase. All metered parking spaces are numbered, i.e., “Metered 12,” and cost $2.00 per hour to park. Please follow all permit rules regarding time allowed to park in a metered space. You must pay for all the time needed in your first transaction. Please note that refunds are not given for unused time. Parking Hours Visitors and Clemson University permit holders may pay to park in the designated multi-space metered areas under the guidelines on the signs posted at the meter stations. Hours of operation are 7 a.m.–10 p.m., seven days per week. Meter limits vary by location and user type. Visitors – No Permit Required “Three-Hour Visitor Meter Limit;” CUPH – Park for the “One-Hour CU Permit Limit” or as Otherwise Posted. Parking and Transportation Services G01 Edgar Brown Union | Clemson, SC 29634 Office Hours: Mon - Fri 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Contact Us Copyright 2020 Webmaster