Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Academics People Campus About News + Events Apply Now Student Work Career Services Academic Calendar Faculty Open Positions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Specializations Student Work People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us Apply Now Portfolio Submission Portfolio Requirements Art Design Production Programming Financial Information SMU Financial Aid Guildhall Preparation Art Design Production Programming Specializations Art Creation Level Design Production Programming Student Work Independent Projects Team Game Projects Faculty Faculty Open Positions Staff Staff Open Positions Alumni Alumni Spotlight Alumni Success Students International Students GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Admissions Admissions Apply Now Admission Requirements Portfolio Requirements Financial Information Certain Affinity Scholarship Guildhall Preparation A Day In The Life Housing Refer a Game Changer Academics Academics Specializations Student Work People People Guest Lecturers and Advisors Faculty Staff Alumni Students Campus Campus Our Facilities GameLab Area Studios Visit About About History of Success FAQ Industry Partnerships Career Services Career Fair Testimonials Contact Us News + Events Apply Now Campus Our Facilities GameLab GameLab Facilities GameLab Events Steam FAQ Area Studios Visit Apply Now GameLab Events Game Jams: The SMU Guildhall Game Jam is an annual student event which includes eight hours of quick, creative game development by each new incoming cohort. For many, this is their first experience creating a game in a team environment and gives them an exciting taste of the next two years of their life. The event follows new student Orientation and precedes the first day of Fall classes. Game Jam allows new students to get acquainted with one another as well as the Guildhall culture and its team game development process. The event was built around bonding through the passion of making games, serving as an icebreaker and bonding experience. In the Game Jam, participants are divided into teams and develop video games, card games, and board games. The event encourages fun and the incorporation of wit and humor. Video games are produced in Unity and allow everyone involved to contribute to conception and development, whether students are experienced in Unity or new to the system. Additionally, SMU Guildhall faculty and staff participate in and support local game jams and hackathons including Ludum Dare, Chillennium, and the AT&T Business Hackathon with Magic Leap. Game Changers Speaker Series: SMU Guildhall's Game Changers Speaker Series, established in Spring 2015, invites industry professionals to deliver special topics presentations to the Guildhall student body and community as an extension of the SMU Guildhall mission — to educate and inspire the next generation of video game developers. This series is presented in collaboration with SMU Guildhall Career Services and Industry Relations. Some installations of the series have been streamed on our Twitch channel. See some of our past speakers here. Mixers: SMU Guildhall Career Services, Industry Relations, and GameLab collaboratively host local partners each year, such as Gearbox and Playful, at meet-and-greet mixers with industry veterans and our students. This gives studios a chance to get to know our students early and helps the students form networking relationships, which has notably made graduates' job interviews more impactful than ever. These relationships also allow us to integrate on-site visits to local studios into our production and Capstone curriculum. Other Past Events ExtraLife: GameLab has sponsored student-hosted Extra Life charity events, a student-driven streaming telethon where they play games and raise awareness for local charities. Past events have raised tens of thousands of dollars for Children’s Hospital in Plano, Texas. eSports: GameLab has participated in eSports events, such as OP Live (which we helped co-host in 2018) — a premier eSports event that brought universities, pro players and fans together for one action-packed weekend. Apply to SMU Guildhall SMU Guildhall Game Changers Shaped Here 3100 McFarlin Blvd., Suite 306 Dallas , Texas 75275 (214) 768-4278 © SMU Legal Disclosures Site Index Working at SMU Apply to SMU Guildhall x