Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Student Affairs About News Events Calendar SMU Research Bush Center Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Undergraduate Admission Apply Visit Financial Aid Menu Search Apply Transfer Application Process Application Process Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Step 1: Decide which application method is right for you. SMU Online Application The Common Application ApplyTexas The MyCoalition Application Transfer Update Form (For students who have previously applied to SMU within the last two years but did not enroll or withdrew before the 12th day of classes.) Step 2: Review and complete the application checklist. Complete your application on time - check the application deadlines Pay $60 nonrefundable application fee* (If you are Pell Eligible or a veteran, you can request an application fee waiver. Contact your Transfer Admission Counselor.) Submit official college transcripts from all previously attended colleges or universities, including dual credit and international coursework a. Applicants who have completed international coursework must also submit a professional evaluation that shows the U.S. equivalence for each educational credential and the credit and grade equivalents for university-level courses. When selecting the type of evaluation, chose a Course-by-Course evaluation. Submit an official high school transcript that includes a graduation date or GED (Optional) Submit official SAT or ACT scores (only if you transfer with less than 24 credit hours). SMU won't require standardized test scores for 2023 undergraduate applicants. We want to ease your mind about applying to SMU. (Optional) Submit extracurricular resume, personal essay, and letters of recommendation as part of your application or to ugadmission@smu.edu (optional but encouraged for scholarship consideration). Review International Transfer Application Process for students transferring from international schools. Review audition and portfolio requirements (students applying for Dance, Music, Theatre, Art, or Film) Step 3: Submit your application materials. Please submit your application online. Supporting documents such as your essay, recommendation letters, or resume can be sent via email to ugadmission@smu.edu. We recommend that transcripts be sent electronically to SMU. If your school does not send electronic transcripts, they can be mailed to the following address: Mailing Address SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, TX 75275 Physical Address (for FedEx, UPS, and DHL shipments): Laura Lee Blanton Building 6185 Airline Road Dallas, TX 75205 Please be sure that you indicate your first, middle, and last name as well as your date of birth when you email or mail application materials. If you physically mail your documents, we recommend keeping a copy of all application forms for your records. We look forward to reviewing your application and getting to know you better. If you have questions, don't hesitate to contact the SMU Office of Undergraduate Admission, where any of our transfer admission counselors are ready to help. Phone: 214-768-2058 Fax: 214-768-1083 Office Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Central Standard Time Step 4: Track Your Status Track the completion of your application in your personalized Status Page. You will receive an email with your login information within 48-72 hours after you submit your application. * You may pay online through the SMU Online Application, the Common Application, the Coalition for College Application, or the Apply Texas Application. If you are going to pay by check, make the check payable to SMU and mail to the mailing address above. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Apply First-Year Domestic Student* Application First-Year International Student* Application Transfer Forms and Applications Readmission to SMU Graduate Studies FAQs | Undergraduate Temporary Test-Optional Policy Visit Virtual Campus Experience In-Person Visit Virtual Tour Admission Events Maps and Directions Residential Commons Tour Where to Stay Academics Majors and Minors Schools Faculty Virtual Connections Support and Resources Honors and Scholars Tips SMU Abroad SMU-in-Taos FAQs | Academics Campus Life SMU and Dallas Residence Life Dining Health and Safety Spirit and Traditions Diversity At SMU Activities and Organizations Fitness and Recreation Sports Spiritual Life En Espanol FAQs | Living on Campus FAQs | Student Life Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Types of Aid Access SMU Financial Aid Process Payment Plan Options SMU Net Price Calculator Mustang Scholars Robert H. Dedman Scholarship for North Dallas High School En Español Contact Us Deadlines FAQs FAQs | Financial Aid FAQs | Tuition, Fees, and Deadlines Scholarships and Assistance Connect Meet Your Admission Counselor School Contacts Request Information High School Counselor Information Parent Information Social Media and Zoom Backgrounds Frequently Asked Questions Publications Student Ambassadors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates Incoming and Current Students Prospective Student Publications Wallpapers International How to Apply Visit SMU Life in Dallas Living at SMU International Student Events Intercultural Engagement Athletics at SMU Spirit and Traditions Immigration Information Obtaining an I-20 Transfer Benefits of an SMU Education Transfer Scholarships Transfer Admission Application Process Transfer Dates and Deadlines Transfer Pathway Guides Transfer Equivalency Tool Meadows Auditions and Portfolios Transfer Forms and Applications International Transfer Students FAQs Congratulations on your admission to SMU! How Credits Transfer Partnership Programs Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Apply Academics Campus Life Majors and Minors Visit Financial Aid Did you know? SMU's main campus is located in the nation's fourth largest metropolitan area, Dallas-Fort Worth, with 7.4 million people and more than 20 Fortune 500 headquarters.Learn More Menu Search