Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Work at Texas Tech Menu Search TTU Human Resources Home Work at Texas Tech About Lubbock Lubbock, Texas is located in northwest Texas. Considered to be at the center of the South Plains, the area is located between the Permian Basin to the south and the Texas Panhandle to the north. Lubbock's official elevation is 3,256 feet. Lubbock was named after Thomas S. Lubbock, a former Texas Ranger and Confederate officer. His brother, Francis R. Lubbock, was the governor of Texas during the Civil War. The county of Lubbock was founded in 1876. The settlement that is the present-day city of Lubbock was not formed until late 1890. Two settlements within the county, Old Lubbock and Monterey, were combined to form the settlement of Lubbock. During the following year, the settlement of Lubbock was named the county seat for Lubbock County. The city was incorporated on March 16, 1909. Shortly after incorporation, rail service was established in Lubbock. As agriculture continued to grow within the region and as the railroads continued to expand, Lubbock became the marketing center of the region and earned the name "Hub of the Plains". Lubbock continued to grow as the city's opportunities increased. In 1925, Texas Technological College opened its doors, providing Lubbock with a major boost to its economy. While Lubbock felt the effects of the Great Depression, the city started to bounce back with the opening of two military training bases during World War II. After the war, Lubbock experienced a tremendous growth rate. During the '40s, Lubbock's rate of growth was second nationally only to Albuquerque. Lubbock experienced its worst disaster on May 11, 1970, when a tornado, considered to be one of the strongest in recorded history, came through the center of town, wreaking havoc over three square miles of the city. Twenty-six people were killed and there was more than $135 million in damage. The city quickly repaired or replaced the damaged buildings. Part of this renovation included the construction of the Lubbock Memorial Civic Center, built as a memorial to those who died from this devastating tornado. The 2014 estimated population of Lubbock is 293,974. Lubbock continues to grow, relying on the vast agricultural industry of the area as well as on a variety of manufacturing facilities. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Work at Texas Tech Like Work at Texas Tech on FacebookLike Work at Texas Tech on Facebook Follow Work at Texas Tech on twitterFollow Work at Texas Tech on twitter Address Texas Tech University, 2518 15th Street, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3851 Email webmaster@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityJan 15, 2020 1:15 PM Work at Texas Tech Job Search Work at Texas Tech Job Search Back Faculty Staff Students Current Employee Legal Statement Why Texas Tech Work at Texas Tech Why Texas Tech Back Employee Enrichment Entertainment Health and Wellness Campus Security About Lubbock Work at Texas Tech About Lubbock Back About the City Living in Lubbock Entertainment Veterans Work at Texas Tech Veterans Back Veteran's Employment Work at Texas Tech Veterans Veteran's Employment Back Veterans Employment Overview Fundamentals for Hiring Managers Fundamentals for Veterans Annual Security and Fire Safety Labor Compliance Notices Workplace Posters Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index