Skip to site alert. Skip to content Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research Newsletter News Events Videos People Search About Us About Us Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List Initiatives and Committees Implementation Science COVID-19 Research Initiative Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Committee Opioid Crisis Response Learning Health System Initiative Services and Programs Our Impact Our Impact A Model for Collaboration Testimonials Publications People Impact Stories Narratives of Discovery People Irving Scholars Mentor of the Year Award Pilot Awardees Scholars, Trainees, and Fellows Join a Study Join a Study What is Health Research? Research Registries and Studies Community Health Resources You are here Home > About Us > News Resources and Cores Message from the Director History Initiatives and Committees News Events Videos Contact Cite the Grant Subscribe to our Mailing List News Topics Research Campus News Public Health Precision Medicine Education Impact Stories Personalized Medicine Medical School View All Topics Search All News Keywords Top Stories Dr. Rafael A. Lantigua and Dr. Olajide A. Williams will chair the new Community Advisory Council, along with Dr. Melissa Begg and Dr. Wafaa El-Sadr Source: Columbia Neighbors The Council will support and expand partnerships and programs with community leaders and organizations in Harlem and Upper Manhattan. Topic Campus News Article 5: George Hripcsak Dr. Hripcsak has had profound influence on the development of medical informatics globally through his discoveries while at Columbia University’s Department of Biomedical Informatics. Topic Infectious Diseases The Lancet Features Our Narratives of Discovery Series The Irving Institute is proud to announce the publication of our narrative medicine partnership with Dr. Rita Charon. Topic General Medicine Gary Miller - Named Fellow for the American Association for the Advancement of Science Source: CUIMC Newsroom Gary W. Miller, PhD, named AAAS Fellow, a professor of environmental health sciences and vice dean for research strategy and innovation at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. Topic Campus News Latest News Announcing the 2022-2023 Innovative Intervention and Implementation Science Pilot Awards April 7, 2022 These pilot awards provide a key capacity building opportunity to stimulate the development and testing of population health. Topic Campus News Article 4: Wendy Chung October 27, 2021 A narrative medicine article by Rita Charon, interviewing geneticist and pediatrician Wendy Chung - A series call Narratives of Discovery, in partnership with The Irving Institute at CU Topic Genetics The Health Department Announces New Members of the NYC Board of Health Source: NYC.gov September 28, 2021 Dr. Sidney Hankerson named as part of the 11-member New York City Board of Health, protecting the health of all New Yorkers. Topic Campus News Columbia Awarded $61.7 Million to Accelerate Development of New Medical Treatments Source: CUIMC Newsroom September 14, 2021 The funding enables the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research to maintain more than 70 services and programs to help Columbia researchers Topic Campus News Dr. Marisa Spann & Dr. Jacquelyn Taylor Named Co-Directors of TL1 Program September 10, 2021 Dr. Henry Ginsberg is stepping down as PI of the TL1 award, and Dr. Krzysztof Kiryluk will move on from his Co-Directorship of the program. Topic Campus News Article 3: Nabila El-Bassel September 8, 2021 A narrative medicine perspective on leading global health expert Dr. El-Bassel, as she discusses her inspirations and approach. Topic Narratives of Discovery View All News Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian ColumbiaDoctors About Us Services and Programs Our Impact Join a Study Contact Columbia University 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us YouTube LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Back to top