Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University PostDoc Association Menu Toggle Search Main navigation About ISU Postdoctoral Association Officers and Advisors Past Officers Welcome Policy Manual Setting up your ISU Net-ID Quick Guide to Ames International Postdoc Checklist Immigration Resources News and Events Recent News Upcoming Events Postdoc Success Program Awards and Funding New Postdoc Orientation General Meeting Board Meetings Resources Postdoctoral Resources University Resources ISU Postdoctoral Association The ISU Graduate College is the administrative home for postdoctoral research associates and is committed to providing you an outstanding postdoctoral experience. Iowa State currently trains approximately 300 postdoctoral research associates in a variety of disciplines, including the biological and agricultural sciences, engineering, physical sciences, social sciences, and veterinary medicine as well as several institutional and regional research institutes, and national facilities like the Ames Laboratory (a U.S. Department of Energy research facility). Postdoctoral training is a collaborative effort involving the Graduate College, the Office of the Provost, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Economic Development, academic colleges, and the many faculty advisors and mentors who oversee the training activities of our postdoctoral associates. Check back often at this website for upcoming orientations, workshops, and other mentoring opportunities for your training experience. The Iowa State University Postdoctoral Association constitution is available here. Mission Statement Postdoctoral Research Associates are valued members of the academic community at Iowa State University. We value the important contributions that postdoctoral associates make to our research, outreach, and teaching missions. The purpose and goals of the ISUPDA shall be to provide: A sense of community by developing social and professional interactions among postdoctoral scholars at Iowa State University. A forum where issues relevant to members of the association will be addressed and communicated to the appropriate administrators and faculty of Iowa State University A productive dialogue among postdoctoral scholars, administrators, and faculty at Iowa State University. Continue to advocate for diversity, equity, and inclusivity for postdocs as a whole and on Iowa State University's campus. Iowa State University PostDoc Association Contact PostDoc Association 1156 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 mcarder@iastate.edu 515-294-0419 phone Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information Loading...