Skip to main content Submit Close Give to UH Search About Academics Admissions Campus Life Research Athletics Locations Sugar Land Katy UH Technology Bridge News & Events Giving UH Home Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid Types of Aid COVID-19 Financial Aid Costs & Financial Aid Undergraduate Costs & Financial Aid How to Apply Tuition & Fees Types of Aid Cougar Emergency Fund COVID-19 Financial Aid Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Reporting Scholarships Grants Loans Work-Study Financial Incentives Summer Aid Spring Aid Scholarships & Financial Aid Forms FAQs Undergraduate Admissions Financial Literacy Graduate Costs & Financial Aid Find your Financial Aid Advisor Payment Information Contact Us Related Links Official UH COVID-19 Updates UH Enrollment Services Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs Undergraduate Admissions COVID-19 FAQs Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund Reporting COVID-19 Financial Aid × Virtual appointments with Financial Aid Advisors are now available. Learn more here. Due to the high volume of applications received, the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid is no longer accepting requests for applications for emergency grants from the Higher Education Emergency Relief Funds. Students who had previously submitted applications will be notified of the status of their application as the review process continues based on the date order in which they were received. The University of Houston has been providing emergency grant funding to assist students whose households have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. These funds were provided by the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF III) through the American Rescue Plan (ARP). NOTICE: The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid does not employ tax experts and by law cannot answer specific tax questions or help students prepare tax forms. It is the student’s responsibility to meet their tax obligations. We offer this FAQ from the IRS to guide students as they discuss these matters with tax preparers. Important information: Grants are available to degree-seeking students whose households were impacted by COVID-19 anytime since March 13, 2020 and have been enrolled at the University of Houston since March 13, 2020, with preference given to currently enrolled students. Students must document losses or expenses specifically related to COVID-19 as funds can only be awarded with documentation. Processing times may take up to six weeks. Grant Maximum Increased Effective January 20, the maximum allowable grant from HEERF III funding has been increased to $10,000 for the 2021-22 academic year. The previous maximum had been $6,495. Students who previously submitted applications which were awarded the old maximum of $6,495 will automatically be reviewed for additional eligibility in the order in which they were received. Reprocessing of prior applications may take six to eight weeks. If the documentation previously submitted supports an increase in funding, it will automatically be applied to your account, up to a total of $10,000. If the documentation previously submitted only supports a smaller increase, that amount will be awarded, and the student will have a new application added to their To Do List to submit an additional application and documentation in support of the total maximum grant amount of $10,000. Students who previously submitted applications which were awarded less than the old maximum, will have a new application added to their To Do List to submit an additional application and documentation in support of the total maximum grant amount of $10,000. View previous sources of funding for students impacted by COVID-19 University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies