Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Forensic Chemistry PSM You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Forensic Chemistry PSM Apply Request More Info Forensic Chemistry PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Professional Science Master’s in Forensic Chemistry Learn to use science to identify unknown materials with the Professional Science Master’s in Forensic Chemistry in Temple’s College of Science and Technology. The degree prepares you for a wide range of positions in the private and public sectors that affect civil litigation, criminal investigation and prosecution, homeland security, legal reform and technological advancements. Forensic chemists are in high demand and are essential in the analysis of evidence for civil and criminal cases. Through the program, you’ll learn the scientific methods used to detect, examine and process nonbiological trace evidence for the purpose of identifying unknown materials. You’ll study both the legal and the scientific aspects of forensic chemistry and gain conceptual knowledge and practical skills from classes in analytical and forensic chemistry, applied biopharmaceutics, data analysis, ethics, law and toxicology. In addition to the curriculum, annual seminars facilitated by leaders in forensic chemistry will keep you up-to-date on the latest developments in the field. Students gain hands-on experience through the program’s onsite modular, forensic chemistry laboratory where many courses are taught. You’ll also complete an internship and an independent study project, which set you up for success as a forensic chemistry professional. Classes & Curriculum In this 32-credit-hour degree program, some of your courses will include Data Analysis and Evidence, Introduction to Toxicology, Investigative Chemistry, and Leadership, Law and Ethics in Forensic Science. Learn more about Forensic Chemistry PSM courses. Related Graduate Degrees Chemistry MS Chemistry PhD Computational Data Science MS Computer and Information Science PhD Computer Science MS High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM Information Science and Technology MS Mathematics MS Mathematics PhD Related Graduate Certificates Computer Science Scientific Writing Satellite Opportunities The program requires attendance at several campus locations, including Temple University Ambler Campus, Temple University Health Sciences Center in Philadelphia and Temple University Main Campus in Philadelphia. Some instruction for the program also takes place at other professional forensic chemistry sites. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Professional Science Masters offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Advisors Faculty advisors will help you to shape your coursework and research activities to align with your goals and academic interests. Khaled Elokely is a research associate professor in the Chemistry Department and the program director of the Forensic Chemistry PSM. Email: kelokely@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the practice track and managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Program Contact For general questions regarding the Forensic Chemistry PSM, contact cst.psm@temple.edu. For more specific questions regarding the program, contact the following staff members. Khaled Elokely is a research associate professor in the Chemistry Department and the program director of the Forensic Chemistry PSM. Email: kelokely@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor in the practice track and managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations If you can find the time to participate while meeting the demands of your degree program, student clubs offer valuable opportunities to meet fellow graduate students, researchers and professionals from science- and technology-related industries. Temple Organizations Chemistry after Dark is a monthly evening discussion group featuring research presentations by graduate students. Students learn to break down their ideas in clear, understandable ways for a wide and varied audience. Temple University Chemical Society is a student organization devoted to service, outreach and chemistry. Members meet with faculty in the "lunch and lab" program, volunteer at outreach events with local schools, and organize fundraisers to support scientific research. Temple University Forensics Association helps students form an interest in forensic science through field trips and professional networking opportunities. Local Organizations Philadelphia Organic Chemists’ Club Philadelphia Inorganic Colloquium Science History Institute Philadelphia Science Festival Philadelphia Local American Chemical Society chapter Extracurricular Activities Join one of the department's intramural teams to get to know colleagues outside of the lab and enjoy the outdoors. Many labs have intramural teams that compete against each other in annual tournaments such as the department summer volleyball league. Learn more about student clubs and organizations in the Department of Chemistry. Study Away If the demands of your degree program allow it, consider spending a summer or semester overseas building international connections with researchers from other countries. Temple’s study abroad program offers College of Science and Technology students opportunities to spend a summer or semester studying in China, Germany, Italy, South Korea or Taiwan. Learn more about your study abroad options. Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-FCHM-PSM Additional Program Information Visit College Site Visit Department Page View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Forensic Chemistry PSM Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info