Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Paul L. Foster Success Center New Student Experience Menu NSE Courses Instructor Resources NSE Goals and Outcomes Academic Rigor Personal Growth Faith Formation Cultural Humility Syllabus Statements NSE Sample Syllabi Icebreakers NSE Logos Recommended Reading and Best Practices Supporting First Generation College Students NSE Community Building Events Academic Convocation 2022 Theme for NSE 2022-23 Make a Gift Paul L. Foster Success Center New Student Experience The New Student Experience combines courses and programs designed to help students transition to the rigorous academic environment at Baylor. The New Student Experience theme for 2021-22 is: RESILIENCE! Explore Academic Rigor New students will become active learners who take ownership of their academic path, developing critical thinking skills and a passion for lifelong learning. Read More Cultural Humility New students will begin to foster the virtue of cultural humility by reflecting on the unique nature of cultures (racial, ethnic, gender, socio-economic, religious, and ability). Read More Faith Formation New students will explore spiritually formative opportunities at Baylor through Christian worship, faith practices, and the witness of faculty, staff, and students. Read More Personal Growth New students should engage in learning opportunities that allow them to analyze their holistic wellbeing. Read More Academic Convocation Courses Instructor Resources Why I Teach See More Profiles Eric Holleyman, Ph.D. Senior Lecturer of Religion "The NSE provides a system for greeting, getting to know and building a community foundation for a continued conversation in and out of the classroom over the undergraduate years" Emily Sandvall Director for Undergraduate Programs, School of Engineering and Computer Science "I really enjoy teaching NSE courses because I see, first-hand, the impact that the experience is having on students. Randy M. Wood, Ph.D. Professor, Curriculum and Instruction "I do NSE because Baylor did it for ME when I was a freshmen from a small central Texas high school, first in my family to attend college, and wondering what in the world God had called me to do." What NSE is About The New Student Experience consists of various components. Orientation Learn More Line Camp Learn More Welcome Week Learn More Welcome Weekend Learn More Move-In Learn More Chapel Learn More New Student Experience (254) 710-3478 Paul L. Foster Success Center Center for Academic Success and Engagement Make a Gift General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 NSE Courses Instructor Resources NSE Goals and Outcomes Academic Rigor Personal Growth Faith Formation Cultural Humility Syllabus Statements NSE Sample Syllabi Icebreakers NSE Logos Recommended Reading and Best Practices Supporting First Generation College Students NSE Community Building Events Academic Convocation 2022 Theme for NSE 2022-23 Make a Gift