Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Faculty & Research Faculty Research Featured Topics Academic Units …→ Harvard Business School→ Faculty & Research→ Faculty Faculty Positions Tommy Pan Fang Doctoral Student Doctoral Student I am a Ph.D. candidate in the Technology and Operations Management (TOM) unit at Harvard Business School. Read more I am a Ph.D. candidate in the Technology and Operations Management (TOM) unit at Harvard Business School. My primary research interest is in understanding how digitization has impacted the organization and performance of firms. In my dissertation, I study how digital platforms can sustain long-term growth. My job market paper considers the tension in how value is shared between platforms and the third-party firms that provide complementary components and services that enhance the platform. I study the impact of an unexpected Apple iOS policy change that negatively impacted the advertising business model for mobile applications on the platform. I graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 2015, with degrees in Economics from the Wharton School and in Computer Science. Previously, I worked in product management at Microsoft and in venture capital at Osage University Partners. Less +1 →Send Email Contact Information Send Email Publications Journal Articles Journal Articles Fang, Tommy Pan, Andy Wu, and David R. Clough. "Platform Diffusion at Temporary Gatherings: Social Coordination and Ecosystem Emergence." Art. 1. Strategic Management Journal 42, no. 2 (February 2021): 233–272. (Lead article.) View Details Clough, David R., Tommy Pan Fang, Balagopal Vissa, and Andy Wu. "Turning Lead into Gold: How Do Entrepreneurs Mobilize Resources to Exploit Opportunities?" Academy of Management Annals 13, no. 1 (2019): 240–271. View Details Working Papers Working Papers Chauvin, Jasmina, Prithwiraj Choudhury, and Tommy Pan Fang. "The Effects of Temporal Distance on Intra-Firm Communication: Evidence from Daylight Savings Time." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-052, September 2020. (Revised November 2021.) View Details Greenstein, Shane, and Tommy Pan Fang. "Where the Cloud Rests: The Economic Geography of Data Centers." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-042, September 2020. View Details All Publications I am a Ph.D. candidate in the Technology and Operations Management (TOM) unit at Harvard Business School. My primary research interest is in understanding how digitization has impacted the organization and performance of firms. In my dissertation, I study how digital platforms can sustain long-term growth. My job market paper considers the tension in how value is shared between platforms and the third-party firms that provide complementary components and services that enhance the platform. I study the impact of an unexpected Apple iOS policy change that negatively impacted the advertising business model for mobile applications on the platform. I graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 2015, with degrees in Economics from the Wharton School and in Computer Science. Previously, I worked in product management at Microsoft and in venture capital at Osage University Partners. Journal Articles Fang, Tommy Pan, Andy Wu, and David R. Clough. "Platform Diffusion at Temporary Gatherings: Social Coordination and Ecosystem Emergence." Art. 1. Strategic Management Journal 42, no. 2 (February 2021): 233–272. (Lead article.) View Details Clough, David R., Tommy Pan Fang, Balagopal Vissa, and Andy Wu. "Turning Lead into Gold: How Do Entrepreneurs Mobilize Resources to Exploit Opportunities?" Academy of Management Annals 13, no. 1 (2019): 240–271. View Details Working Papers Chauvin, Jasmina, Prithwiraj Choudhury, and Tommy Pan Fang. "The Effects of Temporal Distance on Intra-Firm Communication: Evidence from Daylight Savings Time." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-052, September 2020. (Revised November 2021.) View Details Greenstein, Shane, and Tommy Pan Fang. "Where the Cloud Rests: The Economic Geography of Data Centers." Harvard Business School Working Paper, No. 21-042, September 2020. View Details Additional Information Personal Website Area of Study Technology and Operations Management Innovation Additional Information Personal Website Area of Study Technology and Operations Management Innovation ǁ Harvard Business School Soldiers Field Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College