Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu School of Public Health About Programs Apply Students Research News & Events Faculty & Staff Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Undergraduate BSPH Public Health Minor Masters MHAEMHAMPHMS BiostatisticsDual Programs Doctoral PhD Epidemiology and BiostatisticsPhD Social and Behavioral Sciences Graduate Certificate Population HealthHealth AnalyticsHealth Systems Leadership Interpreter Course Take Action Apply Now Explore Programs News & Events Contact Us Follow SPH Online Facebooktwitter Home School of Public Health Programs Public Health Minor Public health is the science of protecting the health of people and the communities where they live, learn, work and play. The public health minor is designed to provide students with an understanding of the connections between public health and every aspect of life as well as the analytic approaches to understanding these connections. The Public Health Minor is offered through the School of Public Health and is open to any University of Memphis undergraduate student who wishes to gain an understanding of the language, concepts and methods of addressing population-level health challenges. Why Minor in Public Health? Students who complement their major degree programs with a public health minor will gain an understanding of how to help society by improving health and preventing disease on a population level. The minor can be an asset to students in determining their interest in graduate studies as well as entering into public health or other health-related careers. Students in the minor are well positioned for graduate work in specific disciplines such as public health, psychology, sociology, social work and health communication. The program also provides applied health content and adds value to academic degrees of students seeking admission to dental, nursing, medical, pharmacy, physical therapy and other professional schools. Minor Curriculum and Requirements Students learn quantitative methods and analytical frameworks for tackling challenging issues such as health care access, disease outbreaks, and environmental hazards. The Minor in Public Health fosters an interdisciplinary, collaborative perspective on individual and population health. As students develop specific public health competencies, undergraduate interdisciplinary experiences provide students better flexibility in working across disciplines as well as within their own major. Students enrolled in the minor must complete a total of 18 credit hours. This includes: 3 lower division hours 9 hours from the Public Health upper division core 6 hours of approved electives View Curriculum > For detailed information about this minor, including policies, course names and descriptions, visit the Undergraduate Catalog. Tuition and Fees For estimated tuition, visit the University & Student Business Services' Fee Charts. Contact Us Emma Draluck, MPH Instructor Coordinator kdraluck@memphis.edu 901.678.1687 Debra Bartelli, DrPH Undergraduate Program Director dbrtelli@memphis.edu 901.678.1395 Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 2/9/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.