Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home Programs Programs Our Programs Our new undergraduate degree program, a top-ranked master's program, joint degrees with other leading UT programs, and doctoral program come to life in the heart of Austin, Texas. Become an iSchooler Informatics Degrees (BA/BSI) Our bachelor's degree program trains students to leverage insights from data and information technology to solve problems. An Informatics minor is also available. Bachelor's Degree MS in Information Studies (MSIS) Our competitive program and flexible curriculum provides the tools necessary to study, manage, and innovate the information systems around us. Master's Degree PhD in Information Studies Our doctoral program offers a research-intensive environment in which to pursue answers to important information problems of our time. Doctoral Degree Dual Degree Programs The School of Information proudly partners with numerous colleges and cognate disciplines on the UT campus to offer a unique array of dual master's degree programs as well as an integrated five year BS Computer Science/MS Information Studies degree program. Learn More School Librarian Certificate Program This certificate program prepares teachers for the next exciting phase of their career as a public school librarian in the state of Texas. Students who do not yet have a master's degree can earn a Master of Science in Information Studies (MSIS) through the certificate program. Learn More Why Study Information? iSchool students learn to: Design new tools Analyze human activities Organize information Ensure technology serves users We are living in an Information Age. Information systems and technologies are fundamentally shaping the behaviors of individuals, organizations, and society — impacting how we interact and connect, learn and develop new knowledge, conduct business, engage with culture, participate in politics and government, and much more. Information professionals are bridgers: connecting people to information, connecting the past to the present and to the future, and connecting different disciplines. To understand the dynamics of our world, and to help shape a future that reflects social values, our students develop expertise in how people access, create, use, and preserve information; how to extract meaning from information; how to design effective information experiences; and the impacts of new technologies on individuals, organizations, and society. Information Science is a STEM discipline and information careers are wide-ranging, high-demand, and well paid. Graduates from the iSchool develop careers in almost every industry including high-tech, education, government, business, and law. Top job titles include: librarian, archivist, taxonomist, UX researcher, UX designer, analyst, data engineer and more! students-computer-lab-class.png Become an iSchooler Our community of scholars come from diverse personal and academic backgrounds, each contributing to our shared goal of keeping humans at the center of our information-rich world. Admissions Fast Facts student-enrollment-icon.png Student Enrollment Competitive admissions and face-to-face instruction keep total iSchool enrollment at approximately 400 students. Admissions women-in-stem-icon.png Advancing Women in STEM Two thirds of our students are women, many of whom are drawn to us because of our human-centered approach to technology. Diversity & Inclusion international-students-icon.png International Students We attract students from around the world, with one third of our students coming to Texas from outside of the US. International Students top-ranked-program-icon.png A Top-Ranked Program Our school is ranked at #5 among the best Library and Information Studies schools in the nation by US News & World Report. Specialty rankings include: #4 in Archives & Preservation #7 in Digital Librarianship #8 in Information Systems About the iSchool interdisciplinary-research-icon.png Interdisciplinary Research The iSchool is home to specialized research labs in User Experience, Digital Archives, Conservation, and Information Retrieval. Research funding averages $1-2 million a year, with awards from the NSF, IMLS, NEH, DARPA, Google, Mellon Foundation, and others. Explore iSchool Research career-prospects-icon.png Excellent Career Prospects Last year, 88% of our graduates secured full-time employment with an average salary of $81,203.* Top job titles include: librarian, archivist, software engineer, UX researcher, UX designer, analyst, and data engineer. Career Development * According to the iSchool's latest Employment Report survey for the Class of 2021. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022