Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Emergency Contraception Emergency Contraception Emergency contraception may be used after sex when a method of birth control failed or was not used. Most emergency contraception must be started within 72 hours. Students may need emergency contraception if: Sex was unplanned, unintended, or unwanted. Contraceptives were not used or failed, or were used incorrectly (i.e., missed birth control pills, late for Depo Provera injection, condom broke or slipped off). NuvaRing, diaphragm or intrauterine device (IUD) slipped out of place. Columbia students can obtain Plan B or Ella directly at Medical Services. Students can speak to a nurse or make a nursing appointment appointment by calling 212-854-7426. After-hours, call 212-854-7426 for medical advice. Cost At Medical Services There is no additional cost for Plan B or Ella to Columbia students who have paid the full Columbia Health fee. Using insurance If students are away from the Morningside campus, they can also find one-pill emergency contraception, such as Plan B, on-the-shelf at many drugstores and pharmacies. Proof-of-age is not required at time of purchase. The cost for emergency contraception varies—local pharmacies charge between $31 and $50—but is also available for free, 24 hours a day at any public hospital within the five boroughs of New York City. Students who are on the Columbia Student Health Insurance Plan: The cost of this medication is covered by the Plan, in compliance with the Affordable Care Act. Students who are on other insurance plans: Other insurance plans may require a co-payment or may not cover emergency contraception. Contraception Options Plan B Plan B One-Step and the generic one-pill emergency contraception formulations are available without a prescription or any age limitations. One-pill is most effective if taken as soon as possible within 72 hours after sex, though there may continue to be some benefit up to 120 hours (5 days) after sex. If emergency contraception has been provided in the two-pill formulation, the first pill is taken as soon as possible, and the second pill is taken 12 hours later. Ella At the time of the visit, a medical provider may determine, based on medical history, that another method of emergency contraception is indicated. The emergency contraception medication Ella is another option that always requires a prescription. At Medical Services, Ella is dispensed by a healthcare provider. Other Options Several levonorgestrel-containing brands of combined hormonal birth control pills may be used in different doses as emergency contraception. The non-hormonal (copper) IUD may be used as an emergency contraception if placed within five days of unprotected sex and requires insertion by a skilled practitioner (not available at Medical Services). Contact Medical Services for information and guidance about your options. Make an Appointment Medical Services Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Medical Services Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close