By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Cost of Attendance International More from this Section Graduate Undergraduate Cost of Attendance for International Students The cost of attendance is an estimate of what it will cost for an international undergraduate student to attend Syracuse University for an academic year. Charges for tuition, housing, meals and fees are subject to annual increase to secure the highest quality instruction, facilities, programs, and services. The University considers carefully all increases in fees to ensure that they are reasonable. Students and families should plan for annual cost increases and be prepared for the financial commitment. Speak with a financial aid counselor Note: If you are an international applicant who requires an F-1 Student Visa to come to Syracuse, please review the International Requirements for estimate information and instructions on how to submit sufficient funds. There are two types of expenses that make up the cost of attendance: Direct Expenses Direct expenses are costs that you pay directly to Syracuse University through the Bursar’s Office. Examples of direct expenses include: tuition, fees, room (if you live on campus), and meals (if you select a meal plan). The cost of attendance uses a blended room and meal rate, as living arrangements and costs vary. Your actual housing and meal charges will depend on the type of housing and meal plan you select. You will be billed for the actual charges of your room and meal plan selection, which may be different than the amount listed in the cost of attendance. Indirect Expenses 2022-23 Cost of Attendance Costs for an upcoming school year are determined and approved by our Board of Trustees in March, prior to the start of the school year. All costs for an upcoming school year are estimates and subject to change prior to this approval. Indirect expenses are not billed by Syracuse University; however, estimates for these expenses are included in the cost of attendance for your planning purposes. Examples of indirect expenses include: books, supplies, transportation, and personal expenses. Please note: these are only estimates, your actual indirect expenses may be different. 2022-2023 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance for Students Enrolled After Fall 2018 Direct (billable) costs Tuition $58,440 Housing & meals (average) $17,170 Miscellaneous fees $1,695 Total direct (billable) costs $77,305 Non-billable costs (average) Books & supplies $1,690 Transportation $1,728 Personal expenses $1,184 Total non-billable costs $4,602 Subtotal (without health insurance) $81,907 Health insurance premium (covers 12 months) $2,251** Program fees $1,000* Total cost of attendance $85,158 The cost of attendance may vary based on the program of study and program fees.*Room, board, transportation, and personal expenses if remaining in Syracuse for the summer are estimated to be $6,342. This does not include tuition charges, if applicable. 2022-2023 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance for Students Enrolled Prior to Fall 2018 Direct (billable) costs Tuition $54,600 Housing & meals (average) $17,550 Miscellaneous fees $1,695 Total direct (billable) costs $73,845* Non-billable costs (average) Books & supplies $1,690 Transportation $1,728 Personal expenses $1,184 Total non-billable costs $4,602 Subtotal (without health insurance) $78,447 Health insurance $2,251** Program fees $1,000* Total cost of attendance $81,698 The cost of attendance may vary based on the program of study and program fees.*Room, board, transportation, and personal expenses if remaining in Syracuse for the summer are estimated to be $6,342. This does not include tuition charges, if applicable. Graduate Cost of Attendance for the 2022-2023 Academic Year Direct (billable) costs Direct (billable) costs Tuition $32,436* Direct (billable) costs Fees $922 Direct (billable) costs Total direct (billable) costs $33,358 Direct (billable) costs Other indirect expenses (average) Direct (billable) costs Housing $11,136 Direct (billable) costs Meals $4,220 Direct (billable) costs Books & supplies $1,033 Direct (billable) costs Transportation $1,728 Direct (billable) costs Personal expenses $2,244 Direct (billable) costs Total $20,361 Direct (billable) costs Subtotal (without health insurance) $53,719 Direct (billable) costs Health insurance $2,251 Direct (billable) costs Total cost of attendance $55,970 *The tuition figure of $1,802 per credit hour listed above applies to most graduate programs, with the exception of the Social Work & Marriage & Family Therapy programs which charge $1,111 per credit hour. The above estimate is based on 18 credit hours for the academic year. Related Pages Part-Time Cost of Attendance Tuition is discounted for part-time students at Syracuse. But college costs encompass more than tuition and fees. Student Health Insurance Syracuse University requires full-time, matriculated students to carry qualifying health insurance coverage. Types of Financial Aid There are a variety of loans, grants, scholarships, and programs to assist in paying for your education at Syracuse University. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy