Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering The Harriet W. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning Home About Programs & Services Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching Learning Collaborative News & Events Site Navigation Home About Staff Proctors and Head Teaching Consultants Teaching Consultants Sheridan Center Advisory Groups Departmental Liaisons Visit Staff Jobs at the Center Student Jobs at the Center Programs & Services Assessment Departmental Assessment Plans Campus Assessment Projects Assessing and Researching your Teaching Certificates Sheridan Teaching Seminar Course Design Seminar Teaching Consultant Program Head Teaching Consultants Invited Speaker Program Consultations Course Consultations Grant Consultations Teaching Observations Goals and Contexts Early Student Feedback Departmental Support Departmental Assessment Plans Learning Outcomes and Mapping English Language Support English Language Workshops Individual Support Conversation Partners Program English Language Program Fellowships & Awards Provost’s Faculty Teaching Fellows Graduate Student Proctorship in Academic Administration Graduate and Postdoc Teaching Fellows Junior Faculty Teaching Fellows University Awards Grant Support Institutes & Retreats Launch Anchor Problem Solving Course Design Institute Data Science Course Design Institute Seminar for Transformation Around Anti-Racist Teaching Orientations Tutoring Tutoring Supported Courses Summer 2022 Language Courses Apply to be a Tutor People Workshops & Roundtables Teaching Essentials for Graduate TAs Teaching Statements & Portfolios Sheridan-RISD Museum Collaborative Workshop Series Writing [email protected] Past [email protected] Programming Writing Center People Consultations FAQ Opportunities Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Outreach Apply Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Creating a Syllabus Resources for New Instructors Interpreting Your Course Feedback Evidence-based Practices Establishing Learning Goals Classroom Assessment Entrance and Exit Tickets Sample Exit Tickets Mid-Semester Feedback Guidelines for Assessing Student Learning Grading Criteria & Rubrics Creating Grading Criteria Designing Grading Rubrics Rubrics Criteria Rubrics Scales Enhancing Student Learning with Technology Promoting Study Skills Classroom Practices Learning Contexts First Day(s) of Class Lectures & Large Classes Discussions & Seminars Labs Active Learning Critical Reading Contemplative Pedagogy Promoting Metacognition Teaching with Podcasts Classroom Communication Tips Effective Multimedia Lecture Slides Teaching Problem Solving Writing to Learn Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Effective Mentoring Practices Inclusive Teaching Anti-Racist Teaching Definitions Diversity & Inclusion Inclusive Mentoring Learning Collaborative Problem Solving Problem Solving Course Design Institute Problem Solving Fellows Research Writing Writing Across the Curriculum Seminar WAC Participants Writing Fellows People Courses English 1190M Apply Data Science Data Science Course Design Institute Data Science Fellows News & Events Upcoming Events Past Events Newsletter Teaching a WRIT Course Resources for Faculty Teaching a WRIT Course 1. Overview of the Writing Requirement at Brown The writing requirement is designed to allow students the opportunity to gain and develop their writing skills over the course of their time at Brown. Courses that fulfill the writing requirement offer instruction, feedback, and guidance in disciplinary or academic writing conventions for students. Writing-designated (WRIT) courses provide students with substantive formative feedback on a minimum of two writing assignments. For example, students might have the opportunity to draft a writing assignment, receive instructor feedback, and then revise the assignment based on feedback. Research shows that writing is an iterative process and that students learn best when given the opportunity to revise their work based on writing-specific feedback they receive (Sommers, 2013). For faculty: more information on writing-designated courses For students: information on the writing requirement 2. Suggested Language and Key Considerations for WRIT Course Syllabi Sample Syllabus Statement "This course is a writing-designated course (WRIT): (1) you have the opportunity to write at least twice, (2) you receive substantive feedback on your writing, and (3) you have opportunities to apply feedback to multiple drafts of the same assignment or future drafts of different writing assignments. There are many resources on campus to support your writing, including the Writing Center, English Language Support, and Subject Specialists in the Library." Information to Include on WRIT-designated Course Syllabi The ways in which the course will either introduce students to academic writing conventions, or help them develop discipline-specific writing skills. The ways in which writing will help students learn the course material. The amount of time students should expect to spend on writing in your course (drafting, revising, giving peer feedback, etc.). A brief description of the required writing assignments, their due dates, information about writing-focused feedback students will receive, and information about how the assignments will be assessed or evaluated. One or more writing-related course goals or outcomes. Other Considerations for Designing a WRIT Course Have you considered how you might scaffold longer assignments into manageable smaller tasks for students? Have you considered structuring the course so that students have completed one writing assignment before beginning another? Have you considered defining or describing what good writing in your discipline means for students? If you are assigning multiple drafts, does the course schedule allow time for you or your TAs to read and respond to drafts and also allow for students to read and consider comments in order to make appropriate revisions? (Students can usually revise a five-page paper in two or three days, and a ten-page paper in five days.) 3. Sheridan Center Resources to Help You and Your Students To arrange a consultation on designing a WRIT course, developing writing assignments, responding to student writing, or assessing writing assignments, please email [email protected]. You may encourage students to visit the Writing Center, where they can spend 60-minutes working one-on-one with a Writing Associate or English Language Support Specialist on clearly articulating and persuasively arranging their ideas in writing. If you wish to require Writing Center visits for your course, please first contact the Writing Center at [email protected]. Additionally, you may contact us if you would like the Writing Center to visit your classes to facilitate peer response sessions and/or writing groups. The Writing Center is also available to develop a workshop or presentation that addresses the needs of a faculty member’s particular course and writing objectives. 4. Web Resources to Support Your Work The Sheridan Center offers digital resources on course and syllabus design, effective classroom practices, and assessment. The Harvard Writing Project has well-developed resources for faculty regarding writing assignment design and response methods. Carnegie Mellon University maintains a page of resources for faculty teaching writing across the disciplines; their guidance on creating rubrics to assist with writing assessment is particularly useful and includes sample rubrics from across the disciplines. University of Michigan’s Sweetland Center for Writing has also developed an extensive page of resources for faculty members teaching writing across the curriculum, including information about collaborative projects, working with multilingual writers, and facilitating effective peer review. The WAC Clearinghouse, hosted by Colorado State University, maintains a database of resources on writing across the curriculum for both faculty and students, including open-access student-centered readings on writing. References Sommers, Nancy. Responding to Student Writers. Boston, Mass.: Bedford/St. Martin's, 2013. Print. Teaching & Learning Resources Teaching Resources Teaching in Times of Disruption Course Design Classroom Practices Digital Teaching & Learning Working with TAs Teaching Writing Writing Fellows Courses Teaching a WRIT Course A Guide to the Writing Support (WSUP) Flag for Faculty Teaching Statements & Portfolios Mentoring Resources Inclusive Teaching The Sheridan Center The Sheridan Center Brown University Box 1912 Sciences Library 201 Thayer Street, 7th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1219 Fax: 401-863-6976 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top