Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Healthcare Innovation Management Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Healthcare Innovation Management Certificate (Graduate) Apply Events Request More Info Healthcare Innovation Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management Learn to build, lead and manage next-generation healthcare systems with the Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management in the Fox School of Business at Temple University. This 12-credit graduate certificate is designed for current professionals seeking to focus on innovative, nontraditional approaches to healthcare delivery. Hybrid course formats provide the best of both online and in-person learning experiences. The U.S. healthcare system is undergoing dramatic changes as a result of market forces, consumer expectations, provider reimbursement and technology that drive innovations in delivery, financing, payment and organizational structure. The Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management provides students with a customized path to understanding and adapting to these evolving changes in the healthcare system. The credits earned as part of this certificate may also be transferred into graduate degree programs, such as the Master of Health Administration or the Master of Science in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship. The Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management is a joint effort between the Department of Risk, Insurance and Healthcare Innovation Management and the Department of Strategic Management within the Fox School of Business. Request Information Learn more about the Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Request Information Apply Classes & Curriculum Courses within the Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management program include Advanced Healthcare Economics and Finance, Business Model Innovation, Creativity Unleashed, Entrepreneurial Thinking, Health Systems Organization and Development, Open Innovation Strategy, and Social Entrepreneurship. Learn more about required courses within the Healthcare Innovation Management Graduate Certificate. Related Graduate Degrees Master of Health Administration Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship MS Careers Graduates of the Healthcare Innovation Management Graduate Certificate are prepared to advance their current careers within the healthcare management field, innovating new answers to established questions and pushing the boundaries of the industry. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact There are two faculty directors for the Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Innovation Management. You can contact them for questions regarding the program or your application. Carla Jackie Simpson is the assistant professor and director of Healthcare Management programs. Email: professorsampson@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-7293 Robert C. McNamee is the program director for the MS in Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship. Email: robert.mcnamee@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-4119 Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-HCIM-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Healthcare Innovation Management Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info