Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Give to the UW Menu Home Ways to give Get involved Alumni and friends Students Parents Faculty and staff Corporations and foundations Recognition Be Boundless Campaign The President’s Circle Cumulative Giving Recognition Henry Suzzallo Society Gates Volunteer Service Award Report to Contributors Contacts Giving FAQs Give now My UW Giving Home Give to the UW Get involved Students Students Close Menu Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction When it comes to student gifts, there’s strength in numbers. Your gift doesn’t need to be large to make a difference — your support combined with the gifts from fellow students can have an impact you perhaps never thought possible. Your gift is a vote of confidence that inspires alumni and friends to give more — and ignites a collective effort to ensure that students and faculty at the UW continue to make a lasting difference today and for years to come. Did you know you can directly support programs you feel passionate about? Why not take a few minutes to search for a fund that supports what you believe in? Do you want to be more involved? Contribute to the Senior Class Gift campaign Each year at Commencement, the graduating class presents the Senior Class Gift to the University. The Senior Class Gift is a gesture of thanks to the students who came before them, and a commitment to ensure that those who come after will benefit from outstanding educational opportunities. Become a student caller Looking for a rewarding job? At the UW Calling Program, students gather in the evenings and weekends with one collective goal – to connect with alumni, parents and friends. Callers share up-to-date news about the University and help raise funds to support initiatives across UW. Callers earn a good wage, learn about fundraising and gain valuable professional skills. To learn more, email Nikki Macias at dfmacias@uw.edu. Home Get involved Alumni and friends Students Senior Class Gift Student Calling Program Parents Faculty and staff Payroll Deduction Search for: University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA