Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. International Services International Services right arrow down arrow Admissions and Arrival right arrow down arrow Cost and Finances Apply to UC right arrow down arrow Transfer to UC Exchange and Visiting Student Programs DACA Students Next Steps to Enroll Orientation & Check-in Visas and Immigration right arrow down arrow Students right arrow down arrow F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns right arrow down arrow J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees Life at UC right arrow down arrow Student Experiences Essential Resources right arrow down arrow Housing and Dining Transportation Finances Healthcare and Insurance Law and Safety Academics Student Employment right arrow down arrow On Campus Off Campus OPT (F-1 Students) right arrow down arrow OPT Seminar CPT (F-1 Students) Fellowships and Assistantships (J-1) Academic Training (J-1) Social Life Hiring, Hosting and Admitting right arrow down arrow Hiring International Workers right arrow down arrow Students Hosting Visitors and Delegations Admitting Students Using iBearcatsGlobal Credential Evaluation Taxes right arrow down arrow How to File right arrow down arrow Non-Resident with US Income Non-Resident with No Income Resident Alien with No Tax Treaty Resident Alien with a Tax Treaty SSN & ITIN right arrow down arrow Social Security Tax Refund Contact Us iBearcatsGlobal Home » About UC » International Services » Visas and Immigration » Students » J-1 Students Set Navigation title in component Students F-1 Students J-1 Students Faculty, Staff and Interns J-1 Scholars J-1 Interns H-1B Workers E-3 Status O-1 Status TN Status Permanent Residency Dependents Change Your Status Government Updates Visa Fees J-1 Student Visa The J-1 student visa is a nonimmigrant status primarily for students who are coming as exchange visitors. If you receive a DS-2019 from the University of Cincinnati, you should apply for a J-1 visa. Apply for a Visa After you apply to the University of Cincinnati, you will go through a multi-step process in order to get your student visa. Learn how to apply for a visa Maintain Your Visa Status As an international student, you need to pay attention to all the US laws and regulations that apply to you. If you do not, you could be deported and barred from returning for some time. We want you to successfully complete your program at UC. Enroll in Courses Full-Time right arrow down arrow International students are required by federal regulations to be enrolled full-time each semester. For undergraduate students, this means 12 credit hours For graduate students, it means 10 credit hours You are allowed to enroll for online distance education courses. However, there is limit to how many credit hours you can use of online courses to fulfill your full-time enrollment requirement. International students may count only the equivalent of one class or three credits per semester toward the full course of study requirement. You are not limited in the number of online distance education courses you can take, you are only limited in the number of credit hours you can count toward fulfilling the full-time enrollment requirement. For example, if you are an undergraduate student you would need to be enrolled for at least 9 credit hours of traditional courses. You could then use one class (or three credit hours) of online distance education courses to reach the full-time enrollment threshold and, if desired, enroll for more online classes to increase your overall credit hours. Apply for Travel Authorization right arrow down arrow If you want to travel outside the US, you need a travel signature from UC International Services on your Form I-20. Complete and submit a Request for a Travel Signature eForm on iBearcatsGlobal at least 5 days prior to the anticipated travel date. We encourage you to submit the form even earlier. Work Legally in the United States right arrow down arrow Students may work on campus no more than 20 hours per week while school is in session. These 20 hours include the work you do for your assistantship if you have one. You are not permitted to work off-campus without receiving prior authorization from the US Federal Government and/or UC International Services. If you are interested in working in the United States, refer to our webpage outlining employment options for students. Meet Health Insurance Requirements right arrow down arrow All international students are required to carry the University of Cincinnati Student Health Insurance policy unless they can prove coverage equal to or greater than the University policy. If you are not registered for at least 6 credit hours or more, you will not be eligible for the University Student Health Insurance policy. However, you must have insurance while in the United States. Report Address Changes right arrow down arrow If you are an F-1 student, you must file your change of address with the University within 10 days of moving. This includes address changes of any of your dependents as well. You can notify the university of this change by completing the Change of Local U.S. Address eForm on iBearcatsGlobal and by updating your personal information in Catalyst. Report Departures right arrow down arrow If you leave the University before the program completion date on your I-20 or DS-2019, you are required to inform UC International Services that you are leaving and why you are doing so. Use the Departure Certification eForm on iBearcatsGlobal to notify us. Some common reasons include early graduation, leave of absence, suspension, expulsion, or family emergencies. Report School Transfers right arrow down arrow You are currently authorized to study or conduct research at the University of Cincinnati. If you decide to study or work at another school in the US, you must notify UC International of your intent to transfer and what school you plan on transferring to. Complete a SEVIS Transfer Out eForm Request in iBearcatsGlobal. UC International will then enter a "Release" date in SEVIS. After this date is reached, the new school can issue you a SEVIS I-20 or DS-2019. You will then have to report to the Designated School Official/Responsible Officer at the new school within 15 days of the program start date. Length of Stay The length of time you can stay in the United States on exchange visitor status is determined by the general limitations for the category and the length of time outlined by your visa type. The expiration date on your visa is not the date that you need to leave by; it is the last date in which you can enter the US in general. Non-degree J-1 students have a maximum stay of (2) two years. Degree-seeking J-1 Students do not have a maximum stay limitation. You may extend for as long as necessary to complete the program of study provided you are studying full time and making good academic progress. When do I need to leave, specifically? right arrow down arrow Take a look at the Form I-94 online. You must exit the US on or before the departure date listed on the I-94. Grace Period right arrow down arrow Certain visa statuses have a grace period following their duration of stay. For example, F-1 students have a 60-day grace period, and J-1 visa holders have a 30-day grace period. This means that J-1 students have thirty days past the "Duration of Stay" date on their DS-2019 to leave the country. Program Extensions right arrow down arrow If you want to extend your stay in the US, you must do so prior to the expiration of your I-20 / DS-2019. If you stay longer than authorized, you may be barred from returning or deported from the United States. You may apply to extend your stay if: You were lawfully admitted into the United States with a nonimmigrant visa Your nonimmigrant visa status remains valid You have not committed any crimes that make you ineligible for a visa You have not violated the conditions of your admission Your passport is valid and will remain valid for the duration of your stay Submit an Extension of Program eForm through iBearcatsGlobal. A UC International advisor will review your documents and schedule you for an appointment. Options After Graduation right arrow down arrow As you approach the end of your program of study, you can: Apply for Academic Training work authorization. You must apply before your program completion date. Apply for a change of status if you are not subject to the two-year home residency requirement. The application must be received before the end of your grace period. Transfer to a new program. You will need to have your transfer approved by UC International before the end of your grace period. Start a new program of study at UC. You must be fully admitted, and apply for and receive a new I-20 before the end of the grace period. Updated financial documentation will be required. Leave the United States before the end of the grace period. J-1 Two-Year Home Residency Requirement right arrow down arrow As an exchange visitor, you may not be eligible to apply for or change to other visa statuses in the US until you have resided and been physically present in your country of nationality or last legal permanent residence for a minimum of two years following your departure from the United States. These restrictions apply in any of the following cases: When your participation was financed in whole or part, directly or indirectly, by an agency of the US government or by the government of your home country. You had skills necessary to your country under the Exchange Visitor Skills List when you applied for your J visa. You acquired exchange visitor status in order to receive graduate medical education or training. Waive the Home Residency Requirement Exchange visitors who are subject to the home residency requirement may apply for a waiver under any one of the five applicable grounds: "No Objection" statement from the home government Request by an interested (US) Government Agency Persecution Exceptional hardship to a United States citizen (or permanent resident) spouse or child of an exchange visitor Request by a designated State Department of Health or its equivalent Request a waiver UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 international.students@uc.edu UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati UC International 7148 Edwards Center One 47 W. Corry Blvd. Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-4278 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top