Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Alumni Menu Search Alumni Events SMU Alumni Travel Program SMU Alumni Travel Program Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Enhance your lifetime connection to SMU as you travel to points ranging from exotic ports of the Orient to quaint villages in France. Take advantage of unique opportunities to visit exciting destinations and learn about their culture, history and art. SMU Alumni partners with premiere tour operators dedicated to creating first class educational travel experiences for alumni associations and other educational organizations. Our travel program is open to SMU alumni, parents, and friends. These trips are not exclusive to SMU, other alumni associations will also be traveling with you. We are proud to work with the following preferred travel partners: Go Next Travel, and Thomas P. Gohagan & Company. For more information, contact the Office of Alumni Relations at 214-768-2586 or e-mail smualum@mail.smu.edu. Is there a place you want to visit and do not see on our list? Tell us where you would like to go or visit us on Facebook. Disclaimer: The Southern Methodist University Office of Alumni Relations and Engagement provides these programs as a service to our alumni; their inclusion should not be considered an endorsement of the products and services provided by these vendors. The vendors supplying the products and services herein are solely responsible for: (a) providing and administering the products and services; (b) all of the information, statements and representations with respect to the products and services. Southern Methodist University (SMU) disclaims all responsibility and liability whatsoever for any information, statements, representations, products or services provided to you by these vendors. Any action you take with respect to the products and services will be at your own risk without any recourse or liability whatsoever to SMU. Apply NowVisit Us Back to top Academics Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Science Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education & Human Development SMU CAPE SMU Libraries The Guildhall Audience Links Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Media Parents Quick Links SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Bush Center SMU Store Academic Calendar Events Calendar Employment Giving to SMU Virtual Tour Get in Touch Contact Us Maps Directions Compliance Legal Disclosures Report Sexual Harassment Reporting a BIAS Incident HEERF Reporting Emergency Preparedness Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Groups and Networks Regional Alumni Networks Alumni Affinity Groups Golden Mustangs SMU Network Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Update your info Events Upcoming Events 50-Year Reunion Homecoming Distinguished Alumni Awards Taos Cultural Institute SMU Alumni Travel Program Volunteer Opportunities Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Black Alumni Board Hispanic Alumni Board Asian Pacific Islander Alumni Board Hilltop Volunteers Career Mentoring Admission Volunteers Class Ambassadors Regional Chapter Leaders News and Stories Featured Stories Mustangs in the Wild SMU News Class Notes SMU Magazine SMU Stories Resources Hegi Career Center Continuing Education Order a transcript SMU Bookstore Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Refer a Mustang SMU Alumni Relations Giving Give now Alumni Giving SMU Giving Day Mustang Crowdfunding News Athletics SMU Store Cox Alumni Dedman Alumni Dedman Law Alumni Meadows Alumni Perkins Simmons Alumni Update your info Submit a class note Give Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search