Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Schiller Institute Menu Main Nav The Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society Schiller Institute Giving Opportunities Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Giving Opportunities Join Our Team Faculty Positions Schiller Reports Academics Overview Courses Global Public Health and the Common Good About People Emily Aarons Hannah Chapdelaine Alissa Kim Mary Pat Lee Summer Mills Abby Clifford Brittney Gedeon Haley Grieco-Page Jenna Mu Jack Murray Alex Pastrana Jane Rasweiler Mansi Shah Claire Spielmann Benjamin Varieur Kurt Straif Tara Casebolt Carolina Battle Sebastian Cota Minor in Global Public Health Research Collaborations & Advocacy Publications Newsletter Initiatives Overview Confronting Environmental Racism Planning Commitee Schiller Student Challenge Schiller Student Challenge Projects Environmental Racism Events Event Archive Global Observatory on Pollution and Health Interdisciplinary Research Buildings Workshop Research Overview Schiller Institute Grants SIGECS Program Description and Application FY22 SIGECS Grantees News & Events Overview Spring 2022 Events Close Giving Opportunities Directory A to Z Listing Search Schiller Institute Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close At the Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society, researchers are using science and technology to search for solutions to society’s most pressing challenges, while educating the next generation of science leaders. Play Video: Watch Phil Schiller and Kim Gassett-Schiller talk about their vision for the Schiller Institute. Introducing: 245 Beacon Street The newly-opened facility features 150,000 square feet of office and laboratory space, classrooms, maker spaces, and common areas, and is home to the Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society. Engineering Chair Glenn Gaudette at work in the new facility. The building's design encourages collaboration. A laboratory in the new Integrated Science Building. The $150-million building is the largest single investment in the sciences at Boston College. Auditorium space for events and lectures. The building will ultimately house as many as 22 principal investigators working in areas of health, energy, and the environment. An exterior view of the building, designed by the architectural firm Payette and constructed by Suffolk. The sunlit main staircase offers views of campus. Classroom space for one of four new academic programs housed in the facility. Engineering Chair Glenn Gaudette at work in the new facility. The building's design encourages collaboration. A laboratory in the new Integrated Science Building. The $150-million building is the largest single investment in the sciences at Boston College. Auditorium space for events and lectures. The building will ultimately house as many as 22 principal investigators working in areas of health, energy, and the environment. An exterior view of the building, designed by the architectural firm Payette and constructed by Suffolk. The sunlit main staircase offers views of campus. Classroom space for one of four new academic programs housed in the facility. Engineering Chair Glenn Gaudette at work in the new facility. The building's design encourages collaboration. A laboratory in the new Integrated Science Building. The $150-million building is the largest single investment in the sciences at Boston College. Auditorium space for events and lectures. The building will ultimately house as many as 22 principal investigators working in areas of health, energy, and the environment. An exterior view of the building, designed by the architectural firm Payette and constructed by Suffolk. The sunlit main staircase offers views of campus. Classroom space for one of four new academic programs housed in the facility. « » Latest Schiller Institute News Lessons learned at COP26 Boston College attendees at the U.N. Climate Change Conference reflect on takeaways and the road from here. Simulated WHO session BC undergrads take part in negotiations surrounding the World Health Organization’s COVID-19 response. BC physicists win CAREER awards Assistant Professors Qiong Ma and Benedetta Flebus are recognized by the National Science Foundation.f Culturally responsive care BC School of Social Work researcher explores how racism and sexism hamper interventions to improve mental health, especially in young people. BC hosts ImpACCt Design Summit Competition for students from Boston College and other ACC schools involved application of design thinking. Exploring the intersection of art and science A $300,000 NSF grant will allow Boston College physicist Andrzej Herczynski to continue studying how 'seemingly disparate disciplines' connect. view all news Featured Event Transitioning to Equitable Clean Energy in Cities: A Pathway Forward Back To Top Back To Top The Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society 617-552-3503 schiller.institute@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College