Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Philosophy Undergraduate Graduate People Research News & Events Resources Contact Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Program Resources About M.A. Program Requirements Ph.D. Program Requirements Current Graduate Students Graduate Courses Erasmus Mundus Program Philosophical Horizons Financial aid/awards Bornblum Travel Award Study Abroad Placement How to Apply Other Resources Take Action Apply to the Graduate Program Online B.A. 3+3 Accelerated BA/JD Program Minor in Legal Thought and Liberal Arts Support the Department Follow Us Online Facebook Home Philosophy Graduate Graduate Degree in Philosophy Admissions Admission to the Graduate Programs Introduction This page provides information about admission to the MA and PhD programs in philosophy at the University of Memphis. This page is intended as a helpful supplement to the university's Graduate Catalog, which is available at this link: Graduate Catalog. In any case of conflict, the Graduate Catalog takes precedence over information given on this page. Students should be familiar with the policies and regulations set forth in that document. Admission Requirements Prospective students are admitted in the fall semester of each academic year. Admission is very competitive, and the process is guided by the following expectations. (1) A bachelor's degree or equivalent from an accredited college or university. (2) A minimum of a 3.0 (4.0 scale). (3) At least 18 semester hours of coursework in philosophy or a closely related discipline. A Note on Coursework As in any discipline, advanced study in philosophy builds upon a basic foundation of undergraduate coursework. Well-prepared students, therefore, will typically be philosophy majors, with coursework in logic, ethics, metaphysics, epistemology, and the history of western philosophy (especially ancient and modern). The philosophy department at the University of Memphis recognizes, however, that good philosophical training is not always limited to philosophy departments. If a student lacks some of this coursework in philosophy, yet believes that they are nevertheless well-prepared for graduate work in one of our programs, they are encouraged to make their case in their statement of purpose. Students deemed deficient in their undergraduate preparation may be admitted to the program on the condition that one or more courses be taken without graduate credit at the earliest opportunity. How to Apply To be considered for admission to the MA or PhD program, you must submit an online application: The system will ask you to create a user account and it will offer instructions throughout the process. The application deadline is January 01, 2023. Applications incomplete by the express deadline might not receive full consideration. The application fee is $35 for domestic applicants and $60 for international applicants. To be complete, your application must contain the following components: Application Requirements (1) Completed online application. (2) Transcripts (3) A statement of purpose (1 - 2 pages) (4) A writing sample (10 - 20 pages) (5) Three confidential letters of recommendation (initiated within the online application). Letters should be on letterhead with an original signature. Application Deadline The deadline for receipt of all application materials is January 01, 2023. Admission Questions For further information on the new application portal, visit the Graduate Admissions page. https://www.memphis.edu/graduateadmissions/future/apply_grad.php For further information regarding admission to one of our graduate programs, please contact the Director of Graduate Admissions, Dr. Michael Monahan at mjmnahan@memphis.edu. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 5/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.