Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Home About History Staff Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events News Programs + Initiatives Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Site Navigation Home About History Staff Advisors Postdoctoral, Faculty, and Graduate Fellows Visiting Faculty Practitioner Fellows Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Events Past Events Co-sponsorship Requests Featured Events Around Campus Signature Series Underlying Conditions The Third Rail Series Writing for a Broken World What I Am Thinking About Now "First Works" Series Race at the Center of the Humanities New Book Talks STEM Conversation Series Dr. Jean Shim Yun Lecture Series Graduate Professionalization Workshop Series Critical Conversations Summer Reading Series News Programs + Initiatives How Structural Racism Works Project CSREA Fellows Program Brown Faculty Fellows Visiting Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellows Brown Practitioner Fellows Practitioner Fellows Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Fellows Faculty Research + Teaching Development Faculty Grants Course Innovation Grant Humanities Lab The Mass Incarceration Lab @ CSREA Manuscript Workshops Opportunities For Graduate Students Event Recordings Give to CSREA Race & Series Message from the Director March 20, 2022 Dear CSREA Community, The past two years have been a profound challenge, to say the least. As I write to you, we continue to contend with one of the greatest health-related global crises in modern memory. Although we have not yet tallied the societywide destruction it has left in its wake, we can safely say that the impact of COVID-19 has been devastating. And, a range of other crises, in particular the murders of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and countless others served as profound catalysts for a painful reckoning in American society with the continued violence and institutionalization of anti-Black racism. At Brown, as was the case on many University campuses, we all had to figure out how to adjust to these new and turbulent conditions while continuing to educate, take care of our students, ourselves and the people around us, build community, and support research. At CSREA, we really took this challenge to heart. We felt strongly that this was an especially important time for us to be timely, relevant, and accessible. Through those adjustments, we’ve found new ways of reaching and engaging communities that were left behind by the status quo. During the academic year, we hosted a record-breaking number of events and programs, more than we have ever mounted before. In addition to our many established programs, we created new ones designed to help us make sense of the dizzying world around us. These programs were designed specifically for virtual viewing such as Underlying Conditions, short video interviews on COVID-related inequities, and Race & in America, a Brown faculty panel series exploring the impacts of racism on a range of research and creative areas from genetics, to democracy, to the arts. This work is always due to the incredible, dedicated staff at CSREA. Nothing would happen without their expertise, creativity, and goodwill. But this year, they deserve even more appreciation for what they accomplished under such enormous pressure. Joy + Justice, Tricia Rose Director of the Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America Chancellor’s Professor of Africana Studies Associate Dean of the Faculty for Special Initiatives P.S. The work of the Center requires resources and sustained financial support. As a funding priority in the BrownTogether campaign, CSREA is poised to become a more generative force in fueling the discovery of new modes of thinking by faculty, artists, and community leaders on the most pressing social, political, and cultural concerns in contemporary society. We hope you’ll consider supporting our work. About History Staff Message from the Director Location & Contact Information Annual Reports CSREA Q&A with Tricia Rose Stay Connected Subscribe to our newsletter Visit Our YouTube Channel The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) Brown University Box 2032 96 Waterman Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-5775 Fax: 401-863-5784 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top