Skip to main content is a commitment to do extraordinary things. Watch the Video We know that nothing is ever handed to us — but that’s what inspires us. To make discoveries, to better our lives, to change our world. To be Knights. It’s in us. Our goals and dreams, our purpose and possibilities. And rather than accept what has been, we define and achieve what could be — by being our best. Unstoppable Marcie (Swilley) Washington ’83 has broken boundaries and overcome life’s challenges — and she isn’t stopping any time soon. Read Her Story Expanding Possibilities A group of trailblazing Knights became the first class to graduate from UCF’s Inclusive Education Services program. Learn About IES With Heart One year after suffering a heart attack, 49-year-old Sonia Cox ’18 fulfilled her lifelong dream of earning a college degree. Explore the Dream We create pathways for success that extend far beyond our walls, unleashing a ripple effect that benefits our neighborhoods, our nation and our world. In Their Words Since 2010, the UCF history department has been collecting stories of veterans living in Central Florida. Here is part of the rich legacy they’re preserving. Relive History Fostering Growth In partnership with Nemours Hospital, Knights are providing tailored instruction to children with chronic illnesses. Helping Children Prosthetics for the People A team at UCF is part of the first U.S. clinical trial for 3D-printed bionic prosthetics for children, which will help determine if the devices will be covered by health insurance. Better Prosthetics We are not bound by centuries of tradition. From our groundbreaking research to our approach to education, it’s clear. We do things differently. Where You Are Online education may have its detractors in higher education, but across the nation, students are driving a shift from classroom to digital learning. And UCF is all in. Learn Online Pathways to Success A groundbreaking partnership program with state colleges expands opportunities for students who may not otherwise be able to complete a degree. View the Success Rings True Using data from the Cassini mission, UCF researchers created a 3D map of Saturn’s largest innermost ring, offering insight into how planets form. Explore the Universe We are bold enough to forge our own path, to break barriers, to solve big problems and to always reach for the stars. Wired to Win How UCF’s programming team became No. 1 in North America (and beat Harvard, MIT and Stanford). History of Winning Shattering the Competition UCF’s first all-female cybersecurity team placed third in a national cybersecurity competition — while being the only all-female team to compete. Representing Women Shaping Policy A Knight was selected to provide technical and scientific perspectives to members of Congress’ decision making-process. Informing Congress We know that good health is paramount to a good life. It’s why we’re committed to taking care of ourselves and others. A Match Above This year’s graduating medical class matched with residencies nationwide at a rate of 99 percent — higher than this year’s national average of 93.9 percent. Learn What’s Next Fighting Memory Loss UCF researchers have found a way to remove brain plaque linked to Alzheimer’s disease. Discover How The Human Factor Patient simulators developed at UCF are changing how we educate the next generation of nurses. Treating Patients University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida