Skip to main content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Strategic Objectives and Priorities Strategic Objectives Partners in Research The Library partners with faculty, students, and staff in research activities locally, nationally and internationally. Our library experts are embedded at critical points in the research lifecycle providing collections, information resources, innovative tools and services to support scholarly inquiry. The Library is committed to partnering with faculty and students to enhance and showcase Dartmouth scholarly output and entrepreneurial endeavors. Co-Educators in Teaching and Learning In collaboration with faculty and other strategic partners, the Library provides immersive and transformative learning experiences by engaging in all aspects of the educational continuum, preparing students for a lifetime of learning and responsible leadership as informed global citizens. The Library proactively supports undergraduate, graduate, and professional student academic success through innovative educational programs. Inspiring Environments for Inspiring Ideas The Library is dedicated to creating a variety of welcoming and inspiring physical and digital environments. These environments, which our students, faculty and patrons inhabit, offer creative workspaces for individual and collaborative scholarly enquiry and aim to promote well-being as well as stimulate innovative thinking through user-centered design approaches. Strategic Priorities Collaborate with faculty and key stakeholders to enhance and support new modes of scholarship, applied practice and research innovation at Dartmouth. Lead on the development and use of tools and services for the creation, dissemination, discovery, and preservation of Dartmouth research and collections. Partner with students, faculty and other strategic partners on curriculum design and teaching to enrich Dartmouth’s teacher/scholar model through the innovative use of library resources and expertise. Connect students and faculty with resources at the point of need, anytime, anywhere through enhanced discovery tools. Develop digital library environments for collaborative interaction that meet the needs of 21st century scholars. Provide inspiring and inclusive learning environments and staff expertise, both centrally and in strategically located library hubs across campus. Contribute to global scholarship through our unique collections, the Dartmouth Digital Library and Dartmouth Digital Learning Initiatives. Empower library staff to engage in new roles to enrich Dartmouth’s teaching, learning and research initiatives. Attract new philanthropic and grant funding in support of strategic priorities. About Us Service Updates Visiting and History Strategic Objectives Privacy Policy Collections Department and Staff Directory Dean of Libraries Sue Mehrer Council on Libraries Friends of the Library Careers Fellowships Awards 250th Celebration Hindsight Is 20/19 Historical Accountability Student Research Program Open Education Initiative Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy