COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News WSU Varsity Esports now has customized jerseys from Agent Ink Apparel. September 25, 2019Innovation CampusesportsCampus LifeCollege of Applied Studies New partnership provides custom jerseys for WSU Varsity Esports By Kayla Deines, marketing intern Agent Ink Apparel has partnered with Wichita State to become the official outfitter for WSU Varsity Esports. They recently delivered custom jerseys to the team and released the final design on social media. Joey Nowlin, founder and CEO of Agent Ink Apparel, participated in the WSU Center for Entrepreneurship’s 2019 summer E-Launch program, which helps develop entrepreneurial activity that leads to the commercialization of ideas. Nowlin worked with the Center and WSU Ventures to refine his idea of providing premium jersey designs and prints to collegiate esports teams. “It was a great opportunity to learn about what our customers want and what they need,” he said. “It opened my eyes to see how Agent Ink Apparel can best serve our customers and grow to become the best we can be.” Fans and supporters of WSU Varsity Esports can now purchase the official WSU Esports merchandise on Agent Ink Apparel’s website. WSU Esports WSU features four competitive varsity gaming teams: Overwatch, League of Legends, Counter Strike and Rocket League. As the landscape of higher education continues to change, Wichita State is at the forefront of programming and development utilizing esports as another avenue to impact students. Visit the website Kayla Deines Kayla Deines is a senior studying Integrated Marketing Communication in the Elliott School of Communication. She is a marketing intern in the Office of Strategic Communications. Read more stories like this Related Stories Athletics WSU Esports varsity team marks a milestone for the program Graduate Profiles Meet a Shocker: Emily Crawford Talent Pipeline Home for digital transformation rising on Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies Credit Union of America pledges $250,000 gift, recognized as Champion for College of Applied Studies 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©