Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Common Curriculum Course Search General Education General Education Foundations Breadth Advantages For Students Graduation Requirements Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Faculty FAQs CC Course Proposals Assessment Rubrics Student Resources Student Resources Student FAQs Petitioning Courses Transfer Students Staff and Advisor Resources Staff and Advisor Resources CC Course Proposals CC Requirements Petition Forms UC 2016 Contact Us ☰ Common Curriculum remote office hours are available Mondays 1pm-3pm via Zoom & Thursdays 9am-11am via Zoom during Fall/Spring/Summer terms when classes are in session. Pop-Ups are held Wednesdays from 2pm-4pm in Fondren Library next to Starbucks. Office of Curricular Innovation and Policy Undergraduate Curriculum Common Curriculum Common Curriculum The SMU Common Curriculum is a general education framework that prepares students to be lifelong learners in a rapidly changing, interconnected world. The Common Curriculum is the twenty-first century reboot of the classical university education, challenging students to know the past, understand the present, and build the future. The SMU Common Curriculum is for students entering Fall 2020 or later. General Education Mission Statement: The essence of Southern Methodist University’s educational philosophy is that intellectual and professional excellence rises from the solid foundation of a liberal arts education. Most importantly, general education should provide an intellectual foundation consisting of the broad outlines of human knowledge, providing a context for discipline-specific study, and a framework for a future of lifelong learning. In light of these considerations, an ideal general education course is one which builds a broad, context-rich framework in its content area. To the extent possible, it should transcend departmental boundaries, connecting to ideas in related fields, and relevant social and ethical questions. FAQs Resources Requirements University Curriculum (matriculation Fall 2016 to Spring 2020) How do we help our students? General Education: Foundations Foundation requirements ensure all students have the building blocks of a solid, university education, including solid writing and reasoning skills. FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS General Education: Breadth Breadth requirements investigate the problems of the world through diverse intellectual frameworks, allowing students to understand the problems and issues we face, their origins and evolutions, as well as possible solutions. BREADTH REQUIREMENTS Graduation Requirements: Proficiencies & Experiences Proficiencies and experiences give students the skills they need to succeed in the workplace and the tools they need to work with increasingly diverse colleagues and audiences. All components push students beyond the boundaries of the traditional classroom, encouraging them to apply their learning in the community and the wider world. PROFICIENCY REQUIREMENTS The CC prepares students for the future by providing educational foundations, resources to grow and opportunities to thrive in any environment. An Education For Life A comprehensive liberal arts education that exposes students to multiple ways to frame knowledge and solve problems. Foundation courses make sure all students are ready for a university education. Develops students critical thinking ability in multiple domains. Grounding in Humanities, Arts, Social Sciences, and STEM gives students the interdisciplinary formation to become problem solvers and life-long learners. Breadth courses introduce students to all major subject/disciplines at the university. LEARN MORE Advantages For Students Easy to follow and fulfill. Transfer friendly. Allows for multiple majors/minors. Includes a wide range of classes from across the university. AP and IB can be used to fulfill a range of requirements. Value and learning outcomes clearly described for each component. LEARN MORE Preparation For The Workplace Prepares students to work in a globalized society with people from all backgrounds and nations. Encourages students to think beyond the classroom and engage with the world. Provides students solid training and practice in written and oral communication. Develops students critical thinking and problem-solving ability in multiple domains. Provides formation and application in data analysis, technological competence, and ethics LEARN MORE Contact Information Office of the Common Curriculum theccmail@smu.edu Physical Address: Laura Lee Blanton Building Suite 102 Mailing Address: Southern Methodist University P.O. Box 750181 Dallas, Texas 75275-0181 Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share