Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Certificate (Graduate) High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Learn to solve real-world problems through computation with Graduate Certificate in High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications in Temple University’s College of Science and Technology. This 14-credit certificate is designed for working professionals seeking advanced training for greater job opportunity and career advancement. In this interdisciplinary graduate program, courses blend mathematics and science so you’re prepared to meet a growing need for professionals in applied mathematics, computational sciences, statistics and traditional scientific fields. You’ll discover the architecture of high-performance computing systems, computational methods used in the sciences and engineering, mathematical techniques employed in high-performance computing, and software tools used in parallel calculations. You’ll learn to advance scientific knowledge and engineering practice through the efficient use of algorithms, hardware and programming. Acquire a fundamental understanding of the mathematical foundations and structure of numerical methods and parallel computing. The curriculum emphasizes hands-on experience and applied learning through lecture courses and intensive exercises, as well as collaborative group work that addresses professional industry problems in engineering and other scientific disciplines. Students solve basic programming problems and execute mathematical constructs relevant to scientific applications. Students interested in academic careers can study and apply the use of high-performance computation as a primary research instrument in the physical sciences, life sciences and engineering. Classes & Curriculum All classes are offered at 4:30 p.m. on Temple’s Main Campus. The curriculum comprises the following four required courses. Fundamentals of Computer Programming for Scientists and Engineers High-Performance Computer Programming for Scientific Modeling Introduction to High-Performance Computing Technology for Scientists Mathematical Methods for High-Performance Computing Students may replace one of the courses with any level graduate course as recommended by their advisor. Learn more about the curriculum for the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Certificate (Graduate). Careers Graduates are trained to apply high-performance computing across a variety of fields and are well prepared for positions in academia, government laboratories and industry. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that employment for computer and information research scientists will grow 16% between 2018 and 2028. Graduates are well-positioned to pursue careers in applications programming, computer science, computer systems research, cryptography, scientific programming and software development. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,205.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,567.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For general questions regarding the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Graduate Certficate, email cst.psm@temple.edu. Please contact the following staff members regarding the Cyber Defense and Information Assurance Graduate Certificate. Benjamin Seibold is an associate professor in the Mathematics Department and program director of the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM. Phone: 215-204-1656 Email: benjamin.seibold@temple.edu Daniel Szyld is a professor in the Mathematics Department and program director of the High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications PSM. Phone: 215-204-7288 Email: daniel.szyld@temple.edu Seema Freer is an associate professor of practice in the Biology Department and the managing director of PSM programs. Phone: 215-204-8842 Email: sfreer@temple.edu Accreditation As a division within Temple University, the College of Science and Technology is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. ST-HPC-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in High-Performance Computing for Scientific Applications Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community.