Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Political Science MA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Political Science MA Apply Request More Info Political Science MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Arts in Political Science Prepare for a robust career in academia and research with the Master of Arts in Political Science in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. Students in this 30-credit master’s degree program study politics and the exercise of domestic and international power through a curriculum that delivers a broad education in the general field of political science. In your coursework, you will gain a deep understanding of the key theoretical and methodological approaches to studying American and international politics, specifically through the lens of the following four major subfields. American politics, which emphasizes political behavior, economy and institutions as well as policy and urban politics. Comparative politics, which focuses on democratization, the role of the state in the economy and political violence. International relations, which applies a theoretical approach to world politics as well as the study of global security, international political economies and international organizations. Political theory, which delves into political questions of social and economic inequality in the late modernity period including globalization, identity politics and social movements. The program’s research-oriented curriculum promotes collaboration and engagement, and students graduate with expertise on the government and its impact on 21st century society. Temple’s Political Science faculty are nationally recognized for their research and publications. Program Format & Curriculum Students have three years to complete the Political Science MA program on a full- or part-time basis, with classes offered after 3:00 p.m. at Temple’s Main Campus. The 30-credit curriculum comprises two core courses, three subfield courses and five elective courses. The master's program culminates in an original scholarly paper based on arguments grounded in extensive research and reference to relevant primary and secondary sources. Core courses include the following. Political Statistics I Topics in Research Design Learn more about Political Science MA courses. Related Graduate Degrees Public Policy MPP Political Science PhD Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Political Science MA, contact the following staff member. LaTasha Goodman is the academic coordinator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: lgoodman@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Political Science Department. Robin Kolodny is the chair. Phone: 215-204-7709 Email: rkolodny@temple.edu Adam Ziegfeld is the graduate chair. Email: awz@temple.edu Jessica Brennan is the administrator. Phone: 215-204-7796 Email: jessica.brennan@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Political Science MA coursework and enhance your graduate experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-POLS-MA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Political Science MA Admissions Careers & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info