Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Sociology Home News People Programs On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Site Navigation Home News People Faculty Office and TA Lab Hours Ph.D. Students Master's Students Staff Programs Courses Undergraduate Programs A.B. in Sociology Sc.B. in Social Analysis and Research Organizational Studies Track (S/OS) Honors Transfer Credit Department Undergraduate Group (DUG) Ph.D. Program Funding Ph.D. Year by Year Awards Student Resources Student Publications Student Placements Master's in Social Analysis and Research Student Placements 5th-Year MSAR Apply Now On The Market Colloquia Diversity & Inclusion Apply Now Applications FAQ Apply Now We are often asked about how we make admissions decisions. Since we look at each case individually, it is difficult to make meaningful generalizations or to speak about average test scores or GPAs. Nonetheless, it is true that many of our admitted applicants have GRE scores in the top deciles, and all have very strong letters of recommendation and personal statements that evidence a good sense of fit with our department’s areas of research strength. Although a formal background in sociology is not a requirement for admissions, many of our incoming students do enter our program with Masters’ degrees in sociology or other related fields, and certainly a solid background in the social sciences and clear sense of direction is essential for early success. Our program requirements have been recently redeveloped to best prepare students for the competitive realities of the academic, public, and private sector job markets. Ph.D. Program The application process begins September 1st and ends December 15th. Specific inquiries not covered by the Ph.D. Program FAQ can be directed to the Director of Graduate Studies, Patrick Heller at [email protected]. Apply Now Master's of Social Analysis and Research Program The application process begins September 1st and ends February 1st. For admissions requirements, please visit the Graduate School. Specific inquiries not covered in the MSAR FAQ can be directed to the Associate Director of Masters of Social Analysis and Research, Carrie Spearin at [email protected]. Apply Now 5th-Year Master's of Social Analysis and Research Program The application process begins September 1st. The committee reviews applications on a rolling basis beginning March 1st and ending on May 31st. Applications must be received before completion of the undergraduate degree requirements. Specific inquiries not covered in the 5th-year MSAR FAQ can be directed to the Associate Director of Masters of Social Analysis and Research, Carrie Spearin at [email protected]. Apply Now For information on applying to Graduate School here at Brown, you may e-mail [email protected] or call them at (401) 863-2600. Apply Now Applications FAQ Department of Sociology Department of Sociology Brown University Box 1916 Maxcy Hall, 108 George Street Inner Campus – Lower Green Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2367 Fax: 401-863-3213 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top