Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Student Life Menu About Our Units Working at UW Student Life COVID-19 Info & Updates Support Student Life Living & dining On-Campus Housing Off-Campus Housing Fraternity Housing Sorority Housing Residential Dining Husky Den Food Court Groups & activities Associated Students of UW CIRCLE The Daily Ethnic Cultural Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Graduate and Professional Student Senate The HUB Husky Neighborhood Interns Peer Health Educators Q Center Recreation Residential Life Student Activities Office Unite UW: Once united, never divided Health Campus Food Pantry Counseling Crisis Connections Emergency Care Health Advocacy, Training & Education Medical Care Mental Health Recreation Digital Wellness 101: Taking Control of Your Life Online Task Force on Student Mental Health Campus safety Bias Incident Advisory Committee Community Standards and Student Conduct Husky NightWalk SafeCampus Sexual Assault Resources Student Care and Consultation UW Police Department UWPD Victim Advocacy Career prep Career & Internship Center Finding and maximizing campus jobs Blog Home Student Life Messages to the Community Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide May 17, 2022 Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide Hi Huskies, As sunnier, warmer weather (hopefully) becomes increasingly the norm, consider taking time away from your screen(s) and your studies to get outside and enjoy some of the outdoor wonders that Seattle and the Pacific Northwest have to offer. And, for the times you feel stuck in your books, remember – summer is near, Huskies! A note for graduates – Don’t miss another special Commencement section with news and reminders for your big day! Contents Health and Safety Connecting with Community Mental Health Moment Career and Internships Navigating UW Commencement 1. Health and Safety LiveWell eCheckup provides confidential, online alcohol self-assessment offering personalized feedback for UW Seattle Students. Get in the Game! Head to Red Square on May 23 to learn about joining the world’s largest marrow registry and saving a life. Grab a free shirt, take a photo with Dubs, and meet UW coaches and athletes. LiveWell Confidential Advocates provide a safe and confidential space to help students identify what they want or need after an incident of sexual assault, relationship violence, stalking, or sexual harassment has occurred. IF YOU HAVE COVID-19 SYMPTOMS If you are currently experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, please stay home and follow the instructions for what to do if you feel sick. Back to top 2. Connecting with Community Friday Night Activities at the IMA bring you roller skating and archery (not combined) every – you guessed it – Friday night. Bring a friend or make a new one there! Check out some of UW’s most talented artists and pick up something for you or a friend at the Spring Maker’s Fair on May 18 at the HUB. Dinner plans on May 19? Grab your tickets for ASUW Student Food Cooperative’s Humble Feast, a celebration of locally-sourced, organic, and sustainable food cooked by co-op students. Don’t miss the Undergraduate Research Symposium on May 20, one of the largest symposia for undergraduates in the country with over 700 students presenting diverse, interdisciplinary and cutting edge research addressing pressing critical issues of our time. Become a Dawg Daze Leader and help new students navigate UW by organizing and facilitating over 200 events. Applications are due June 1. Who’s ready for canoes? Boat rentals are open at the Waterfront Activities Center and students get 25% off! EVENTS & OPPORTUNITIES The UW Seattle Campus Calendar highlights opportunities to get involved around campus and connect with other Huskies. Back to top 3. Mental Health Moment Stress Breaks and Mindfulness Make a little time to try out UW Recreation’s Stress Break videos to help you decompress and recenter. Additionally, you may consider taking a specialty mindfulness class. NEED TO TALK? 24/7 consultation from a counselor is available to UW students through My Student Support Program (My SSP). If you are feeling overwhelmed, concerned about a friend, or you’re not sure what you need but you’d like to talk, My SSP is a great option. My SSP provides same-day, confidential mental health and crisis intervention support, 24/7 and in multiple languages. Connect via phone, online chat, or the My SSP app. Learn more at mentalhealth.uw.edu. Back to top 4. Career and Internships UW Husky Landing is a professional networking tool that helps UW students connect with alumni, mentors, professional development resources, industry advice, and other like-minded Huskies. FEATURED JOBS & COURSES There are jobs and internships out there, and it’s as important as ever to build your skills, experience, and network. Here are a few things you may want to check out: Job/internship postings (undergrad): REI – QA Analyst: Associate Software Engineer Intern Applications due May 23 Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center – Clinical Research Coordinator I Applications due May 27 Kimley-Horn – Marketing Coordinator Applications due May 23 Seattle Housing Authority – Housing Specialist Applications due May 31 L’Oreal – Junior HR Associate Applications due May 23 City of Woodinville – Public Works Summer Intern Applications due May 23 Job/internship postings (graduate): Easterseals Southern California – Coordinator, START Applications due June 30 Parametric – Research Intern Applications due June 1 Procter & Gamble (P&G) – PhD Scientist – Mass Spectrometry Applications due May 31 Mather Economics – Associate Consultant, Analytics Applications due June 1 Gilead Sciences – Postdoctoral Fellow – Oncology and Protein Therapeutics Applications due May 23 Center for Human Development – Mental Health Therapist Applications due October 13 CAREER SUPPORT The Career & Internship Center is here to support you with guidance and resources, including Handshake, UW’s online job and internship platform. Back to top 5. Navigating UW Whatever you’re into, there’s (probably) a way to turn it into a job! Take a 3-question quiz to learn what College of Arts & Sciences alumni with similar interests have done since graduating. Student Legal Services is an on-campus law office that provides a safe and confidential space for UW students who have legal questions or concerns. Get ready for finals with UW Libraries Open Scholarship Commons. Learn how to use and access free digital software and tools to bring your research to life. Book an appointment today to get a jump start on your final project! Elections to decide next year’s Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) officers will take place on May 18. Learn more about this year’s pre-nominated candidates. The Whole U Discounts page lists a range of discounts available to UW students, including adidas gear, Zipcar rentals, and more. ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATIONS Students with disabilities can request academic accommodations at any time through the Disability Resources for Students office. Learn more about accommodations. Back to top 6. Commencement Getting ready for the big celebration in Husky Stadium? Don’t forget to fill out the Registration/Order Form by May 22. Check out the over 100 college, school, department and cultural commencement ceremonies! Score a headshot for your online profile and raise a glass at UWAA’s Grads and GOLDs Night Out on May 18 at Bale Breaker & Yonder Cider Taproom. Learn more about four-time Tony Award-winning producer Ron Simons, a UW alumnus well known for his work on Broadway and in Hollywood, who will deliver the 2022 Commencement address. Recognize a special professor, advisor, family member or friend who made your UW years unforgettable with free thank you cards. Sign up by May 20 and UWAA will deliver them to your doorstep — you just sign, stamp and send! CONGRADULATIONS! Keep us up-to-date on your graduation celebrations using #uwgrad22 Learn more at washington.edu/graduation. Back to top Sign up for future Pawket Guide emails: Connect with us Email us or call 206-543-4972 Blog Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 4) – Husky Pawket Guide 2 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 3) – Husky Pawket Guide 4 weeks ago Spring 2022 Resources & Opportunities (Vol. 2) – Husky Pawket Guide 1 month ago Useful links Academic resources Academic calendar Disability Resources for Students Student Guide Libraries MyPlan MyUW Academic advising Diversity resources UAA Financial services Financial aid Tuition and fees Husky Card Getting around Campus map Transportation options U-PASS Student Life staff site University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA