Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022 Menu Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues $1.1 Billion and Counting Baylor>Baylor Magazine - Spring 2022>Give Light>$1.1 Billion and Counting $1.1 Billion and Counting Baylor alumni, parents and friends gathered together Feb. 3 at Atlanta’s Chick-fil-A College Football Hall of Fame in a celebration of gifts to the Give Light campaign surpassing $1.1 billion, the initial fundraising goal. The Give Light campaign is now the largest and most successful fundraising effort in the University’s 177-year history, as it continues to raise funds in support of Illuminate, the University’s strategic plan. “Today, we mark the surpassing of the Give Light campaign’s initial goal of raising $1.1 billion to support the mission and vision of Baylor University — a milestone that is only possible because of the generosity of our Baylor Family,” President Linda A. Livingstone, Ph.D., said. “More than 80,000 alumni, parents, faculty, staff, students, friends, foundations and corporations have given to Baylor to foster academic discovery, to grow our programs and outreach and to stand beside our students through scholarships. It has been heartening to see the Baylor Family support the University’s growth to become a preeminent Christian research university, strengthening the voice of Christian higher education. As we realize these significant steps forward, we are grateful anew for their commitment to our Christian mission. This is a milestone that we can all celebrate.” The Give Light campaign was publicly launched Nov. 1, 2018, as a comprehensive campaign to fund the academic aspirations and infrastructure needs for the University’s future as Baylor pursued preeminence as a Christian research university. In December 2021, Baylor announced it had been named a Research 1 university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, one of only 39 private institutions to be named. The R1 classification as a doctoral university with “very high research activity” elevates Baylor among the nation’s top research universities. Fundraising for the priorities of Illuminate continues through the Give Light campaign. Faculty endowment remains a priority through the Illuminate Chair Matching Program and scholarship support continues to be a priority with emphasis on merit and need scholarships through the Hord Scholarship Challenge and the Trailblazer Scholars Program. Baylor also continues to seek support for the Give Light Capital Fund to support capital projects like the Paul and Alejandra Foster Pavilion, the Mark and Paula Hurd Welcome Center and the Fudge Football Development Center. “The Give Light campaign has highlighted the incredible generosity of our Baylor Family,” Vice President for Advancement David Rosselli, A.B.C. ’17, said. “It is humbling to work at an institution where the alumni, parents and friends believe so deeply in the Christian mission and bold vision of this institution for becoming an even stronger voice in Christian higher education. We have further to go, but we are encouraged and propelled forward by their generosity. Baylor truly has a bright future, and it is being shaped by the giving of our Baylor Family.” Visit baylor.edu/givelight to find out more about the Give Light campaign’s priorities. Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Features Guiding BEARs Being Baylor Online 18 Online Professional Programs Impacting Our World Thasunda Brown Duckett, M.B.A. '01 Alex Le Roux, B.S. '15 Rebekah Naylor, B.A. '64, M.D Susan Peters, B.A. '86 Giancarlo Guerrero, B.M. '91 Christopher Scott, B.A. '04 Fran George, A.B.C. '16 The Meaning of R1 Along Fifth Street An Upward Trajectory Baylor Grads Finding Success After Graduation Georgia Senior Wins Churchill Scholarship The Best Hour of the Week Baylor's New Front Door Honoring Baylor's First Black Grads Baylor Law Moot Court Team Wins First Place Endowment Elevates FastBacc® Program New Sculpture Accents Truett Prayer Garden Honors Residential College Improvements Bears Roar on Twitter Caring for Student Mental Health Students Return to Spring Break Service Baylor Welcomes Black Business Student Association Baylor Pianist Wins National Honors Endeavors The Meaning of R1 Fanfare Elite Programs Our Time Lenard Looks to Lead Women's Soccer to New Heights Give Light $1.1 Billion and Counting Faces of Give Light 2022 Founders Medal Recipients: Paul and Alejandra Foster Alumni News & Notes Alumni-elected Regent Selection Barbara Calhoun Cargill Ryan D. Pratt Mark M. Shelton Class Notes A Global Bear Freddy's fronted by Baylor Bear Forbes Recognizes Baylor Alumna 1940s-60s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Friends & Family Bear Cub Corner In Memoriam Submit a Class Note or Obit Address Update A Look Back About About Baylor Magazine Subscribe Address Update Previous Issues