Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Washington, D.C. Home Connect Chapters District of Columbia Washington, D.C. District of Columbia Washington, D.C. There are approximately 6,500 Eagle Alums in the DMV area. DC based event attendees typically come from DC, Northern Virginia and Maryland. Key chapter events include: Networking Events: Always An Eagle Service Events: Global Days of Service, Wreaths Across America, USO Barbeque at Walter Reed Social Events: Various Happy Hour, Holiday Parties Athletic Events: Game Watches (at Across the Pond), Professional Sports Outings (Capitals, Nationals, etc.) Spiritual: Mass & Brunches, Faith Feeds Cultural: Guided Tours of the Pentagon, FBI buildings and more 6,751 Alumni Parents & Friends social leaders contact us events Follow Us D.C. Chapter Facebook Page D.C. Chapter Instagram Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Courtney Caliendo '09, MA'10 Lives in: Alexandria, VA Major: Double Major in Politcal Science & Communications Occupation: Law - Trademark Attorney at the USPTO Favorite BC Memory: I have so many favorite memories, but as a cheerleader I was fortunate enough to travel with the football team to away games. A memory that sticks out the most, has to be coming back to campus with the football team after Matt Ryan's 2007 last minute away game win (in the pouring rain) against VA-Tech! We were unexpectedly greeted by the students, the pep band and BC community in the early early early morning hours outside of Alumni Stadium! Pulling up on the buses and being greeted with the fight song and BC enthusiasm was indescribable. To see and feel all the BC love was unforgettable, especially after being outside in the cold and rain and after a long journey home. Why I got involved: I met my best friends, shared my best memories and even met my husband because of my ties to BC. I wanted to get involved in the local chapter to keep the BC spirit and community thriving in my local area. What are your local favorites in DC.: I tend to stay in the Northern Virginia area and our favorite thing to do is walk around Old Town, Alexandria down towards the waterfront and enjoy all the restaurants and art installations in the area! I also highly recommend visiting the DC monuments at night to see them all lit up - so beautiful! Fun Fact: In my spare time I participate in some of the Little Theater of Alexandria's musicals! Jeni Hansen '00 Lives in: Dupont Circle Major: History Occupation: Public Relations Favorite BC Memory: My favorite BC memory is being a Tour Guide for the Admission Office, and being a spokesperson for the University. I fondly remember summers spent on campus talking to prospective families about the BC experience, and helping to guide one of the most important decisions they could make together. Why I got involved: We all have roots and wings. Both of mine are here in Washington. After graduation, it was important to me to remain connected to the University in order to give back for the experience it gave to me. In the spirit of "men and women for others," it has been my pleasure to continue to give back to BC by connecting people, and helping them excel in life beyond Boston College. I co-chair the BC in DC group, sit on the Council for Women of Boston College, and the Board of Directors of the BC Alumni Association. What are your local favorites in DC: I love giving tours of Washington! My favorites photo opps are from the Washington National Cathedral and the White House. My favorite BC-sponsored tour is the annual "Wreaths Across America" tour of alumni headstones at Arlington National Cemetery. Fun Fact: I sit on the Board of DC's Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration. Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Maria D'Alessandro '11, CGSOM'18 Contact: knoerrm@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok