Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University Robert J. & Nancy D.Carney Institute for Brain Science Search Brown University Home Research Research Projects Where Brain Science Happens BRAINSTORM Program Centers & Core Facilities Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Center for Computational Brain Science COBRE Center for Neuromodulation Center for the Neurobiology of Cells and Circuits Center for Translational Neuroscience Center for Vision Research COBRE Center for Central Nervous System Function Research Projects Research Cores Behavior and Neuroimaging Core Design and Analysis Core MRI Research Facility Carney Human Testing Space The Bioluminescence Hub COVID-19 Resuming Research Plan Training Undergraduate Students Concentrations Graduate Study Postdocs Executive Committee Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs ICoN - Interdisciplinary Training Interdisciplinary Vision Training Program TPCP - Training Program People Institute Team Executive Committee Affiliated Faculty Community Spotlights Center Directors Scientific Advisory Board News & Events News Upcoming Events Past Events BrainExPo Seminar Series Carney Conversations Methods Meetups Resources Funding Opportunities Research Toolbox Brain Facts Education & Outreach Research & Educational Resources About Our Impact Affiliated Units Where Brain Science Happens FAQ Partner With Us Give To Carney Give To Carney Home Research Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs People News & Events Resources About Partner With Us Search Carney Institute for Brain Science Carney Summer Scholars The Carney Summer Scholars program offers world-class, hands-on training in computational brain science to undergraduate students who are enrolled at universities across the United States. We focus on computational approaches to understanding brain function because: 1) these are rapidly emerging essential skills for a successful scientific research career; and 2) computational brain science is a priority focus of the Carney Institute. We provide a nine-week intensive summer research experience in Carney-affiliated laboratories on a computational brain science project. Hallmarks of the program include near-peer mentoring and weekly sessions devoted to professional development, scientific skills, journal clubs and preparation for graduate school. “I was introduced to fields of science that I had never even heard of. That really opened my mind to thinking about all of the different possible routes that science could lead to. ” – Kyla Mayo, 2021 Carney Summer Scholar Students are recruited through The Leadership Alliance, which provides undergraduates with training and mentoring in the principles underlying the conduct of research and prepares them to pursue competitive applications to Ph.D. or M.D./Ph.D. programs. “It feels good to be surrounded by people who are passionate about learning and willing to help you out when you don’t understand something and support you along the way. ” – Selene Schiavone-Chamorro, 2021 Carney Summer Scholar How to apply Interested students should apply through The Leadership Alliance. Applications open annually on November 1 and close on February 1. Please select “Brown University” as your institution of choice, and “computational neuroscience” as your keywords of choice. For questions about The Leadership Alliance program, contact Samantha Andersen, coordinator of undergraduate programs. For questions about the Carney Summer Scholars program, contact Kristin Webster, Carney’s program coordinator. Learn more about Carney Summer Scholars Training Undergraduate Students Graduate Study Postdocs Carney Summer Scholars Training Programs Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Robert J. & Nancy D. Carney Institute for Brain Science Brown University Box 1901 164 Angell St., 4th Floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-7421 Email [email protected] Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top