Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs Student Affairs Information for Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni Search BC.edu Links Career Center Menu Main Nav Career Center Meet With a Career Coach Back Back Close About Overview Meet Our Team Student Employment Contact and Visit Us Meet with a Career Coach Learning Outcomes Career Clusters Overview Career Exploration Business, Consulting, and Finance Communication, Arts, and Media Education, Nonprofit, and Social Service Government, Law, and Public Policy Healthcare and Nursing Science, Technology, and Engineering Jobs and Internships Overview Be Career Ready Internships Jobs Resumes Cover Letters Online Presence Networking Interviewing Evaluating an Offer and Salary Negotiation Graduate School Overview Applying to Graduate School Law School For Current Graduate Students Events and Programs Overview Event Calendar Careerfest Endeavor Schedule of Events Endeavor Fellows Endeavor Keynote Endeavor FAQs Information for Alumni Envision Designing Your Career Course Alumni Job Shadow Program Career Fairs and Networking Events Campus Recruitment Eagle Intern Fellowship Career Closet Praxis Summer Program Winter Break Challenge Illumination Awards Outcomes Resources Overview Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Handshake Guide Eagle Exchange Guide Meet With a Career Coach Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC Career Center Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Employers Faculty and Staff Alumni BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Faculty and Staff Home Sites Faculty and Staff Be a Career Champion As BC faculty and staff, you are key partners in empowering students to pursue meaningful careers and lives. Our community's collective participation in career education is vital to ensuring all students have equitable access to career resources and opportunities. Because the academic experience is the one and only common experience among all BC students, your role in a student's career discernment and planning is a critical part of ensuring equity. Without your assistance in integrating career development into the classroom and advising, students from underrepresented or disadvantaged backgrounds may miss out on career opportunities, be less aware of their options, and feel less prepared to pursue their goals. We are here to support you in this work. Let's Work Together We invite you to partner with us to provide the best possible career resources to our students. Below are actions you can take to support students with their career journeys. Partner With Our Team Invite a member of our team to help organize a program for your students, develop a resource, or join a department meeting to share resources and information. Share Ideas and Feedback We want to hear your ideas and feedback, both positive and constructive. If you hear feedback from students, please share as well! Reach out to Joe Du Pont or Rachel Greenberg to discuss. Seek Our Consultation If you have an idea you want to pilot or you have a problem you seek to solve, we are available to serve as thought partners. Reach out to Joe Du Pont or Rachel Greenberg to discuss. Request a Classroom Presentation Our team is available to facilitate interactive workshops for your class or to provide a brief overview of our services and resources. We invite you to request a presentation. Share Employer Leads When you receive job/internship opportunities from employers/alumni, please forward them to our team. We can then connect with them about all the ways they can recruit BC students. Review First Destination Data Use our career outcome data to better understand the types of opportunities students majoring in your discipline pursue. Reach out to Joe Du Pont to discuss the data if you have questions. Contribute to Our Blog We have an active and well-read blog where we post content for students on a variety of career-related topics. Contact us if you have suggestions for a topic or an interest in guest blogging. Add Career to Your Course Syllabi Students are gaining the skills they need to succeed in their careers in the classroom. To help them make the connection, highlight the skills they will be learning in your class on the syllabus. Language to Include Following is language to add to your syllabus to help your students understand the concrete skills they will gain in your class: The Skills You Will Build in This Course The Boston College Career Center identifies eight core competencies that employers in all industries seek from college graduates. In this course, we will develop and advance our competencies in ## areas (include those that apply directly to your course): Critical Thinking/Problem Solving Oral and Written Communication Teamwork and Collaboration Digital Technology Leadership Professionalism and Work Ethic Career Management Global and Intercultural Fluency Boston College Career Center Southwell Hall | bc.edu/careers | 617-552-3430 Interested in learning how to connect the skills and/or content that you learn in this class to your professional goals? The BC Career Center provides career coaching and various career-related services to help you explore your interests, develop your skills, and achieve your goals, regardless of your interests. Depending on the content of your course, you may refer your students to one of our industry-specific career coaches. Our coaches can work with your students to connect what they’re learning in your course to relevant career paths. Link to the Career Center on Your Website To demonstrate to students the interconnectedness of our work and to help students easily find our resources, we encourage you link to the Career Center website on your department website. Quick Links Key Resources Letter of Recommendation Tips Faculty/Advisor Career Tools About the Career Center Key Resources Eagle Exchange Eagle Exchange is Boston College’s online platform to connect students, alumni, and the rest of the BC community for professional conversations, networking, and mentorship. We invite you to join the platform to connect with alumni and reconnect with your past students. Join Eagle Exchange Handshake Handshake is a student’s go-to tool for career-related activity at Boston College, from searching for jobs and internships, to accessing events, to scheduling appointments with career coaches. We invite you to explore the job/internship postings on Handshake and learn about employers who are hiring BC students. Request an Account Tips for Writing a Strong Letter of Recommentation One of the most common ways that faculty and staff can support students in their career journeys is by providing letters of recommendation for job, internship, fellowship, and graduate school applications. Reference relevant skills Discuss students’ specific skills as developed and applied in their work with you and how they may translate to the opportunity to which the student is applying. Provide specific details Be specific about students’ performance in your course. Was the course a demanding one? How well did the student perform relative to other students? Did the student do something that stands out in your mind? For example, did the student write a superior term paper or essay? If so, indicate the topic and why it was a superior work. Note the student's potential for intellectual development. Provide context Indicate how long and in what capacity you have known the student. If you are familiar with the student’s achievements outside the classroom, you may mention them, but remember, keep your comments specific to your direct work with the student. Do not simply rehash the student’s resume. Make it official If you are submitting a hard copy, print the letter on Boston College letterhead, and seal it in a letterhead envelope. It is advisable to sign your name across the seal. Keep it confidential Avoid any questions about confidentiality. Send the letter directly to the institution via mail, email, or an application service instead of giving it to the student to send on your behalf. Keep it ethical Under no circumstances should you have students draft their own letters of recommendation to which you will sign your name. Career Tools for Faculty and Advisors Use the interactive resources below to help your students or advisees identify their strengths and areas for growth and connect what they’re learning in the classroom to potential career opportunities. Skills Development Reflection Use this resource to help students reflect on the skills they built in a class that they have taken. Recommended time: at the end of a semester. Goal Setting Reflection Use this resource to help students set goals for building skills in their future coursework. Recommended time: at the beginning of a semester/during course registration. Additional Career Center Resources Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Designing Your Career Course Job/Internship Resources Graduate School Resources Career Center Event Calendar Get to Know the Career Center Learn about our mission, vision, and shared values that form the foundation of how we work at the Boston College Career Center. About Us Back To Top Back To Top Career Center Southwell Hall 38 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-3430 About Departments & Programs How can we help you? Events Division of Student Affairs Division of Student Affairs BAIC BC Bands Business Service Center Career Center Counseling Services Graduate Student Life Health Promotion Health Services Residential Life Robsham Theater Student Conduct Student Involvement Student Outreach & Support Women’s Center Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College