Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Office of Research Services Menu Search TTU Research Home Office of Research Services Proposal Submissions & Deadlines Instructions for Submitting Proposals for Extramural Funding to ORS Proposals for extramural support for research, training, or other activities to be conducted by Texas Tech faculty, staff and students are required to be submitted through the TTU Office of Research Services (ORS). Pre-Proposals For all Proposals Submitted through ORS A signed, completed Internal Routing sheet must accompany all proposals submitted to ORS. An approved submission must be received in ORS at least 5 business days prior to the sponsor deadline indicated on the Internal Routing sheet, for submission to the sponsor via the method indicated in the “Copy/Mailing Instructions” section of the Internal Routing Sheet. A proposal received by ORS after this date will be considered a “Late Submission” (see below). A complete submission will include the complete proposal (including all documents required by the sponsor; typically, a cover letter, abstract (or project summary), project narrative, budget, budget justification, biographical sketches of key personnel, current and pending support, facilities and equipment, etc.) and the Internal Routing sheet with all required information and approvals. In addition, a complete submission will include applicable supporting documents (e.g., letter of commitment, compliance certifications, etc.) Advance Notification to ORS Principal Investigators (PIs) are asked to notify their ORS Pre- award Analyst as early as possible of the intent to submit a proposal. This will aid in our efforts to provide continued services in accommodating expected increases in proposal volume. 2 weeks notice - Typical proposal 3-4 weeks notice - Proposal with Subcontracts or cost share Cayuse SP All proposals for sponsored projects funding must be routed for approvals via Cayuse SP, Texas Tech University's internal, electronic routing and approval system. This should be done prior to submission of the proposal to the sponsor and is the responsibility of the PI. Cayuse SP can be found at https://ttu.cayuse424.com/ Deadlines In order for ORS to complete a full and comprehensive review prior to submission, proposals are required to meet the following deadlines: 5 Days Prior to Sponsor Deadline: Budgets should be reviewed and finalized by ORS Cayuse SP routing should be complete and all certifications and authorizations should be present 3 Days Prior to Sponsor Deadline: All Proposals should be ready for a full and complete review and should include: All documents required for submission such as cover letter, abstract (or project summary), project narrative, budget, budget justification, biographical sketches of key personnel, current and pending support, facilities and equipment, letters of support, etc.) In addition, a complete submission will include applicable supporting documents (e.g., cost share documentation, subcontract documentation, compliance certifications, etc.) PROPOSALS SUBMITTED AFTER THE REQURED DEADLINE ARE NOT GUARANTEED TO RECEIVE A FULL REVIEW. Electronic Proposal Submission(s) Most proposals today are submitted electronically via various sponsor's online systems. ORS has institutional sign-ons to many different systems including: Grants.gov submissions are have been out on the TTU campus. Instead, all proposals that require Grants.gov submission will use the Cayuse 424 system, which uses the System-to-System (S2S) method.“Routing” approvals will be handled electronically via Cayuse SP. Most proposals to the National Science Foundation (NSF) will be submitted through FastLane at www.fastlane.nsf.gov. Most NASA proposals are submitted online through NSPIRES at http://nsprires.nasaprs.com. Other online systems include, but are not limited to: Cancer Prevention Research Institute of Texas – CPRIT Proposal Central Department of Energy – EERE American Heart Association For registration (NSF, NSPIRES, or NIH) and questions on electronic proposal submissions, please contact ORS at 742-3884 or by e-mail at ORS@ttu.edu. Submitting Proposals by Mail With the required 3-day notice, ORS will make the required number of copies (black and white only) and ship via Fedex two-day delivery to the sponsor at ORS expense. If color copies are required, the appropriate number should be provided to ORS. Late proposals (any proposal received less than three business days before the deadline), will be reviewed, as time allows, however the PI will be responsible for copying and shipping their own proposal. With time allowing, ORS will prepare overnight shipping labels, but will require a FOP to charge the expense. If there is not enough time for mail services to pick up the shipment, the PI will be responsible for the ensuring the shipment is received by the carrier for processing. Limited Submission Proposals Federal, State and private funding agencies may limit the number of proposals and/or applications submitted by an organization in response to a given funding opportunity. As needed, the Office of Research & Innovation (OR&I) will initiate an internal limited submission process in order to comply with this guidance. As with all proposals for sponsored projects, proposals for limited submission programs are not authorized to leave the university without review and approval of the ORS. Find Limited Submissions at /research/award-ops/limited-submissions.php. Late Submissions Proposals are reviewed in the order they are received. A proposal submitted to ORS after the applicable date (3-5 business days before the sponsor deadline) will be considered a late submission. ORS will make every effort to process late submissions, but there may not be time for an adequate review. If an award is made based on a late submission of a proposal signed by the college, school, department, and/or campus leadership, that unit will be responsible to cover costs incurred by TTU as a result of proposal errors. Such costs might include cost sharing commitments, or unallowable commitments of TTU resources. Office of Research Services Like Office of Research Services on FacebookLike Office of Research Services on Facebook Address Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.3884 Email ors@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityApr 5, 2022 2:46 PM Office of Research Services About Office of Research Services About Back Office Office of Research Services About Office Back Office Functions Roles & Responsibilities Staff Directory Organizational Chart Advocacy Strategic Plan Policies & Procedures Office of Research Services About Policies & Procedures Back ORS TTU Federal Federal Demonstration Partnership (FDP) Sponsored Project Lifecycle Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Back Finding Funding Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Finding Funding Back Funding Opportunities Research Development Team Limited Submissions Proposal Development Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Proposal Development Back Preliminary Proposals/White Papers Proposal Checklist Proposal Format Data Management Plans Budget Development Frequently Required Proposal Data Disclosure of Foreign Research Support and Collaborations Roles & Responsibilities Proposal Review & Submission Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Proposal Review & Submission Back Proposal Submissions & Deadlines Routing Proposals Internal Review & Approvals Signing Authority Roles & Responsibilities Award Process Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Award Process Back Award Definitions Award Negotiation & Acceptance Establishing an Institutional Budget Award File Maintenance Sub-recipient Agreements No-cost Extensions Federal Demonstration Partnership Roles & Responsibilities Award Management & Closeout Office of Research Services Sponsored Project Lifecycle Award Management & Closeout Back Regulatory Guidance Accounting Setup & Budget Modifications Allowable Expenses & Types of Costs Cost Transfers Service Centers Cost Sharing Effort Reporting Billing, Reporting & Accounts Receivable Project Closeout & Record Retention Audits & Institutional Reports Institutional Resources & Training Raider Research University Roles & Responsibilities Tools & Resources Office of Research Services Tools & Resources Back Cayuse Pre-Award/Post-Award Contacts by College Forms & Boilerplates Funding Institutional Research-Related Contacts OMB Uniform Guidance Learning Opportunities Reports Contact Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index