Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Sign Language and Speech-to-text Sign Language and Speech-to-text Disability Services coordinates sign-language interpreting and speech-to-text services for students and visitors who are Deaf or hard-of hearing to facilitate communication and participation in University programs and activities. You must first register with Disability Services to apply for eligibility for this accommodation. Who Can Use This Service? Students Staff determine the appropriate type of service according to students’ documented needs, communication skills, and preferred accommodation. Students eligible for sign-language interpreting or speech-to-text services for classes work with their accessibility coordinator to arrange this accommodation. For University Events All Columbia students, staff, faculty, or visitors can request sign-language interpreting and speech-to-text services for campus events. Requests for sign-language interpreting require notice of at least two weeks. Requests for speech-to-text services need a notice of at least three weeks. To coordinate such services for a campus event: Contact Disability Services a minimum of two weeks in advance for sign-language interpreting and a minimum of three weeks in advance for speech-to-text services. Your request must include the following information: Name of and contact information for person requesting services Date of event Start and end times of event Event location Name of event and other pertinent information, including type of event (lecture, performance, tour, book signing, names of speakers, etc.) Flyer (if available) A Columbia contact person or sponsoring department (if available) Preferred communication format to be used at the event Information on video if any will be shown If the event is canceled or communication services are no longer required, please update Disability Services at least 48 hours in advance of the event. Sign-language Interpreting Sign-language interpreting is available in the following styles: American Sign Language Signed English Cued speech Tactile signing Speech-to-text Services Speech-to-text services are available in the following formats: Communication access real-time captioning C-print Students with hearing disabilities will also likely require captioning services to access video with auditory components shown in class. Disability Services requires that videos be captioned if they are shown in a class with a student who is deaf or hard-of-hearing and receives sign-language or speech-to-text services. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Staff Directory Check out our list of staff at the office department page. Health Unit Disability Services Clinical Specialty Accessibility Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close