Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Campus Safety Menu Main Nav Campus Safety Contact Back Back Close About Overview FAQ BC Police Department Overview About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Community Relations & Crime Prevention Community Resource Officer (CRO) R.A.D. Programs Crime Prevention Education Compliments or Complaints Services Emergency Management Overview Potential Hazards Communication How to Prepare What to Do in an Emergency Students with Disabilities Environmental Health & Safety Overview Laboratory Safety Occupational Health & Safety Programs Indoor Environmental Quality Fire Safety Contact Documents Overview Crime Alerts Annual Campus Security & Fire Safety Report Business Continuity Emergency Plans and Publications Contact Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Meet Our Team Home BC Police Department About Meet Our Team About Meet Our Team In Memory FAQ News Accreditation Contact Chief of Police William B. Evans, Chief of Police Appointed Executive Director of Public Safety and Chief of Police in August of 2018, Chief Evans has overall responsiblity for mangning the delivery of police services and ensuring the safety of the Boston College campus community. 617-552-4445 Contact Chief Evans Bio Chief Evans joined the Boston College Police Department after serving the Boston Police Department for 38 years, rising through the ranks from Police Cadet to Police Commisioner. Chief Evans holds a Bachelor of Science in Government from Suffolk University and Master of Public Administration in Criminal Justice from Anna Maria College. He is a graduate of the FBI National Academy, FBI National Executive Institute, the Police Executive Research Forum’s Senior Management Institute for Police, and the Center for Homeland Defense and Security Naval Postgraduate School. Chief Evans has also completed the Senior Executives in State and Local Government as well as the General and Flag Officer Homeland Security Executive Seminar at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. Additionally, he has attended the National Preparedness Leadership Initiative and the Meta Leadership Executive Sessions, a collaboration of Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government and Harvard School of Public Health. Deputy Chief of Police Kevin Buckley, Deputy Chief of Police Appointed Deputy Chief of Police in 2019, Deputy Buckley serves as the second in command of the Boston College Police Department with direct responsibility and oversight of all Bureau Commanders. 617-552-2563 Contact Deputy Buckley Bureau of Administrative & Technical Services Peter Keating, Captain Oversees the daily operations of the Bureau of Administrative and Technical Services. This Bureau is responsible for the oversight of the BC Police Intregated Security Systems. 617-552-4266 Contact Capt. Keating Laurene Spiess, Lieutenant Oversees the Accreditation Management, Professional Standards, Training, Grant Writing and Recruitment for the Boston College Police Department. (617)-552-4413 Contact Lt. Spiess Bureau of Operations & Patrol Services Jeffrey S. Postell, Lieutenant Oversees the Bureau of Operations & Patrol Services 617-552-4467 Contact Lt. Postell Patrol Division The Boston College Police Department's Patrol Division consists of 41 uniformed police officers and are the most publicly visible representatives of our department. BC Police Officers perform a variety of functions aimed at building and sustaining a safe learning environment for the Boston College community. Police Officers patrol the campus by car, motorcycle, bicycle, and on foot. As the primary responsibility of this division, Boston College police officers are on patrol of the campus 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to prevent crime, preserve the peace, and to protect life and property by enforcing Massachusetts state laws, and the Boston College Rules and Regulations. The Uniformed Patrol Division is divided into three primary shifts; each shift is supervised by two Sergeants. Security Division The Boston College Police Department's Security Division consists of Gate Attendants, Museum and Library Security Officers, Campus Security Officers (CSO), Safety Escort Van Drivers and contract security officers. The responsibilities of the Security Division include a friendly presence at one of the seven entry gates to the campus, as well as the staffing of several posts such as residence halls, libraries and other buildings on campus. They are also responsible for the assistance of those wishing to park on campus, the deterrence of theft and damage to university and personal property, as well as the safety of students, faculty, staff and visitors to the campus. The security officers' contribution to the success of public safety efforts on the campus is without a doubt a very important link in maintaining the existence of a safe, orderly and tranquil environment that will assure all those affiliated with the university the opportunity of achieving their mission. Communications Division The Boston College Police Communications Division is the vital link between police and security officers, citizens, emergency medical services, fire department, public safety responders, and state/national law enforcement agencies. Often, police dispatchers are the first line of communications between the community and the responding personnel. Trained and qualified dispatchers provide information to police officers and the community that is essential to campus safety. Police Dispatcher's utilize an automated Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) system to track events, officers’ responses and status. This division also utilizes LEAPS (Law Enforcement Agencies Processing System), CJIS (Criminal Justice Information Systems) and the National Law Enforcement Telecommunication System (NLETS). CJIS and NLETS link together local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies for the purpose of information exchange. Police Dispatcher's assigned to this division are the primary point of contact for emergency and non-emergency requests for police services. Dispatchers are trained to determine the type of response that is needed. Emergencies: If you call from an “on-campus” land-line telephone, dial 2-4444. If you are calling from an “off-campus” or cell phone, dial 617-552-4444 or 9-1-1 and provide them with your exact location. Non-emergencies: (617) 552-4440 Bureau of Investigative Services David Flaherty, Lieutenant Oversees the Bureau of Investigative Services 617-552-4449 Contact Lt. Flaherty Investigations Division The Boston College Police Department's Bureau of Investigative Services is responsible for the follow-up investigation of most criminal offenses that are reported to BC Police. There are currently five Detectives assigned to the Investigations Bureau. Detectives must have several years of patrol experience and demonstrate investigative and problem solving skills before they are assigned to the position. Once assigned to the unit, a Detective will receive many additional hours of training that are unique and specialized for their field. These areas include: interview and interrogations, crime scene processing, latent fingerprint developing, advanced photography, search and seizure, sexual assault investigation, drug related crime investigation, computer forensic investigation, and many other courses. Detectives also work closely with local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies. BC Police depends on the assistance of these agencies to conduct investigations beyond the confines of the campus. These agencies also look to our department to provide needed equipment, knowledge, and resources that they may need to conduct their own investigations. Bureau of Business Services Karen Vandross, Business Manager Oversees the Bureau of Business Services, which consists of three civilian staff and numerous student interns which are responsible for budget, billing, and records management. 617-552-4446 Contact Mrs. Vandross Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Police Department Maloney Hall 617-552-4444 About BC Police Department Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health & Safety Documents To report a campus emergency: Call BC Police @ 617-552-4444 In case of fire call 911 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College