Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Alice! Health Promotion Directory Alice! Health Promotion Directory Sylviah Nyamu Sylvie Nyamu is a Program Specialist for Epidemiology Surveillance at Columbia University. In this capacity, she works collaboratively to design and implement surveillance techniques to monitor and control infectious disease transmission. She previously worked as a Contact Tracing Manager at Columbia University. In that role, she coordinated disease surveillance efforts through systematic implementation of outbreak control measures, including overseeing case investigations and tracing undertakings. She continues to support contact tracing efforts. Prior to joining Alice! Health Promotion, she managed clinical research initiatives in Infectious Diseases and Emergency Medicine. Sylvie's primary research interests include epidemiology and pathogenesis of zoonotic infectious diseases, the deployment of interventions for infection control, and the use of electronic laboratory reporting for disease surveillance and population health management. In her free time, Sylvie is an avid runner, explores hiking trails, practices yoga, and cherishes travelling with friends and family. She also enjoys getting lost in a good book. Raphael D. Florestal-Kevelier Dr. Raphael Florestal-Kevelier is the Executive Director for Alice! Health Promotion. He joined Columbia Health in 2017 and served as the Director of Alice! Health Promotion through early 2021. Previously he served as the Associate Director for Community Well-being within the Office of Health Promotion at Emory University. Prior to that position, Dr. Florestal-Kevelier served in several capacities in higher education functional areas including residence life, student conduct, and sorority and fraternity life. Originally from Georgia, he received both his bachelor’s degree in neuroscience and a MPH in behavioral science and health education at Emory University. He then earned his PhD in counseling and student personnel services at the University of Georgia. Dr. Florestal-Kevelier’s scholarship and practice pay attention to health equity in university contexts, mental health and emotional well-being among Black queer and transgender students, and building organizational capacity to prioritize a culture of well-being within which all communities can thrive. In addition to his work within Columbia Health, Dr. Florestal-Kevelier enjoys training future college health, higher education, and public health professionals, teaching courses about health equity and the U.S. healthcare system. Padma Ravichandran Entsuah Padma Entsuah is the Associate Director, Health Promotion at Alice! Health Promotion. She joined the team in June 2015 as a Health Promotion Specialist before transitioning to Senior Health Promotion Specialist. In these roles she supported a number of the peer-led initiatives such as the ROAR @ Columbia Facilitators, the Columbia Health Peer Ambassador Network, and the Keeping Our Community Healthy Ambassadors. She also helped create and facilitate the “Well-Being and the First Year Experience” Physical Education course. Currently, Padma oversees the Health Promotion strategy functional area within Alice!, working to create a campus culture centered around well-being. Originally from Maryland, Padma has lived throughout the East Coast. In her free time, she enjoys spending time with her family and friends, staying active, traveling, and exploring all the great food New York City has to offer. Nicole Weis Nicole joined the Alice! Health Promotion team in September 2020 as the Manager of Operations. In her role, she supports the operational, communication, and administrative needs of the Alice! team. This includes collaborating with her team to increase efficiencies, streamline processes, and build communication pathways both within Alice! and across units of Columbia Health. Prior to joining the team at Columbia, she was the Program Coordinator for the College of Arts & Sciences Career Development Office at Cornell University. There she focused on marketing, communications, operations, and supporting student career needs. At Cornell, she was also a facilitator for the Enhanced Assess Acknowledge Act program, a sexual assault resistance program for first-year college women. Her health promotion work has focused mainly on sexual violence prevention and hazing prevention. Originally from central Alabama, Nicole has made her way up the east coast—previously living in Charlottesville, VA and Ithaca, NY—now enjoys living the city life in Williamsburg, Brooklyn with her husband (her high school sweetheart!). In her free time, she enjoys yoga; creating art, especially photography and drawing; and exploring the sights, sounds, and tastes of the city. Kelly Gorman Kelly joined the Alice! Health Promotion team as a Health Promotion Specialist at the beginning of 2020. Kelly's professional background includes experience working in a number of different functional areas throughout student affairs, Title IX, and higher education. Kelly currently oversees health promotion initiatives related to flourishing, resilience, stress management and coping, sleep, nutrition, and time management. Her primary professional interests are related to promoting individual and community flourishing. A native of New York, Kelly is excited to return home with the opportunity to contribute to individual and systems level well-being initiatives that continue to expand the ways we conceptualize and operationalize health and well-being. In her free time, she is an avid golfer and dog-lover, and is continually looking to explore and take advantage of all that the area has to offer. Katherine L. McAvoy Katherine McAvoy is the Assistant Director for Public Health Initiatives for Alice! Health Promotion. They first joined the Alice! team in 2020, serving as Manager for Contact Tracing through September 2021. In that role, Katherine built and oversaw the University contact tracing program for the Morningside, Manhattanville, Lamont-Doherty, and Nevis campuses; they approached this work with a trauma-informed and intersectional framework, with the ultimate goal of supporting all members of the Columbia community throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. In their current role, Katherine's work focuses broadly on building multi-level systems and equity-driven public health infrastructure to tackle burgeoning public health issues, mitigate threats to health, and promote student well-being and flourishing. An Indiana native, Katherine is a long-time East Coast transplant and new-ish New Yorker. When not at work, they enjoy the Brooklyn food scene, adventures with friends and family, browsing bookstores, and petting other people's cats. Jaclyn M. Hawkins Jaclyn joined the Alice! Health Promotion team as a Health Promotion Specialist in 2018. Jaclyn’s professional background spans over several functional areas in higher education and student affairs. Some of those experiences focus on social justice education, mental health, residence life, and leadership development. In addition, Jaclyn has served as an instructor for both undergraduate and graduate populations. At Alice!, Jaclyn oversees initiatives for mental health and well-being, alcohol and other drugs (AOD), and wellness coaching. Jaclyn grew up in the Golden State, California, and is excited to support student health and well-being through a trauma-informed and intersectional lens. When not at work, Jaclyn enjoys spending time with her fur-child, Captain, and being out and about exploring all that the community has to offer! Gina Orlando Gina joined the Alice! Health Promotion team as a Health Promotion Specialist in 2017. Prior to joining Alice!, Gina worked with the digital health clinic Maven, designing and implementing outreach strategies for Maven Maternity. Additionally, her experiences as a teaching assistant and program facilitator provided her with experience working with students ranging in age from fourth grade to the graduate level. At Alice!, Gina oversees the day-to-day operations of the Go Ask Alice! website, Alice!’s social media presence and other priority projects. Gina is originally from northwest New Jersey. In her spare time, Gina can often be found reading, seeing musicals, spending time with friends, playing board games or wandering around bookstores. Daniel B. Chiarilli Daniel has been a part of Columbia Health since 2001, when he began volunteering as an Advocate at GHAP while he was a PhD student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Daniel oversees the GHAP Advocate program, which provides health education and support for students on sexual & reproductive health topics. In addition, Daniel counsels students in tobacco cessation, facilitates support groups, and is a member of the Trans and Gender Expansive Health Team. Outside of Columbia Health, Daniel is an adjunct assistant professor of music at Columbia and teaches in the Core Curriculum. Sort Health Unit Clinical Specialty Role Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close