Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Main Navigation Our Story Show Extended Division of Student Affairs Welcome Leadership Team Organizational Chart Our Purpose Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Assessment Programs Professional Development Staff of the Month Program Publications Faculty Resource Page Student Employment University Employment Contact Us California State University, Fullerton 2018-2023 Strategic Plan Branding Campus News Donate Facts & Figures College Access and Career Pathways Engagement and Well-Being Identity and Belonging Virtual Student Services Associated Students Inc., CSUF Titan Athletics Academic Appeals Title IX and Gender Equity Show Extended Notice of Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender or Sex Hispanic-Serving Institution Initiatives Our Purpose Our Purpose The purpose of the Division of Student Affairs is to transform the lives of our students academically, personally and professionally, equipping all with the knowledge and skills required for success at Cal State Fullerton and beyond degree completion. Thanks to our team of 400+ staff members, we are able to offer student-centered services and resources that provide rich learning opportunities for students, offering opportunities for community involvement, multicultural experiences, leadership training and career development. OUR VALUES Our work is rooted in our values. Everything we do is supported by these pillars: Student-Centeredness Integrity Diversity Collaboration Excellence Staff Development Our leadership team is committed to the professional/personal development of our students and administrators. Below are a few statements that reflect our view on talent development within the Division of Student Affairs: We seek to make opportunities available for professional development to help our team members take the next step in their respective careers. We expect our supervisors to provide effective leadership, support, encouragement and accountability to their teams. Through intentional coaching and mentorship, we provide honest and open feedback on an ongoing basis. We are committed to individual and group excellence. We are personally responsible and hold one other accountable. We strive to be a place that people want to be employed by, and a Division where contributions are valued and rewarded. This site is maintained by Division of Student Affairs. Last Published 4/12/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact danielramirez@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.