Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Speech, Language and Hearing Science Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Speech, Language and Hearing Science Major Apply Visit Request More Info Speech, Language and Hearing Science Major Accreditation Admissions Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Research Opportunities Scholarships & Financial Aid Bachelor of Arts in Speech, Language and Hearing Science The Bachelor of Arts in Speech, Language and Hearing Science at Temple’s College of Public Health is a degree program for students interested in becoming speech-language pathologists or audiologists. Graduates will have developed the skills to work with a variety of individuals to assess and treat speech, language and/or hearing challenges. These may include developmental delays and disorders such as autism, specific language impairment, developmental apraxia of speech, dyslexia and stuttering. They may also include acquired disorders such as age-related hearing loss and aphasia (a language disorder that can affect someone’s ability to produce and understand language). As a student in this degree program, you will learn the sciences of speech, language and hearing; the course of typical language development as well as delayed and disordered development; the types of acquired speech, language and hearing disorders; and methods for preventing, assessing and treating those disorders. When you graduate, you will be prepared to pursue advanced study in speech-language pathology or audiology, satisfying Standard IV-B (Basic Communication Processes) of the Knowledge and Skills Assessment required by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Alternatively, you will have developed a foundation for graduate work in special education, early childhood education, teaching of English as a second language and foreign language education, as well as various other health- and education-related professions. You will need a master’s degree in order to apply for certification as a speech-language pathologist; a professional doctorate is required to become an audiologist. What sets apart our BA in Speech, Language and Hearing Science? Renowned faculty: Temple’s Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders is recognized across the country for its top-tier education. Our faculty are experts in speech and language development and disorders and in their remediation, among other areas of research. Opportunities for research: You will have opportunities to participate in research and observe clinical services in the department’s Speech-Language-Hearing Center for the diagnosis and treatment of communication disorders. Optional certificates: Students can supplement their major with certificates in Linguistics and American Sign Language. Program Format In addition to the 39 required credits in the department, students take a foreign language or ASL; statistics; biology; chemistry or physics; and psychology courses. See a full list of program courses. Our Academic Advisors The College of Public Health offers extensive, personalized advising services to students in each department. Our advising staff will work with you to set goals and help you reach your academic potential. Meet our academic advisors. Related Graduate Degrees Speech, Language and Hearing Science MA Communication Sciences and Disorders PhD Related Undergraduate Programs American Sign Language Certificate Linguistics Certificate Communication Sciences and Disorders Minor Student Organizations You can engage with peers and find leadership opportunities in student-led clubs and organizations in the College of Public Health. Learn more about student clubs and organizations. Study Away Become an informed, active global citizen and enrich your education by studying away. Explore Temple’s study abroad opportunities, including information about specific programs and visas, as well as resources on cultural adaptation, diversity matters, and health and safety. Learn more about studying away. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $20,184.00 per year Out-of-state: $35,016.00 per year HP-SPLH-BA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Speech, Language and Hearing Science Major Accreditation Admissions Fieldwork & Internships Required Courses Research Opportunities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info