Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Apply Request More Info Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Undergraduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems Achieve a thorough introduction to information technology and spatial analysis with the Undergraduate Certificate in Geographic Information Systems in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This 12-credit certificate helps students gain a competitive edge in the job market through opportunities to work directly with mapping, statistical and visualization software, and to learn to manipulate data sets and spatially display those results. Geographic information systems (GIS) is powerful analytical software combining data with maps, allowing users to query, analyze and visualize spatial data. Over four courses, students pursuing the Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) will develop GIS skills applicable in a wide range of fields and in government, public and private sectors of the economy. Areas that make use of GIS skill sets include business, communications, design, engineering, government, health, planning, and social and natural sciences, among others. Skills gained in this program are increasingly in demand by employers in the geospatial technology industry. This certificate is open to undergraduate students in all majors at Temple University. Students majoring in Geography and Urban Studies or Environmental Studies may also complete the Certificate in GIS. Classes & Curriculum Certificates are awarded only at the time of completion of the bachelor's degree and cannot be awarded either as a stand-alone program of study or after completion of the first bachelor's degree. GIS electives give students the opportunity to tailor educational experiences to their career interests. Journalism: Web Mapping, Geovisualization Public health: GIS for Health Data Analysis, Urban GIS Sustainability: Environmental GIS, Environmental Remote Sensing Real estate: GIS and Location Analysis, Census Analysis with GIS Learn more about Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) courses. Related Graduate Degrees Geographic Information Systems PSM Geography and Urban Studies MA Geography and Urban Studies PhD Careers A Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) provides you the skills you need to take on advanced research positions in governmental agencies, nonprofit organizations and technology-based companies. A variety of industries seek to hire professionals with this skill set, including business, communications, criminal justice, design, education, engineering, environment, journalism, planning, public health, sociology and technology. Tuition & Fees The tuition for this Certificate Program is based on school or college of your major, program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. Our Academic Advisors Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development Dedicated advisors at the Joyce K. Salzberg Center for Professional Development in the College of Liberal Arts are available to guide students through their academic careers and with their career paths beyond Temple. They can help you choose a major, navigate your curriculum, identify internship opportunities, explore career opportunities and determine your post-graduation plans. Learn more about the center. Program Contact For more information about the Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate), contact the following staff member. Liz Janczewski is the coordinator and program contact for the Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate). Phone: 215-204-3386 Email: liz.janczewski@temple.edu The following staff members lead the Geographic Information Systems Department. Vicki Giammarco is the senior manager of administration. Phone: 215-204-7692 Email: vicki.giammarco@temple.edu Lee Hachadoorian is the director of the program. Phone: 215-204-3331 Email: lee.hachadoorian@temple.edu Melissa Gilbert is the department chair. Phone: 215-204-5482 Email: mgilbert@temple.edu Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-GIS-CERT Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Geographic Information Systems Certificate (Undergraduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info