Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Music Teaching Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Music Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Music Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Graduate Certificate in Music Teaching Learn to teach music in public or private pre-K through 12 school settings with the Graduate Certificate in Music Teaching in Temple University’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Designed for students who completed an undergraduate degree in music, the 25-credit Music Teaching Certificate program offers a pathway to engage in current pre-K through 12th grade music learning and teaching practices while forming the credentials required by the Pennsylvania Department of Education (PDE) to earn a Level I pre-K–12 Music Instructional Certificate. Spend one full semester student teaching and gain the experience to accommodate different learning styles; create safe learning spaces; engage learners in culturally responsive music activities, including connecting music and music learning to every day life, and improvising, creating and performing music; and guide students’ music learning and development and share outcomes of their progress. Up to nine hours from specific courses in the Music Teaching Graduate Certificate program can be applied towards the Master of Music in Music Education if the application is submitted within two semesters of certificate matriculation. Program Format & Curriculum The Music Teaching Graduate Certificate program can be completed in four semesters. Coursework for the program is held on Main Campus, with the exceptions of two courses offered online, and student teaching placements in elementary and secondary music settings. Courses include observations and extern teaching in schools off campus apart from course time. One semester of full-time music student teaching allows students to meet Pennsylvania Department of Education requirements, and to be eligible for Temple University’s recommendation to the PDE for Level I pre-K–12 music certification. Tracks At time of application, students choose the choral or instrumental track. Courses specific to the choral track include the following. Inclusive Vocal Development School Choral Ensembles Teaching Choral Music to Inclusive Populations Courses specific to the instrumental track include the following. Brass I Percussion Teaching Instrumental Music to Inclusive Populations General courses for either the choral track or instrumental track include the following. Foundations of Language Teaching: Meeting the Needs of English Language Learners Music Learning and Development Teaching Music to Students with Special Needs Requirements Admitted students must carry a 3.0 GPA or higher; file evidence annually of four clearances by required deadlines to engage in field, extern and student-teaching assignments; and file evidence of passing scores on the Fundamental Content Knowledge and Music Content Knowledge Praxis exams. Careers Graduates of this certificate program are prepared to teach music in both elementary and secondary school settings. You can also choose to further your education with a master’s or doctoral degree in a variety of music or teaching fields. Job options may include the following. Pre-K–12 general music teacher School or community music ensemble director Career Services Boyer College of Music and Dance provides small class sizes, intimate performance ensembles and a tight-knit academic community. Faculty members mentor students on an individual basis, helping them seek out internships and job opportunities. You may also connect with the university’s Career Center for support during your job or internship search. Drop in for a short visit or schedule a 30-minute coaching session to discuss components of your professional profile, including your résumé and LinkedIn presence. Learn more about Temple’s Career Center. Our Advisors Faculty advisors can help you navigate your program and discuss research opportunities, teaching assistantships and more. Learn more about Boyer’s music education faculty. Program Contact Contact the following faculty member with additional questions about the Music Teaching Certificate. Alison Reynolds is the chair of the Music Education and Music Therapy Department. Email: Alison.Reynolds@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8301 Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,095.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,458.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. BC-MUTC-GRAD Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Music Teaching Certificate (Graduate) Admissions Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info