Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Activities & Organizations Overview Campus Recreation Undergraduate Organizations Undergraduate Student Government Student Agencies Graduate Organizations Graduate Student Government Overview From dodgeball to chocolate making, there’s an opportunity for every student to find an activity that matches their interest and shapes their Princeton experience. Campus Recreation Photo by John Jameson, Office of Communications There are many options to participate in fitness and recreation at Princeton. In addition to intramural and club sports, student have access to a pool and dance studio at Dillon Gymnasium, and fitness equipment and classes at Stephens Fitness Center. Intramural Sports The intramural sports program is a great way to get active while meeting new people. Leagues range from basketball, broomball and ultimate frisbee to other fun activities in which residential colleges, eating clubs, independent groups, faculty and staff face off in friendly competition. Club Sports Students of all skill levels are invited to participate in any of our 37 Sports Clubs. Teams compete against other colleges throughout the Northeast and nationally. Undergraduate Organizations Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications There are more than 300 student-run organizations across campus that range from a cappella groups to Model Congress. While some groups are deeply rooted in traditions created over a century ago, the University encourages students to create new groups that fit their interests and hobbies. Learn More Undergraduate Student Government The Undergraduate Student Government (USG) provides an opportunity for undergraduates to be directly involved with student life on campus. USG represents the needs and serves the student body by working with Princeton administrators, organizing campus events and funding student groups and activities. Learn More Student Agencies Student entrepreneurs can expand their business pursuits and gain practical experience by joining the Princeton Student Agencies program. Some 14 agencies provide students an opportunity to earn income while also gaining valuable business skills. Learn More Graduate Organizations Photo by Olivia Martel There is no shortage of events and activities for graduate students to get involved in during their time at Princeton. Organizations span social, cultural and academic interests; there also are many undergraduate organizations that are open to graduate students. Learn More Graduate Student Government The Graduate Student Government advocates for the interests of graduate students at Princeton, provides a forum for matters affecting graduate students, and financially supports social events for graduate students. Learn More One Community Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice