Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links Vice Provost for Research Menu Main Nav Vice Provost for Research Vice Provost for Research Contact Back Back Close About Overview Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry BD FACSAria Cell Sorter Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Training News Contact Policies Related Links Research Policies at Boston College VPR Organization Chart (PDF) Internal Grant Opportunities Sponsored Programs Overview Coronavirus Updates BC Research Policies & Federal Regulations University Research and Projects Policy Funding Assistance Documentation & Forms Institutional Profile PeopleSoft Financials Technology Transfer Overview Invention Disclosure Guidance and Education Faculty and Staff Students Partners and Industry Documents Frequently Asked Questions Research Security, Integrity and Compliance Overview Research Security Research Integrity Research Misconduct Export Controls Research Protections Overview Policies & Procedures Forms & Templates Protocol Submission Authorization Agreements Training International Research Animal Welfare Contact Postdoctoral Affairs ResearchMatch Related Links ORP Standard Operating Procedures document Policy for the Protection of Human Research Participants IRB Committee Bylaws Human Subjects Payment Policy Gift Card Distribution Log Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search VPR website Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home About Research Facilities Materials Characterization Research Facilities Animal Care Facility Clean Room Electron Microscopy Flow Cytometry Imaging Facility Isotope Geochemistry Magnetic Resonance Mass Spectrometry Scientific Instrumentation & Machining Services Transmission Electron Microscope X-ray Crystallography Materials Characterization Materials Characterization The Materials Characterization Core will open in 2022. The lab will be located in Room B06 in the basement of 245 Beacon Street on the main campus of Boston College. A partial instrument list for the core may include: X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Powder X-Ray Diffraction (PXRD), and Atomic Force Microscope (AFM). Bruker D2 Phaser Powder X-ray Diffractometer (PXRD) Bruker D2 Phaser Powder X-ray Diffractometer (PXRD) Structure Analysis Phase Analysis Instruments & Functions This benchtop device is used for quantitative phase analysis and crystal structure identification of a crystalline material. Nano-structure and crystallite size can be determined through small-angle x-ray scattering (SAXS) analysis. Surface Science S-probe X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) Surface Science S-probe X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) aka electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA) Surface Analysis Instruments & Functions It is a technique for analyzing a material’s surface chemistry. XPS can measure elemental composition as well as the chemical and electronic state of the atoms within a material. This spectrometer contains a monochromatic aluminum X-ray source with variable spot sizes, a hemispherical analyzer, ion gun, flood gun, high definition camera, and a vacuum system equipped with two turbo pumps and a scroll pump. Park XE70 Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) Park XE70 Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) aka scanning force microscopy (SFM) Surface Analysis Instruments & Functions It commonly provides ultra high resolution topographical surface characterization. The image is obtained by the tip tapping on the surface of the sample. Therefore, it also available to study the electrical, magnetic, and mechanical properties of surfaces. Horiba Micro XploRA Raman Spectrometer Horiba Micro XploRA Raman Spectrometer Optical Analysis Structure Analysis Instruments & Functions It is a non-destructive fingerprint chemical analysis technique which provides detailed information about chemical structure, phase and polymorphism, intrinsic stress/strain, crystallinity and molecular interactions. The measurement is based upon the interaction of light with the chemical bonds within a material. Bruker Vertex 80v Fourier-Transform Infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) Bruker Vertex 80v Fourier-Transform Infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) Optical Analysis Absorption Analysis Structure Analysis Instruments & Functions IR spectroscopy is based in the fact that molecules absorb specific frequencies that are characteristic of their structure. These absorptions are related to the strength of the bond. Owing the improvements of Fourier-Transform, FTIR turns into instant selective tool for a fingerprint of the substance. Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 Chemisorption Analyzer Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 Chemisorption Analyzer Surface Analysis Absorption Analysis Instruments & Functions Chemisorption is used in development, monitoring and measuring of corrosion inhibitors and is used for measuring surface active sites on a substrate. During the process the adsorbing gas or vapor molecule splits into atoms, radicals, ions that form a chemical bond with the adsorption site. A mass spec will be attached for in-situ analysis. Typical Applications: Fuel Cell / Catalytic Reforming: Metal surface area Metal dispersion Average crystallite size Partial Oxidation: Temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) Heat of desorption of oxygen Heat of dissociation of oxygen Catalytic Cracking: Ammonia chemisorption TPD of ammonia TPD of alkyl amines TPD of aromatic amines Isomerization / Hydrocracking / Fischer-Tropsch Synthesis : Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) Pulse chemisorption TPD NETZSCH Differential Scanning Calorimeter (DSC) 214 Polyma NETZSCH Differential Scanning Calorimeter (DSC) 214 Polyma Thermal Analysis Phase Analysis Instruments & Functions It precisely measures heat capacity, phase transition and oxidative stability of polymers or liquid crystals, which allows us to understand amorphous and crystalline behavior, polymorph and eutectic transitions, curing and degree of cure, and many other material properties. This device can heat at up to 500 K/min and cool at 200 K/min over a wide measurement range. NETZSCH Simultaneous Thermal Analysis (STA) 449 F1 Jupiter / Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (QMS) 403 NETZSCH Simultaneous Thermal Analysis (STA) 449 F1 Jupiter / Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (QMS) 403 Thermal Analysis Phase Analysis Instruments & Functions STA refers to the simultaneous application of Thermogravimetry (TGA) and DSC to one and the same sample in a single instrument. The tungsten heating element allows for measurements under helium atmosphere from room temperature to 2000°C and high-vacuum measurements from 400°C to 2000°C. The QMS is coupled for evolved gas analysis. TA Instruments Discovery Dynamic Mechanical Analyzer (DMA) 850 TA Instruments Discovery Dynamic Mechanical Analyzer (DMA) 850 Thermal Analysis Mechanical Analysis Phase Analysis Instruments & Functions It is used to measure a material’s response (deformation) to a sinusoidal load under a given temperature and/or time. Common physical properties characterized are glass transition, elasticity and viscosity of solid samples. Jing Jin, Ph.D. Director Dr. Jing Jin is a materials scientist who is primarily focused on magnetic nano-materials systems (1D & 2D). She initially joined Boston College as the Assistant Director of Magnetic Resonance Center after completing her Ph.D. from the Institute of Materials Science at the University of Connecticut in May 2017 in particular to oversee EPR-related projects. Before that, Jing obtained her B.S. degree in Applied Physics as well as an M.Eng. degree in Material Physics and Chemistry from Tianjin University in China, and M.S. degree in Physics from Clark University in the US. She is currently working towards her M.B.A from the Carroll School of Management at BC, and has recently been appointed the director of the new BC Materials Characterization Core. Dr. Jin has intensive hands-on experience with many different characterization techniques, including EPR & NMR, as well as XPS, XRD, AFM, FTIR, Raman, surface absorption. She has led/collaborated on work characterizing the properties of many different systems encompassing organic and inorganic materials, polymers, and biomolecules. Materials Characterization Jing Jin, Ph.D. Director jing.jin@bc.edu 617-552-4766 Merkert 107 Back To Top Back To Top Vice Provost for Research Boston College, Waul House 270 Hammond Street Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 vproffice@bc.edu 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College