Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search Meadows School of the Arts About SMU Meadows School of the Arts: Facilities Facilities Facilities Owen Arts Center Meadows Museum Umphrey Lee Center Pollock Gallery Jake and Nancy Hamon Arts Library The Meadows School of the Arts is a tree-lined, urban oasis five miles from downtown Dallas, home of the nation’s largest arts district. Restaurants, shops and the light rail DART system are within easy walking distance for students and guests. Performing arts spaces, galleries, broadcast facilities, and a world-class museum are just a few of the resources at SMU Meadows. View a map of campus and learn more about parking at SMU. Owen Arts Center Public art and performance spaces within the Owen Arts Center include Caruth Auditorium, Bob Hope Theatre, Greer Garson Theatre, Margo Jones Theatre, O’Donnell Lecture-Recital Hall, Sharp Studio, Taubman Atrium and the Doolin Gallery. Students participate in lectures, film screenings, set construction and music lessons and take advantage of opportunities to form relationships and collaborations across many art forms. Learn more about the Owen Arts Center Meadows Museum The Meadows Museum at SMU houses one of the most comprehensive collections of Spanish art outside of Spain. With works dating from the 10th to the 21st centuries, the internationally renowned collection presents a broad spectrum of art covering a thousand years of Spanish heritage and includes masterpieces by some of the world’s greatest painters, including El Greco, Velázquez, Ribera, Murillo, Goya, Miró and Picasso. Learn more about the Meadows Museum Umphrey Lee Center The Umphrey Lee Center, located off the main quad on the west side of campus, is home to four award-winning Meadows School communications divisions: Communication Studies, Journalism, the Temerlin Advertising Institute, and Film and Media Arts. Learn more about the Umphrey Lee Center Pollock Gallery The Pollock Gallery plays a significant and valuable academic role in the University’s learning environment. A university art gallery is by its nature a logical extension of the studio classroom, and as such, it provides a place for the thoughtful and scholarly presentation and consideration of present and past artists and art forms. It is historically the proper vehicle for the study and examination of art, providing the Division of Art an arena for making the connections critical to the educational process. Learn more about Pollock Gallery. Jake and Nancy Hamon Arts Library The Hamon Arts Library at SMU supports the Meadows School of the Arts with a collection that holds more than 247,000 items relating to the visual and performing arts. Hamon is home to the Jerry Bywaters Special Collections and the G. William Jones Film and Video Collection. Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search