Menu Close Menu Skip to content Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters A to Z index Search for: Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Email People Departments Calendar Careers my.harvard Giving About Faculty & Research Admissions & Aid Academics Executive/Continuing Ed News Events Calendar > Events Calendar > Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 Harvard Chan C-CHANGE and Putney Pre College are hosting their annual Youth Summit on Climate, Equity, and Health this July in Boston, MA. This week-long summit will train high school students to be leaders in their communities through workshops, field-based activities, and meetings with scientists, health and policy experts, academics, energy innovators, and more. Students will engage with the program themes through the lens of their chosen Action Focus group: Climate Communications, Press, & Media; Climate Science; Entrepreneurship, Industry, & Technology; Environmental Justice; Global Health, Epidemiology, & Infectious Disease; Medicine & Healthcare; and Policy & Advocacy; and develop a Climate Action Plan to transform their ideas into action. The Youth Summit combines Putney’s extensive history in designing educational and innovative student programs with Harvard Chan C-CHANGE’s work to center health and equity within climate action. Full and partial scholarships are available and specifically designed to provide equitable access for students representing diverse voices, backgrounds, and perspectives. Learn more! + Add to Google Calendar+ Add to iCalendar Details Start: July 24 End: July 30 Calendar(s): Public Events Event type(s): Conferences and Symposia Website: https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/c-change/events/harvard-c-change-youth-climate-summit/ Venue Longwood Campus Related Events Exec. Ed Online: Leading in Health Systems Activating Transformational Change June 6 @ 8:45 am - 12:00 pm Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Featured Events Dismantling disinformation June 6 @ 12:00 pm - 1:00 pm The 23rd Annual Harvard Nutrition Obesity Symposium – The Neurobiology of Eating Behavior in Obesity: Mechanisms and Novel Therapeutics June 8 @ 8:30 am - 4:30 pm Harvard Chan C-CHANGE Youth Summit on Climate Change and Public Health July 24 - July 30 More events Other calendars Office of Faculty Affairs Department of Biostatistics Department of Environmental Health Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences Department of Molecular Metabolism Submit an event Have an event you would like to appear on this calendar? How to submit an event We want to hear from you The Department of Information Technology and the Office of Communications look forward to hearing your feedback on how we can improve the calendar experience for both visitors to our site and administrators who plan events. Provide feedback About the Events Calendar (beta) project Harvard Chan School on Twitter In the wake of a May 24 mass shooting at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school that left 19 students and two teachers… https://t.co/x8GHo0fMZS RT @dengdiit: This week,I had the honor and responsibility of receiving a master’s degree in public health with concentration in health pol… RT @Harvard: “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic. Let it be defined by public service,” said Attorney General Merrick Gar… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Looking for ways to take action on #climate? The Climate Health Organizing Fellowship trains health professionals to u… RT @HarvardCCHANGE: Creativity is turning coal mines, landfills, and toxic waters into opportunities for #CleanEnergy. Your lights yearn to… RT @HarvardCenterHH: What is the relationship between #technology and #happiness? This @Forbes article offers potential considerations, wit… Information For: Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Friends & Supporters About Key Facts Renaming the School Office of the Dean Location and Facilities Administrative Offices Contact Us Faculty and Research Faculty and Researcher Directory Academic Departments, Divisions and Centers International Research Postdoctoral Research Fellows Office of Faculty Affairs Faculty Searches Office of Diversity and Inclusion Admissions & Aid Why Harvard Chan Degree Programs Non-Degree Programs Financial Aid Student Experience Career Advancement Apply Academics Academic Departments Divisions Research Centers Flagship Initiatives International Research Research Administration and Support Degree Programs Fellowships and Residencies Summer Programs Continuing Professional Education Interdisciplinary Concentrations Academic Calendar Harvard Chan Viewbook Executive/Continuing Ed Program Offerings Custom Programs Request Information News and Resources About ECPE Contact News Featured News Press Releases Student Stories In the News Newsletters HPH Magazine Why Public Health? Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health 677 Huntington Avenue Boston, MA 02115 +1 (617) 495‑1000 Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram iTunes Harvard Chan Home Contact Us Harvard University Home Make a Gift Privacy Policy Report Copyright Violation Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College