By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics Syracuse Abroad FAQs More from this Section Semester Programs Why Syracuse Abroad? Contact Us or Request More Information Program Selector Tool Affording Study Abroad Information for Accepted Students Requirements and Deadlines Short-Term Programs: Summer and Academic Breaks Syracuse Abroad FAQs Let us address some common misconceptions about study abroad and answer your questions. Can I afford to study abroad? Will I be able to graduate on time? Will I miss out on fun things happening on campus while I'm abroad? What courses can I take abroad? When do I apply? How do I apply? Is there an application fee? Will credits count toward my major/degree? Does Syracuse Abroad offer programs for graduate credit? Is there a language requirement to study abroad? Is there a GPA requirement? Does Syracuse Abroad give scholarships and grants? Does my tuition cover studying abroad? What is the difference between a Syracuse Abroad center and a World Partner Affiliated Program? What do I do once I’m accepted to a Syracuse Abroad program? Can I afford to study abroad? Link In some cases, the cost of studying abroad will be the same as staying on campus, and sometimes it's less. We are committed to making the Syracuse Abroad experience possible for all students. Your financial aid package may apply to Syracuse Abroad, and there are a host of other assistance options, including named scholarships, grants and awards. Find helpful cost and aid information to learn more about the fees and expenses related to your selected program. Will I be able to graduate on time? Link The courses you take abroad fulfill curriculum requirements across a variety of academic disciplines. Working with your academic advisor, you can select the right program and courses to allow you to graduate on time. Start by finding the program option that best fits your chosen criteria. Will I miss out on fun things happening on campus while I'm abroad? Link Your time away from campus doesn't mean missing out on collegiate life: it's a chance to plunge into the best of what college has to offer. Studying abroad is an opportunity to engage in a rich and fulfilling student life while also seeing new parts of the world, making connections and friendships that could have a lifelong impact, and gaining the skills to thrive in a global context. Syracuse Abroad programs provide opportunities to participate in sports, art and community engagement. Check out our Instagram to get a glimpse of some of the adventures students are having abroad! What courses can I take abroad? Link Courses abroad fulfill curriculum requirements across a wide range of academic disciplines. It is important to consult with your advisor early in your planning to choose a program that allows you to fulfill course requirements. When do I apply? Link Deadlines for most Syracuse Abroad programs are: Oct. 1 for spring semester programs Oct. 15 for spring short-term programs Feb. 10 for summer programs Mar. 15 for fall semester and short-term programs Most Syracuse Abroad programs have a rolling admissions policy, which means applications are reviewed as they are completed, prior to all deadlines. To ensure full consideration, all students are strongly encouraged to apply as soon as possible, as some programs have limited space. Some programs have deadlines that occur earlier than the standard deadline for the term. For exact deadline dates, please refer to the program’s specific application page. Date of application does not guarantee acceptance. All applicants should be familiar with the Syracuse Abroad admissions policy. How do I apply? Link Begin the application process using our program selector tool. Once you have selected a program and semester, you can apply through specific program links below the search tool. The application requires an answer to a brief reflective question and biographical information. If you wish to take courses at a nonaffiliated program, follow the petition process. Is there an application fee? Link Yes, there is a $70 application fee. Be prepared to pay the fee once you start your application. Contact us if you have any questions about the application fee. Will credits count toward my major/degree? Link All Syracuse Abroad students receive Syracuse University credit for courses taken abroad, even when taken at host/partner universities. For Syracuse University students, this credit may be applied toward major or elective requirements. Students from other universities receive credits either as home-university credit or as transfer credit, and should confirm their home school's academic policy. Does Syracuse Abroad offer programs for graduate credit? Link Yes. Many summer programs have courses and internships for graduate credit. Students who participate in these programs are typically enrolled in graduate degree programs. Syracuse Abroad law programs are only open to students already matriculated in law school. There are also graduate semester programs. Florence offers a Renaissance art history master's program. Public Policy master's programs are available in Santiago and offered at specific World Partner Affiliated Program locations. Is there a language requirement to study abroad? Link There is no language requirement for admission to most of Syracuse Abroad’s center programs (the exception is Santiago, where three semesters of Spanish language or the equivalent are required). Once admitted, however, most students enroll in language courses and/or courses taught in the host language. Courses not taught in English at local universities do have language requirements. Is there a GPA requirement? Link Syracuse Abroad Centers Syracuse Abroad centers, extensions of the Syracuse University campus, are widely recognized for their focus on student success, the quality of their academic and cultural programming, and their innovative experiential learning opportunities. A 2.5 GPA (on a 4.0 scale) is required for admission to most Syracuse Abroad centers. For some limited-enrollment programs (such as drama or design in London), the minimum GPA may be higher than 2.5, and priority enrollment may be given to those with a GPA of at least 2.75. Local Universities Some center programs require or offer the option of enrolling at a local partner university. A 3.0 minimum GPA is required for enrollment in programs with a local university course component. World Partner Affiliated Programs For most World Partner Affiliated Programs, the required GPA is 3.0, based on the program’s published GPA requirements and/or Syracuse Abroad’s evaluation of the program’s academic expectations. There are some World Partner programs whose GPA requirement ranges from 2.5 to 3.3. Please refer to each program’s page for its exact requirements. Note: Syracuse Abroad reserves the right to adjust the requirements for World Partner programs as it deems appropriate. Does Syracuse Abroad give scholarships and grants? Link For Syracuse University students, Syracuse Abroad works with the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. There are need-based grants and named scholarships available for Syracuse students. Visiting students should check with their home study abroad offices for institutional grants that apply. All students should visit the Grants and Aid section of our website for more information. Does my tuition cover studying abroad? Link Students studying abroad for a semester pay the standard Syracuse University semester tuition plus a program fee. Program fees vary by program and residential selection. There is an additional cost for a student visa (ranging from $80 to $500, depending on location), and individual course fees may be applicable. Students studying abroad for an academic break or summer program pay Syracuse University tuition plus an additional program fee. The program fee may cover the cost of round-trip transportation, accommodations, group meals, ground transportation, and other activities and services for which a separate fee is not charged. Meals, personal transportation, and activities not related to the program are the responsibility of the student. Fees vary by program and are listed on the individual program pages. What is the difference between a Syracuse Abroad center and a World Partner Affiliated Program? Link Syracuse University operates centers in Florence, Italy; London, England; Madrid, Spain; Santiago, Chile; and Strasbourg, France, as well as a featured program in Central Europe based in Wroclaw, Poland. Each Syracuse center is managed by a center director or academic director, along with multicultural staff, delivering unparalleled support services to students studying abroad. Staff abroad and on campus are dedicated to empowering students to reach their full potential abroad, both academically and personally. Syracuse Abroad’s 60-plus World Partner Affiliated Programs offer a range of models for Syracuse University students—from enrolling in small programs sponsored by other U.S. universities (in Costa Rica, Germany, South Africa and India, among others) to enrolling in foreign universities where most of your classes are with international students (Israel, Japan and Korea) to directly enrolling in university courses alongside local students (Australia and Ireland). Individual programs have specific requirements, but in every case it is the student’s responsibility to identify appropriate courses and get approvals for Syracuse University credit from academic advisors. World Partner programs are only for Syracuse University students. What do I do once I’m accepted to a Syracuse Abroad program? Link The Accepted Students section of our site will walk you through the process. The most important steps you can take right away: start applying for your visa (should you need one), and begin completing your post-acceptance forms. Obtain or renew your passport. Your passport will need to be valid for at least six months beyond the date of your program. Connect with Syracuse Abroad through general advising sessions or program appointments. Drop-in or schedule a virtual or in-person advising session at SyracuseAbroad@Bird Monday-Friday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Or, schedule an appointment to meet with a Syracuse Abroad program advisor. View all advising options View all advising options. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy