skip to main content University of Nevada, Reno Homepage Apply Visit News Give Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Search Search www.unr.edu Search www.unr.edu Quicklinks Expand or Collapse to view popular links for this site Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login Menu Expand or Collapse to view links grouped by top level headings Quicklinks Alumni Faculty & Staff Parents Students Academic Calendar Campus Catalog Directory Email Access Library Maps MyNevada WebCampus Workday Zoom Login First-year student from Nevada First-year student from another state Transfer student from Nevada Transfer student from another state International student Graduate student Apply Visit News Give Costs & Aid Admissions at the University of Nevada, Reno First-year student from Nevada First-year student from another state Transfer student from Nevada Transfer student from another state International student Graduate student What does it cost to attend the University? Get more information about your estimated costs for tuition, fees, housing, meals, books and supplies, and learn about financial aid options, scholarships, tuition free programs and more. First-year student from Nevada First-year student from another state Transfer student from Nevada Transfer student from another state International student Graduate student Learn more about your estimated costs Determine your student type below to get additional insights into the costs of attending the University of Nevada, Reno. New freshman from Nevada New freshman from Nevada New freshman from another state Out-of-state new freshman Transfer student from Nevada College transfer students from Nevada Transfer student from another state Out-of-state transfer student International student Are you an international student considering a bachelor's degree program at the University of Nevada, Reno? International student Graduate School student Are you a student considering a post-baccalaureate degree, such as a master's or Ph.D.? The Graduate School at the University of Nevada, Reno has complete information about tuition and fees for both students from the United States and from other countries. Graduate student tuition and fees Take the guesswork out of tuition and fees Current tuition and fees Want to know more about tuition and fees? Review our informational tables to get a better understanding of the tuition and fees for a full academic year at the University of Nevada, Reno. See tuition and fee tables Four years of tuition rates You shouldn't have to guess about how much an education at the University of Nevada, Reno costs. Tuition and fees are set by the Nevada System of Higher Education (NSHE) Board of Regents and are available through the 2022-2023 school year. Review tuition rate tables From the admissions blog Our admissions and financial aid staff have helpful tips and advice on Opportunity U: The Nevada Admissions Blog. How to compare financial aid letters April is here and you probably have started receiving financial aid offer letters from different universities. But what does it all mean? Today, we’re going to break it down for you. Top 5 grants and scholarships for Nevada residents Admissions coordinator Julio Leyva shares his tips on finding grants and scholarships for Nevada residents to help you afford college. Find out the top 5 sources of scholarships for Nevada students. Why WUE at Nevada? Lots of schools offer WUE, but every school does it a little differently. Read on to learn how WUE at Nevada can save you $50,000 and offers advantages over other schools. Read more from Opportunity U: The Nevada Admissions Blog Need help figuring out your costs? Complete a contact form and an admissions representative can answer any questions you may have. Connect with us Follow the University University Twitter University Facebook University YouTube University Vimeo University Flickr University Instagram University LinkedIn University of Nevada, Reno 1664 N. Virginia Street, Reno, NV 89557 (775) 784-1110 Employment & Careers Non-Discrimination Statement Privacy Website Help Commitment to Diversity Commitment to Accessibility Contact the University Equal Opportunity and Title IX