Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Department of Chemistry Home About Research Academics People News Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Site Navigation Home About Facilities & Services NMR Facility Mass Spectrometry Facility Machine Shop Electronics Shop Stockroom Room Reservations Connect your Computer Outreach & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Action Committee Outreach Activities Chemistry Anonymous Climate Form Visitor & Contact Information Travel Policies for Guests Brown Chemistry Department Employment Opportunities & Internship Postings Geo-Chem MacMillan Safety Resources Research Chemical Biology Inorganic Chemistry Nano and Materials Chemistry Organic Chemistry Physical & Theoretical Chemistry Chemical Education Publications Academics Undergraduate Research Opportunities Chemistry Placement & Introductory Courses CHEM - Web Tutorial Transfer Credit Honors & Awards ChemDUG REUs & Funding Graduate Financial Support and Funding Opportunities Awards Graduate Leadership Courses Resources People Faculty Staff Department Directory News Archive Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Endowed Lectures Each academic year, the department holds two endowed lectures: the John Howard Appleton Lecture and the Leallyn Burr Clapp Lecture. Each lecture features a dinner to which faculty, senior graduate students, and senior undergraduate concentrators are invited. Appleton and Clapp lecturers are highly regarded and represent a span of chemical fields. Past lecturers have won Nobel prizes, developed novel theories and methods in the sciences, and designed new instrumentation. JOHN HOWARD APPLETON LECTURE This endowed lecture was established in 1922 and named in honor of Professor John Appleton. The Appleton lecturer presents one seminar appropriate to the general public and a second seminar appropriate for a scientific audience. This year, on the 100th Anniversary of the Appleton Lecture endowment, Daniel M. Neumark, Melvin Calvin Distinguished Professor of Chemistry, University of California, Berkeley will present "Chemistry Under the Arrow". John Howard Appleton (1844-1930), or 'Johnny App' as he was affectionately known, was associated with Brown and the Chemistry Department in a variety of capacities for many years. He received his Ph.D. from Brown in 1863 as well as honorary A.M. in 1869 and honorary Sc.D. 1900. He held appointments as Instructor (1863-68), Professor of Chemistry Applied to the Arts (1868-72), and as the inaugural Newport Rogers Professor from 1872 until his retirement in 1914. An excellent scholar and teacher, he authored 12 books on various aspects of chemistry. The Appleton lectureship was endowed to the Brown University Chemistry Department in 1922 by the friends and family of Professor Appleton. LEALLYN BURR CLAPP LECTURE This endowed lecture was established in 1990 in memory of Professor Leallyn Clapp. The program consists of an annual lecture or workshop on issues of current scientific or educational interest. The 2021 Clapp Lecturer is Professor Joseph S. Francisco. The Clapp Lecture abstract and brief biography of our guest speaker can be found here. Leallyn Burr Clapp (1913-1988) was a professor of chemistry at Brown University from 1941 until his retirement in 1982, although he continued to teach during his emeritus years. A native of Illinois, he obtained his undergraduate education at Eastern Illinois State Teachers College followed by graduate degrees at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign (MA 1939; Ph.D. 1941) while carrying out research with John C. Bailar. Lee Clapp's first love was chemical education, and this is reflected in the many awards and honors he received over the years, including the Manufacturing Chemists Award in Chemical Education (1973), and the American Chemical Society Award in Chemical Education (1974). He pioneered educational reforms in the teaching of chemistry at both the high school and college levels, and was extremely active in promoting these reforms in his capacities as Chairman of the ACS Division of Chemical Education, Director of the Chemical Bond Approach Project for the teaching of chemistry, and President of the New England Association of Chemistry Teachers. In 1990, the Clapp Lecture/Symposium series was initiated in his honor. Seminars & Events Endowed Lectures DIAC-Hosted Events Alumni Speaker Series Department of Chemistry Department of Chemistry Brown University Box H 324 Brook Street Thayer Street at MacMillan Lawn Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2321 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top