Skip to main content Google Tag Manager Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide powered by Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Swearer Center. Brown University. Search form Search Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer about programs People Stories Students Faculty Community Partners Friends & Alumni Sign up for our Newsletter Programs Swearer Center programs and fellowships provide students with community engaged, cohort-based experiential learning opportunities. Through programs and fellowships, students link their passion for social justice and community engagement with their academic and career goals. Many Swearer Center programs include financial support. Eligible students also can access support through Off-Campus Federal Work Study. Through BrownEngage, students can explore active program and fellowship communities and apply for community engagement opportunities. Explore the program cards below to see the variety of programs. Use the filter to sort by program attributes. New to the Swearer Center and not sure where to begin? Explore Community Corps, a Swearer Center program that facilitates opportunities for students to engage directly with local organizations. Interested in getting involved? Peer Advisors are available to help you navigate opportunities at the Swearer Center. If you are a community organization interested in hosting students, visit our Community Partners page. For more information, Brown University has established a centralized website for COVID-19 updates at covid.brown.edu. Past Programs & Initiatives For Community Partners All Program TypesBeyond ProvidenceSummerProvidenceWinterUndergraduatePost-GraduateFunding Available The Arthur Liman Public Interest Fellowship at Brown University offers undergraduate students an opportunity to participate in public interest law projects for a summer. Arthur Liman Public Interest Fellowship The Bonner Community Fellowship is a cohort experience in which undergraduate students pair with a community organization for four years and participate in weekly leadership workshops. Bonner Community Fellowship The Brown in Washington Fellowship is a semester-long intensive internship program in Washington, D.C. Brown in Washington The Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program is a paid opportunity for undergraduate students to spend a summer in Washington, D.C., where they intern with a public agency or think tank. Brown in Washington Summer Signature Program The Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship is a full-time, post-graduate service and fellowship opportunity. Brown University AmeriCorps VISTA Fellowship Join 500 of your peers collaborating with organizations to mentor, tutor, coach, and advocate for long-lasting, sustainable change in education, health, and economic justice in the Providence community. Community Corps & Off-Campus Federal Work-Study The Community-Based Learning and Research (CBLR) Fellowship offers undergraduate students the opportunity to work with faculty members to support CBLR-designated courses at Brown. Community-Based Learning and Research (CBLR) Fellowship The Edward Guiliano ’72 Global Fellowship provides students with the opportunity to broaden their perspectives and interact with the larger world through academic, creative and cultural experiences outside their current community and comfort zones. Edward Guiliano '72 Global Fellowship The Engaged Scholars Program (ESP) enables students who are passionate about communities and the challenges they face to design courses of study and action as part of their concentration requirements. Engaged Scholars Program The Engaged Scholarship Certificate (ESC) allows undergraduate students to investigate public, civic, and/or social justice issues that they are passionate about through the integration of academic study with community-based learning, research, and action. Engaged Scholarship Certificate The iProv Summer Fellowship provides 30 undergraduate students with a stipend to work full-time in 8-10 week internships with nonprofit organizations based in the greater Providence area. iProv Summer Fellowship The Royce Fellowship supports Brown undergraduates as they carry out independent engaged research projects of their own design in locations across the United States and around the world. Royce Fellowship The Social Innovation Fellowship gives students a platform to engage with communities to explore and develop innovations that address pressing problems in our society. Social Innovation Fellowship Contact Swearer Center Brown University 2 Stimson Avenue Box 1974 Providence, R.I. 02912 +1 401 863 2338 s[email protected] Quicklinks Home About Programs Voting at Brown Events at Swearer BrownEngage Connect Swearer http://www.facebook.com/SwearerCenter https://twitter.com/swearercenter https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDdrA9Z9vbwIOAjCHxjvp7Q https://www.instagram.com/swearercenter/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/swearercenter Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2016 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat