Home Holm Center Skip to main content (Press Enter). U.S. Air Force Logo About AU Air University Vision and Mission Air University Commander Command & Leadership Air University Foundation News Air University News Around the Campus Videos MAJCOM News Live Webcasts Academics Academic Affairs Registrar Doctrine Development and Education Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education Enlisted Education Thomas N. Barnes Center for Enlisted Education --Community College of the Air Force --Airman Leadership School --NCO Academy --Air Force Senior Non-Commissioned Officer Academy --USAF Chief Master Sergeant Leadership Course --Air Force Enlisted Heritage Research Institute --Enlisted PME Instructor Course Officer Education Squadron Officer School Air Command and Staff College Air War College Global College of PME International Officer School School of Advanced Air and Space Studies Air Force Fellows Officer Accessions and Citizen Development Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions & Citizen Development --Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps --Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp --Officer Training School Leadership & Professional Development Ira C. Eaker Center for Leadership Development --Air Force Chaplain Corps College --Air Force First Sergeant Academy --Civilian Leadership Development School --Commanders School --Defense Financial Management & Comptroller School --Force Support Professional Development School --The Profession of Arms Center of Excellence (PACE) Academic Centers Air Force Culture and Language Center Air Force Cyber College Air Force Negotiation Center USAF Center for Strategic Deterrence Studies USAF Center for Strategic Leadership Communication USAF Center for Strategy and Technology Academic Services Air Force Institute of Technology Publications Air University Press Æther - Æther Journal of Strategic Airpower & Spacepower - Air & Space Operations Review Journal of Indo-Pacific Affairs (JIPA) Journal of the Americas Revista Profesional de la Fuerza Aérea de EUA, Continente Americano Revista Profissional da Força Aérea dos EUA, Continente Americano Journal of Military Conflict Transformation (JMCT) Wild Blue Yonder Digital Journal Research Air University Library AU Research Topics Air Force Historical Research Agency Research Search Engines China Aerospace Studies Institute Deterrence Research Knowledge Center Office of Sponsored Programs - ISR Research Task Force - Russia Research Task Force Human Research Protection Program Resources Air University Educational Support Services Air University Distance Learning Air University Portal (CaC Required) Air University Canvas Login Getting Started Using Your CAC Air Force Distance Learning Air Force Libraries (CAC Required) Air Force myLearning (CAC Required) Digital University Air Force Virtual Education Center (AFVEC) Culture and Language Course Electronic WAPS Online Reference Library Database (eWORLD)(.mil Only) Air University Innovation Accelerator A+ Toolkit: Enhancing K-12 Education Teaching and Learning Center Flight Commander's Edge Squadron-Centered Learning Chaplain's Thought of the Week Chief of Staff of the Air Force Leadership Library Heroes Welcome Alabama Health Care Services Lodging, Family, Food, Sports & Fitness Contact Us Air University (AU) About Newsroom Contact Us Holm Center Officer Training School Reserve Officer Training CorpsJunior Reserve Officer Training CorpsInspector General Jeanne M. Holm Center Jeanne M. Holm Center We Build Leaders Air Force Officer Training School Air Force Officer Training School Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps The Air Force is seeking talented and motivated high school and college students with solid character and demonstrated leadership potential. Air Force Junior ROTC Air Force Junior ROTC Greetings from the Commander Brigadier General Leslie A. Maher Commander, Holm Center Biography Welcome to Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development. Our mission is straight-forward: “We build leaders.” The Holm Center vision of the future to sustain “a diverse culture of leadership development focused on Continuous Learning, Enthusiasm, Pride, Compliance and Tradition” is what motivates us every day. Holm Center provides coordinated leadership and policy direction for the Air Force's officer recruiting, training, and commissioning programs at Officer Training School and at Air Force ROTC detachments at 145 universities. About 80 percent of the new officers who enter the Air Force each year come through one of our two programs. Our staff also manages, supports and develops curriculum to train tomorrow's Air Force officers. Holm Center also directs the Air Force's high school citizenship training program - Air Force Junior ROTC. We oversee 866 Air Force Junior ROTC units on high school campuses around the world. The aim of that program is to build better citizens for America. We do that today for over 105,500 cadets. Air Force JROTC Introduction and Information Briefing For More Info Call Toll Free 1-800-522-0033 (Holm Center ext 7087, AFJROTC ext 7513, AFROTC ext 2091) 130 West Maxwell Blvd, Bldg 836 Maxwell AFB, AL 36112-6106 Holm Center News Bear Exploration Center students visit Maxwell AFB for Aerospace Day Civil Air Patrol National Headquarters and the Montgomery Chapter 102 Air and Space Forces Association aerospace education teams have partnered with Montgomery Public School’s Bear Exploration Center to support its aerospace/STEM programs for over a decade. After a two-year pause for field trips, Read More AF Global Strike Command brings Project Tuskegee, B-1B bomber to Maxwell Project Tuskegee was created by Gen. Anthony Cotton, AFGSC commander and former Air University commander. The project is a partnership with Tuskegee University where Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps are exposed to opportunities available as an AFGSC “Striker.” Read More SecAF presents leadership awards to AU faculty, staff and students The Secretary of the Air Force Leadership Award recognizes those students, cadets, faculty and staff who exhibit exemplary leadership, character and ethical behavior. It’s the most prestigious award given by Air University on behalf of the secretary of the Air Force. Read More Air Force JROTC unit aims high at national drill event Typically referred to as the Air Force Nationals, this capstone event encapsulates a year or more of perseverance, practice and precision to recognize the best drill teams across the AFJROTC enterprise. Read More Bailey takes command of Officer Training School Colonel Keolani Bailey, former vice commandant for Officer Training School, took on his new role as its commandant during a change of command ceremony, April 21, 2022, on Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. Read More Special Warfare AFROTC weekend provides hands-on career field exposure to cadets The first-ever Special Warfare Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps Weekend, or SWAW, took place April 8-10, 2022, at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado, for cadets to gain experience in and exposure to the selection process for the high-demand, low-density 19Z career fields. Read More Holm Center News Archive Officer Training School Reserve Officer Training Corps Junior ROTC Inspector General Quick Links AU Academic Affairs AU Registrar Telephone Directory Life at the Max Maxwell AFB Clinic ID Cards Heroes Welcome Alabama IG Questions AF Sites Accessibility EEO Link Disclaimer Suicide Prevention SAPR USA.gov No FEAR Act FOIA OSI Tip Line Careers AF Careers Join the Air Force AF Benefits Become an Officer Connect Get Social with Us U.S. Air Force Logo Official United States Air Force Website