Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Visual Art Show/Hide About People Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad News + Events Resources FAQs Courses for Summer 2022 Studio Foundation Required for all VA and RISD courses (with the exception of VISA0120, VISA0130, VISA0140, VISA0150 and VISA0160). Covers the basics of drawing and 2D design while cultivating the capacity for visual thinking. VISA 0100 S01 Primary Instructor Sanders VISA 0100 S02 Primary Instructor Stupar Sculpture Foundation This is an extensive study in form and structure. It is designed to develop spatial understanding and the fundamentals of 3-dimensional design and construction. Students will explore the structural, compositional and conceptual implications of common materials, such as wood, metal, plaster and found objects. Projects are designed as a means for investigating a variety of sculptural processes. Students will learn safe usage of power and hand tools, casting techniques, wood and metal work. In addition, special emphasis will be placed on creativity, critical thinking and the ability to successfully articulate ideas visually. VISA 0130 S01 Primary Instructor Stupar Photography Foundation This class is a wide ranging technical and conceptual introduction to photography. Through weekly projects, students will be exposed to 19th-21st century photo processes.Topics covered include cameras, lenses, software, darkroom overview, scanning, natural and artificial lighting, alternative processes as well as concepts such as selective focus, color temperature, composition. Short readings and in-class slide presentations on a diverse range of photographers will introduce students to the history of photography. This course will prepare students for upper level Photography classes at Brown and RISD. VISA 0140 S01 Foundation Painting Painting in acrylics for a variety of interests and aptitudes - basic instruction in media and painting procedure, emphasis on development of the image as a visual statement. Will cover basic color principles, painting techniques and concepts. Assignments cover a wide range of approaches including painting from observation, the model, individual research, and imagination. Images, related books, and articles are discussed. Individual criticism is given; participation in group discussions is required. Students not admitted during pre-registration should attend the first class. VISA 0160 S01 Primary Instructor Sanders Collaboration & Community in Print Students will be introduced to printmaking through four main techniques: relief, drypoint, collograph, and paper stencils. Just as each collaborator brings a new voice to a project, each medium affords a different mark-making style to a print. Working within these mediums, students will explore the potential for rich layered imagery, and robust variable editions. Course material will be presented through demos, lectures, in-class workshops, and critiques, and weekly feedback will be provided through individual, peer, small and large group critiques. VISA 1210M S01 Primary Instructor McMordie Academics Awards + Scholarships Course Descriptions Courses Listings Concentration Requirements Exhibitions + Guidelines Honors Independent Study Study Abroad Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Visual Art Visual Art Brown University Box 1861 List Art Building 64 College St Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2423 Fax: 401-863-1680 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Custom Footer Links A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat