Close Alert Message Alert Carolina! Normal The University is currently operating under normal conditionsLast updated at 6:00pmFriday, May 27th, 2022Skip to Main Content Top Level Navigation Discover Navigate Navigate About the UniversityDisplay Sub Menu for About the University About the University Alumni By the numbers Branding and Identity GuidelinesOpens in new site Carolina NextOpens in new site For the MediaOpens in new site Frequently Asked Questions History and Traditions Leadership Mission & Values Support the University UNC Social Media UNC SystemOpens in new site News and UpdatesDisplay Sub Menu for News and Updates News and Updates Academics Around Campus Arts & Humanities Athletics Events Calendar Global Health & Medicine Innovation & Entrepreneurship University News Research Working at CarolinaOpens in new site Campaign for CarolinaOpens in new site AcademicsDisplay Sub Menu for Academics Academics Academic Calendar and Registrar Academic Enhancements Continuing Education Opportunities Academic Departments Friday Center for Continuing Education Libraries Online and Distance EducationOpens in new site Programs and Curricula Summer School Admissions and Aid SchoolsDisplay Sub Menu for Schools Schools College of Arts & Sciences Adams School of Dentistry Education Eshelman School of Pharmacy Gillings School of Global Public Health Government Graduate School Information & Library Science Law Kenan-Flagler Business School Hussman School of Journalism and Media Medicine Nursing Social Work Come Visit Us Diversity and Inclusion Research Innovation and Economic Development Arts and Culture GlobalOpens in new site Life at CarolinaDisplay Sub Menu for Life at Carolina Life at Carolina About the Town Campus Recreation Carolina Housing Carolina UnionOpens in new site Community and Public Service Health & Wellness AthleticsDisplay Sub Menu for Athletics Athletics GoHeels.comOpens in new site Campus RecreationOpens in new site IntramuralsOpens in new site Sports ClubsOpens in new site UNC HealthOpens in new site Search The University of North Carolina at Chapel HillHide Main Navigation Menu Featured Diamond Heels claim ACC title Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title Sections Featured Bold Moves Campus Life Dynamic Minds Global Engagement Impact on Our State Search PeopleOpens in new window PlacesOpens in new window Search UNC.edu Global Engagement An unconventional path Dedren Snead '12 is an Innovator-In-Residence at the UNC Shuford Program in Entrepreneurship, but his path to this point in his career has been anything but a linear trajectory. The pivotal point in his journey, he says, was getting a degree from Carolina. By ML Parker, University Communications, Tuesday, May 31st, 2022 (Photo by Jen Hughey) Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share via Email Print Friendly Dedren Snead ’12 is many things. He’s an international businessman, a tech whiz, an artist and an entrepreneur. He has lived and worked in places like Japan, China and Korea. He has a knack for learning both foreign and computer languages quickly, and he is always coming up with big, bold ideas. It may seem unlikely that such a worldly person was born and raised in the tiny town of Snow Hill, North Carolina. Perhaps even more unlikely for Snead as a young person was the idea of attending North Carolina’s flagship university. “I grew up on a small tobacco farm in eastern North Carolina where just graduating from high school was a big deal,” he says. “You either got a job at a factory or on someone’s farm. UNC might as well have been on the moon.” Snead describes his young self as the “consummate nerd.” Video games, Dungeons and Dragons, comic books and anime defined his childhood. After school each day, Snead walked two miles to the public library where he read books about computers – and used them. “The library had accessible computer games, and we didn’t have a computer in our home,” he says. “I would stay there every afternoon until it closed.” On the weekends, Snead made the 30-minute trip from Snow Hill to Goldsboro to spend his free time and pocket change at an arcade. While he played games, he talked to the employees who maintained the machines. “I realized early on that technology and stories provided a form of escapism,” Snead says. “It was a chance for me to imagine myself outside of my current circumstances.” After graduating from high school, Snead moved to RTP and spent the next 10 years working as an IT consultant. Because it was the early days of the internet, he had enough self-taught skills to build tech and test platforms. When the dot com burst came in the early 2000s, Snead suffered. “I lost my house and 401K,” he says. “I had to start over – I began rethinking the value of a degree.” He enrolled at Wake Tech, which had just started a game design program. While he was working toward his associate degree, he learned about C-STEP, a program that enables students at community colleges to transfer to Carolina. “I asked myself, ‘What’s a thing that I could never lose?'” he says. “The answer was a degree from Chapel Hill. If I could get that, then no one could ever take it away from me.” Dedren Snead at the Great Wall of China during his study abroad in 2011. (Photo courtesy Dedren Snead) Once he transferred to Carolina in 2008, Snead decided to pursue a double major in global studies and Asian studies with a minor in entrepreneurship. “I wanted to squeeze in as many programs as I possibly could,” he says. Snead quickly realized he had a knack for learning foreign languages, and he found avenues to study abroad in both Japan and China. “I didn’t know I was good at foreign languages because no one in Snow Hill spoke them,” Snead says. “It’s the same with computer languages – I can just pick that stuff up quickly.” While Snead appreciates the many faculty members who helped guide his path at Carolina, he feels especially grateful to his first Japanese professor, Yuki Aratake. “She changed my life for the better,” Snead says. “She encouraged me to not give up on my dreams.” When he graduated in 2012, Snead was proud to have a degree from Carolina, but he faced a unique set of challenges. “I wasn’t a 20-year-old kid that could just pick up and go anywhere to get an entry-level position,” he says. “I have a house and a family – I had to find something substantial.” Fortunately, the international marketing department at Toyota offered Snead a manager-level position. After working for Toyota for five years, Snead returned to his lifelong passion for games and equity in technology. Now based in Atlanta, he runs a gamified learning platform called SUBSUME. Snead considers SUBSUME to be more than just a platform. Snead (left) stands in front of his art piece while talking with Chris Massenburg, the Rothwell Mellon program director for Creative Futures at Carolina Performing Arts, during the Hip Hop South Festival in April. (Photo by Johnny Andrews/UNC-Chapel Hill) “It’s basically all of my endeavors and ambitions put together is this one creative space,” he says. In the fall of 2021, Snead became an inaugural Innovator-In-Residence at the College of Arts & Sciences UNC Shuford Program in Entrepreneurship. He is one of seven Carolina alumni who are supporting students through academic lectures, professional development initiatives and mentoring opportunities. Each innovator comes to campus for one week per academic year, and Snead completed his week in February. Returning to Carolina served as a pertinent reminder of the pride Snead holds in his degree. “Being back on campus reminded me that UNC is at the forefront of innovation in every facet—and the students represent that,” he says. “They are engaged and open about who they are and the world they want to be a part of.” When Snead talks with students today, he emphasizes the fact that not all career paths follow a linear trajectory, that it’s OK to be unconventional, and that a Carolina education can take them anywhere. “Getting my degree from UNC was life-changing,” Snead says. “Even 10 years after graduating, being part of the Carolina family is still paying dividends and empowering me to go forward.” You May Also Like... Diamond Heels claim ACC title It was the team's first appearance in the title game since winning the title in 2019 and marks the eighth conference tournament win in program history. Tar Heels cap undefeated season with NCAA title The top-ranked Tar Heels finished the season 22-0, setting a school record for wins and becoming the first undefeated national champion since 2017. Comeback puts women’s lacrosse in championship game With a 15-14 win over Northwestern, the top-ranked Tar Heels improved to 21-0 on the season and will play for their third NCAA title. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel A commitment to the Carolina family: Jenny Levy’s leadership Jenny Levy is only the fourth person to both play on and coach a national championship women's lacrosse team. Her overall record as the Tar Heels' head mentor has been exemplary, and on Sunday the team will play for its third national title. Filing flora More than 800,000 rare, extinct and native flora have been preserved by the North Carolina Botanical Garden’s Herbarium, where biodiversity is found in every filing cabinet. Pillar of Ground Services leads quietly Whether preparing for Spring Commencement or cleaning up debris in fall, Massey winner Mark Moon keeps Carolina’s campus beautiful and his colleagues safe. Display Previous Slide of Related Articles Carousel Display Next Slide of Related Articles Carousel May 06 – Sep 12 Health Insurance is Mandatory! Campus Health Services320 Emergency Room DriveChapel HillNC27599 | May 31 Carolina Public Humanities – Great Books Reading Group 10:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Flyleaf Books752 Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.Chapel HillNC27514 | $40 Jun 03 600 HIGHWAYMEN | A Thousand Ways (Part Three): An Assembly 8:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. CURRENT ArtSpace + Studio123 W Franklin StChapel Hill27516 | $15 Display Previous Slide of Events Carousel Display Next Slide of Events Carousel Accessibility Alert Carolina Alumni Connect Carolina Campus Map Contact Us Careers Departments A – Z Ethics and Integrity For the Media Libraries People Directory Privacy Statement UNC Student Stores The Well Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest © 2022 The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share E-mail Tweet Share LinkedIn E-mail