Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. September 23, 2021 Dear Students: Beginning tomorrow, when you perform your daily self-health check on the BC Check app, you will notice slight changes to the symptoms assessment questions. The Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) and the departments of public health in Boston and Newton have recommended that University Health Services and all healthcare providers statewide adjust the standard for individuals to be screened for COVID-19. Previously, in accordance with public health recommendations, students had been advised to seek medical attention if they had one of the following symptoms within the past 24 hours: Fever (temperature over 100.4) or chills Muscle or Body Aches Headache Sore Throat Nausea or vomiting Diarrhea Fatigue Congestion or runny nose (not associated with allergies). Now, students are being advised by DPH to seek medical attention only if they have two or more of these symptoms. If you have two of the above symptoms, you should not leave your room or come to campus, but you should contact University Health Services right away. Additionally, students should now seek screening for COVID-19 if they have one of the following symptoms: New loss of taste or smell Shortness of breath Cough (not associated with allergies) If you have one of the above symptoms, you should not leave your room or come to campus, but you should contact University Health Services right away. The University has updated these new recommendations on the BC Check app. The changes were implemented by the DPH to help clarify what is likely to be a positive case of COVID-19, as opposed to a lesser illness such as a cold or sore throat. The new standard is designed to help symptomatic individuals get seen faster by medical professionals, and for people with symptoms of other illnesses—such as strep throat or viral illness—to be able to be seen by healthcare providers at a health center or clinic. Here at BC, these changes mean that students with only one symptom of COVID-19 (other than new loss of taste or smell, shortness of breath, or cough) will no longer get the X on their daily symptom app, which would have prevented them from getting an asymptomatic test in the Margot Connell Recreation Center, or visiting the non COVID-19 side of University Health Services. Students should know that experiencing symptoms such as loss of taste and smell and shortness of breath are more likely to be a sign of COVID-19, whereas an isolated runny nose is more likely to be something else. If you have any doubt about your symptoms, or related questions, please contact University Health Services. BC students are required to perform a daily self-health check each day before coming to campus. Please continue to use the BC Check app, as it is a vital asset in our community-wide effort to limit the spread of COVID-19 on our campus and in the surrounding communities, and should be used daily. In addition, I ask that you continue to make good decisions when engaging in social activities. Contact tracing shows that students who test positive for COVID-19 most often do so after having visited restaurants, bars, and clubs off campus, or having attended parties or large gatherings, especially with individuals outside of the BC community who are not vaccinated at the same high levels we have attained on campus. Limiting your exposure to high-risk situations is the best way to keep yourself and other members of the BC community healthy and safe. We have had much success in managing the pandemic on campus this year, but we must not let our guard down. By taking the appropriate cautions, we can meet the goal that we all desire—to have a successful and healthy academic year. Sincerely, Dr. Douglas Comeau Director of University Health Services Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College