Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF BUILT ENVIRONMENTS URBAN DESIGN AND PLANNING URBAN PLANNING Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 URBDP 200 Introduction to Urbanization: Planning and Designing Alternative Urban Futures (5) I&S Introduces how cities work and explores alternative ways of planning and designing urban futures. Explores the economic, cultural, political, and social aspects of cities and how we might change them for the better. Also examines numerous case studies from the Global North and South. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 200 URBDP 300 Introduction to Urban Planning (5) I&S Principles and theories of urban structure and institutions. Concepts and logic of planning as a community process and a professional activity. Evolution of planning ideas in response to changing social, economic, and environmental conditions within the American political framework. Complementary nature of public and private responsibilities. Major procedures used by planners. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 300 URBDP 301 Database Management Fundamentals (3) Introduces the tasks and roles that contribute to the management of the design and security of database systems in an organizational context. Students gain a basic understanding of database management systems and administrative practices, as well as hands-on database experience. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 301 URBDP 370 Reading the City (5) VLPA/I&S Comprehending cities as reflection of individual reader and social/cultural context. Skills for analyzing everyday, visible evidence of the city. Topics include self-identity with place, city, image and perception, visual design analysis; and place as representation of culture. Extensive writing, multiple texts, collaborative work in groups and fieldwork. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 370 URBDP 404 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (3) Provides students with introductory practical knowledge of Geographical Information Systems and Science for current and future coursework in urban planning. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 404 URBDP 405 The Urban Form (3) VLPA Elements, patterns, and evolution of urban form. The forces that shaped cities in history. Contemporary trends. Methods of urban morphological analysis as related to urban design and planning practices. Required for MUP graduate students. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 405 URBDP 422 Urban and Regional Geospatial Analysis (5) Principles of GIS applied to problems in urban design and planning, landscape architecture, and environmental and resource studies. Practical problem-solving approaches using contemporary desktop mapping packages and vector and raster GIS systems. Siting, environmental evaluation and inventories, and modeling. Prerequisite: either GEOG 317, GEOG 360, GEOG 461, GEOG 462, GEOG 465, FISH 452, or OCEAN 452. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 422 URBDP 423 Introduction to Urban Design (3) VLPA/I&S Definitions and examples of urban design; heritage of urban design; theories of city building; the role of urban design in the fields of architecture, landscape architecture, and urban planning. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 423 URBDP 424 Site Planning: Issues and Techniques (3) Introduction to site planning; how it is regulated; why it is important to know; and how to carry out its key tasks, including residential subdivision and mixed-use development layout; basic topographical and hydrological analysis and manipulation; roadways, parking and hierarchies of circulation, and site design detail. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 424 URBDP 446 Practical Experience (4, max. 8) Off-campus internship under academic supervision in situations useful to the education of planners, such as public/private planning and design offices, projects related to the environment, cross-cultural matters, and decision making. Assistance in identifying appropriate projects. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 446 URBDP 450 Introduction to Land Use, Growth Management, and Environmental Planning (3) Provides an understanding of contemporary land use issues (including sprawl, smart growth, new urbanism, transit-oriented development, and Washington's Growth Management Act) and examines their environmental impact and social welfare implications. Analyzes best-practice techniques of growth management. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 450 URBDP 451 Housing (3) I&S Survey of housing and redevelopment problems, theories, standards, and practice. Development of public policies, finance, technological considerations, social factors, and priorities. Prerequisite: 3.0 in URBDP 300. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 451 URBDP 457 Housing in Developing Countries (3) Emphasis on role of the design and planning professional in housing delivery in developing countries. Exploration of issues of culture, political environment, social context, economic circumstances, and other factors which define and limit the manner in which the professional planner and designer can and should function. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 457 URBDP 466 Infrastructure and Community Facilities (4) Issues and methods associated with planning for parks, schools, drainage, sewerage, utilities, libraries, solid waste, and transportation. Covers their relationship to comprehensive plans, project permitting, and impact assessment. Financing, regulating, and relationships to social, environmental, and economic goals are discussed. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 466 URBDP 467 Urban Planning Uses of Remote Sensing (3) Using aerial photographs and satellite image data in urban planning. Urban change analysis, land-use and land cover classification, and environmental planning applications. Scale and resolution considerations. Development of proficiency through laboratory exercises and use of image-processing software. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 467 URBDP 480 Planning as a Profession (1) Provides students interested in the planning profession an opportunity to understand the different pathways and career choices within the profession. Introduces students to guest professionals in various planning careers and highlight key issues, skills used, and tips to entering the field. Focuses on professional practice rather than analytical methods or theory. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 480 URBDP 481 Metropolitan Planning and Development in Developing Countries (3) I&S Examination of the nature and causes of urban planning and management problems in developing countries and exploration of alternative approaches to solve some of these problems. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 481 URBDP 498 Special Topics (1-9, max. 15) Systematic study of specialized subject matter. Topics for each quarter vary, depending upon current interest and needs, and are announced in the preceding quarter. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 498 URBDP 499 Special Projects (1-12, max. 12) Independent/tutorial study for undergraduates. Individual reading, research, fieldwork, or other special project, outlined in advance, approved by, and under the direction of, the faculty adviser most appropriate for the project proposed. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 499 URBDP 500 Survey of Urban Planning (4) Concepts and logic of planning as a professional activity. Evolution of guiding ideas in relation to changing social, economic, and environmental conditions within the American political framework. Major procedures used by planners. Critical appraisal. Open to graduate students in urban design and planning and to graduate students in architecture seeking the urban design certificate. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 500 URBDP 501 Comprehensive Planning and Implementation (4) Reviews the comprehensive planning process as a part of managing metropolitan growth. Examines federal/state statutes affecting local government comprehensive plans. Includes local government land use regulations and reviews development process. Concentrates on tools to shape land use and development patterns and their effectiveness in creating outcomes specified in comprehensive plans. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 501 URBDP 502 Tools for Sustainable Cities (4) Examines specific tools used for planning sustainable cities, including hands-on learning, speakers, case studies, and site tours to enrich students' knowledge and experience. Prerequisite: CEP 200 or URBDP 300. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 502 URBDP 503 Communication and Analysis (3) Development of communication skills understanding within the planning and design process. Presentation of communications as a design process with mental, visual, oral, written, and kinesthetic cognitive actions combined to form communications thinking. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 503 URBDP 504 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (3) Provides students with introductory practical knowledge of Geographical Information Systems and Science for current and future coursework in urban planning. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 504 URBDP 505 The Urban Form (3) Elements, patterns, and evolution of urban form. The forces that shaped cities in history. Contemporary trends. Methods of urban morphological analysis as related to urban design and planning practices. Required for MUP graduate students. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 505 URBDP 506 Planning Studio Prep (3) Introduces plan-making process, provides time for background research, issue identification, public involvement, and preliminary analysis. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 506 URBDP 507 General Urban Planning Laboratory (5) Studio/field project in applied professional planning of a comprehensive nature, utilizing a local study area to examine the realities of problem solving in situations of functional and normative conflict. Integration of analysis, programming, implementation, and presentation phases of the planning process. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 507 URBDP 508 Specialized Planning Laboratory (5, max. 10) Studio/field project on a specialized planning problem. Several options are offered each year, such as regional-environmental planning, housing, metropolitan planning, and urban design. Prerequisite: ARCH 500 and ARCH 507. Additional prerequisite for some sections: urban planning seminar or lecture courses. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 508 URBDP 509 Resources for Urban Planning (1) Provides an opportunity for students to explore and discuss issues of professional practice with practicing planners in an informal context. Questions posed by the participants usually emphasize practical aspects of working as planners. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 509 URBDP 510 Theories and Methodologies of Planning I (4) Survey of the philosophy, methods, and analytical techniques used in planning public actions and policies, with emphasis on the logic and assumptions upon which these are based. Various planning surveys and methods. Open to graduate students in urban design and planning and to graduate students seeking the urban design certificate. Prerequisite: URBDP 500. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 510 URBDP 512 Research Seminar (3) Planning, designing, and undertaking applied research in an urban setting. Framing, critically assessing, managing, and presenting research used in urban planning and design. Conceptual modeling of causal relationships, choice among experimental and quasi-experimental designs, and ethical and political implications of research undertakings. Exercises leading to a complete research design. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 512 URBDP 513 Real Estate Development Studio ([2-5]-, max. 5) The Real Estate Development studio is a required for the MSRE option in RE Development. The focus of the course has been traditionally on competitions. The course will continue to focus in commercial real estate competitions (NAIOP) and projects in the autumn quarter, however a focus on affordable housing will be the emphasis while pursuing the Bank of America's affordable Housing Challenge in the winter and spring quarter. Offered: jointly with R E 551; AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 513 URBDP 514 Race and Social Justice Seminar (1) This course will explore concepts of race, racism, class, social justice, and make explicit their connections between design and planning. It does so to build student understanding about how, and the degree to which, these disciplines have historically addressed these topics, and where they stand currently. This exploration will include progress made, challenges, and overt actions that have and may continue to work in racist and unjust ways. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 514 URBDP 516 Real Estate Economics and Market Analysis (4) Arthur Acolin Introduces students to real estate market studies for different uses. Covers five areas: basic economic concepts critical in the understanding of real estate markets; urban economy; land rent theory; locational analysis and decision making; and market analysis. Offered: jointly with R E 516; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 516 URBDP 518 Qualitative Methods for Urban Design and Planning (3) Surveys use of qualitative methods in urban design and planning practice and research, especially in relationship to places and people. Students develop methodological and analytical skills useful in research and in professional practice. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 518 URBDP 519 Qualitative Research Methods (3) Qualitative research methods covering both the theoretical foundations and practical methodologies of traditional and innovative approaches, including cognitive mapping, open-ended interviews, ethnographic observation, hermeneutics, phenomenology, critical theory, communicative action, grass-roots empowerment, post-structuralism, and self organization. Offered: jointly with ARCH 567. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 519 URBDP 520 Quantitative Methods in Urban Design and Planning (5) Methods of statistical and mathematical analysis in design and planning. Emphasizes the use of computer packages for analyzing urban data. Regression, matrix methods, cohort-survival populations models with examples solved on microcomputers. Prerequisite: coursework in arithmetic and basic algebra. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 520 URBDP 522 Urban and Regional Geospatial Analysis (5) Provides theoretical and practical skills for analyzing spatial patterns and phenomena in metropolitan areas. Students explore the functionality of GIS as an effective tool for analyzing and modeling complex spatial relationships within urban environments. Emphasis is given to data integration and modeling through both raster and vector systems. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 522 URBDP 523 Introduction to Urban Design (3) I&S/VLPA Definitions and examples of urban design; heritage of urban design; theories of city building; the role of urban design in the fields of architecture, landscape architecture, and urban planning. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 523 URBDP 524 Site Planning: Issues and Techniques (3) Introduction to site planning; how it is regulated; why it is important to know; and how to carry out its key tasks, including residential subdivision and mixed-use development layout; basic topographical and hydrological analysis and manipulation; roadways, parking and hierarchies of circulation, and site design detail. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 524 URBDP 525 Evaluation in Urban Planning (3) Methods and techniques for a priori assessment of physical improvement plans, program designs, public policies. Includes cost effectiveness and matrix or goal achievement, as well as more conventional cost-benefit and cost-revenue forms of analysis. Emphasis on understanding the reasoning and issues in evaluation, and gaining a working competence in at least one of the methods treated. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 525 URBDP 526 Floodplain Management and Planning for Coastal and River Communities (3) R. FREITAG Focuses on ways to live with and cope with flooding.Examines coastal and riverine floodplain services, values and assets within the context of ecosystem services; determine risks and opportunities associated with flooding and floodplains; advance identified strategies and explore benefits and adverse impacts resulting from these strategies; and gain a better appreciation for coastal and riverine floodplains. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 526 URBDP 532 Current Topics in Transportation Planning and Policy (4) Provides an opportunity to advance the student's knowledge by examining selected topics in depth and gaining critical insights about the interconnectivity of various planning and policy approaches. Gives a broad exposure to urban transportation problems and introduces different ideas and practices aimed at addressing these problems, along with important concepts and analytical frameworks. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 532 URBDP 536 Health Impact Assessment (2) Examines the use of Health Impact Assessment as a public health tool for informing decision-makers about the potential health impacts of proposed projects and policies. Students learn the steps for conducting HIAs, review case studies, and conduct an HIA of a current local proposed project. Offered: jointly with ENV H 536. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 536 URBDP 538 Public Health and the Built Environment (2) Examines how the design of communities and land use and transportation decision have positive and adverse effects on health. Considers built environment impacts on physical activity, obesity, air quality, injuries, mental health, social capital, and environmental justice; and explores interventions to promote healthy community design. Offered: jointly with ENV H 538. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 538 URBDP 547 Professional Project (1-9, max. 9) Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 547 URBDP 549 Hazard Mitigation Planning (3) A survey of the field of planning for managing risks of natural hazards-earthquakes, floods, coastal/meteorological hazards, and human-caused technological hazards/terrorism. Covers pre-event mitigation through building and land-use controls; disaster preparedness; post-even response, recovery, and mitigation of future hazards. Emphasizes hazard mitigation as a long-term strategy for achieving sustainability of communities. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 549 URBDP 550 Land Use, Growth Management and Environmental Planning (3) Provides an understanding of contemporary land use issues (including sprawl, smart growth, new urbanism, transit-oriented development, and Washington's Growth Management Act) and examines their environmental and social welfare implications. Analyzes best practice techniques of growth management. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 550 URBDP 551 Real Estate Asset Management (3) P. Stone Focuses on the fundamentals and structure of asset management from a value improvement perspective. Students are educated on the proactive manner asset managers need to respond to changing tenant needs and competitive market condition, while focusing on the asset appreciation throughout the ownership cycle (acquisition, leasing and disposition). Offered: jointly with R E 517; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 551 URBDP 552 Introduction to Real Estate (3) S. DERMISI Provides a basic overview of the participants, processes, workings of different components of the real estate industry (including a variety of uses spanning from residential, office, retail and industrial to specialized) as well as the quantitative components of the real estate decision-making. Additionally, students are introduced to an overview of construction management, sustainability, corporate services, property law and ethics. Offered: jointly with R E 510; A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 552 URBDP 553 Urban Land Economics (4) Introduces urban economics, land markets, and locational decision making; and examines urban spatial structure and the economic, political, social, technological, and historical forces that shape land values and uses. Uses applied spatial analytical tools including geographic information systems and geogemographic software. Offered: jointly with R E 553; A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 553 URBDP 554 Real Estate Finance and Investment (4) Introduces students to basic real estate finance and institutional analysis allowing them to quantify the financial implications of real estate decisions. Topics include: basic time value of money, financial leverage, discounted cash flow analysis (properties and institutional portfolios), assessment of various real estate investment classes and distribution of proceeds to investors. Prerequisite: R E 552/URBDP 552. Offered: jointly with R E 513; A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 554 URBDP 555 Real Estate Valuation and Appraisal (3) Timothy E Overland Every property is unique, therefore the appraisal of real estate presents many challenges and has a strong influence on the financial viability of both existing buildings and the development process. General models for valuing commercial property, industrial property, and land will be introduced. The role of appraisals and different concepts of value will be examined. Offered: jointly with R E 511; A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 555 URBDP 556 Real Estate Investment (4) Focuses on direct real estate investment based on the productive capacity of the total property, debt, and equity components and their impact on the cash returns in the form of positive returns to the property, tax savings potential, alternative leverage effects, and the gains at sale. Offered: jointly with R E 556; W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 556 URBDP 557 Real Estate Law (3) J. Fandel, S. Osborne Focuses on the legal principles and issues essential to understanding the workings of the real estate industry, including the fundamentals of real estate transactions and development projects. Offered: jointly with R E 515; W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 557 URBDP 558 Real Estate Market Analysis (4) Prepares students to conduct and interpret market studies to cover a range of real estate decisions. Exposes students to the market analysis process and various tools and techniques that can be used to analyze and forecast supply, demand, and rental rates. Offered: jointly with R E 558; W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 558 URBDP 559 Real Estate Portfolio Management (5) Students develop formal portfolio management strategies that draw on their in-depth understanding of real estate fundamentals, strategic planning and portfolio theory. Working in teams, students prepare cutting-edge portfolio strategies including the policies and procedures for implementation and portfolio management. Offered: jointly with R E 569; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 559 URBDP 560 Inequality, Governance, and Policy in the Metropolitan Region (3/4) Explores national/local urban policy concerning the major problems confronting cities and metropolitan regions today. Economic globalization, income inequality, and metropolitan decentralization shape the urban agenda, the context for urban policy, and the analytic focus of the course. A project allows the exploration of strategies for intervention. Offered: jointly with PUBPOL 560. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 560 URBDP 561 Urban Economics and Public Policy (4) Examines the rationale for and consequences of public intervention in urban land, housing, and transportation markets through land use regulations such as zoning and growth management, infrastructure investments, and fiscal policies to manage urban development and traffic. Prerequisite: successful completion of an introductory microeconomics course or permission of the instructor. Offered: jointly with PUBPOL 561. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 561 URBDP 562 Introduction to Neighborhood Planning and Community Development (3) Provides introduction to basic practices in neighborhood planning and community development, including theoretical/historical bases; developing neighborhood plans/projects; indicators and evaluation of neighborhood quality; community participation; institutional framework, ethical dilemmas, and professional roles. Addresses current issues, including Seattle's experience, NIMBYism, security, neighborhood character, housing segregation, etc. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 562 URBDP 564 Planning History, Theory, and Ethics (3) Examines major historical landmarks since the Civil War (urban, suburban, and rural, physical and social-economic); theoretical alternatives (rationalism, pluralism-advocacy, critical theory, bio-regionalism, dissipative models); and ethical issues (such as distributive justice and principles of professional conduct). View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 564 URBDP 565 American Urban History (3) Intensive lecture/seminar designed to provide students the opportunity for immersion in historical scholarship that addresses social, economic, political, technological, and cultural forces that have shaped the development of American cities. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 565 URBDP 566 Infrastructure and Community Facilities (4) Issues and methods associated with planning for parks, schools, drainage, sewerage, utilities, libraries, solid waste, and transportation. Covers their relationship to comprehensive plans, project permitting, and impact assessment. Financing, regulating, and relationships to social, environmental, and economic goals are discussed. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 566 URBDP 567 Democracy, Citizenship, and Participation in the City (3) Graduate seminar on democracy in cities. Focuses on contemporary ideas, debates, and initiatives. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 567 URBDP 568 Real Estate Feasibility (4) Applies critical thinking needed to understand the drivers of value of the major property types which covers the "user in search of a site" and "investor in search of involvement' feasibility questions. Applies a combination of qualitative and quantitative analysis to target markets. Offered: jointly with R E 560; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 568 URBDP 573 Digital Design (4) Uses digital technologies for mapping, drafting, modeling, and communication. Includes real-world case study projects that focus on urban design and planning issues. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 573 URBDP 576 Pedestrian Travel, Land Use, and Urban Form (3) Seminar concentrating on walking as a mode of transportation in cities and city-regions, including social, cognitive, and perceptual dimensions of pedestrian movement and behavior theory. Offered: jointly with CET 586. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 576 URBDP 577 Real Estate Project Finance (3) Introduces financing real property projects developed by public, community, and private entities with a primary emphasis on interim (acquisition/development/construction) and take-out lending for new real estate projects. Offered: jointly with R E 570; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 577 URBDP 578 Real Estate Development (4) H. Oliver Introduction and survey of processes and people involved in developing real estate, including issues of site control, public/private approvals, feasibility analysis, project financing, design/construction, marketing, and asset management. Prerequisite: R E 552/URBDP 552. Offered: jointly with R E 550. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 578 URBDP 579 Real Estate Capital Markets (3) Analyses capital flows (global and national) and emerging capital market trends that affect the industry. Pays special attention to securitized real estate, including Real Estate Investment Trusts, and Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities. Offered: jointly with R E 541; W. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 579 URBDP 580 Legal and Administrative Framework for Planning (3) Political, legal, and administrative institutions closely related to the planning process. Issues of devolution of authority and public representation and participation. Legal basis for planning and associated regulation. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 580 URBDP 585 Introduction to Historic Preservation Planning (3) Theories, methods, and practices associated with historic preservation planning. Overview of preservation planning programs at federal, state, and local levels. Introduction to tools and methods needed to identify, document, evaluate, and plan for protection of historic properties. Provides opportunity to learn fundamentals of preservation planning through practical experience. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 585 URBDP 586 Implementation in Preservation Planning (4) Practical experience in identifying, documenting, evaluating and developing strategies for protection of historic resources, building on introductory theories, methods, and practices. Develops skills critical to preservation planning via research, fieldwork, and writing. Prerequisite: introductory course in preservation. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 586 URBDP 587 Preservation and the Vernacular Environment (3) Exploration of theoretical, methodological, and practical issues related to the preservation of vernacular architecture and cultural landscapes in the United States. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 587 URBDP 590 Real Estate Forum I (1) Provides an opportunity for students to learn about the interdisciplinary nature of real estate from industry leaders. Discusses current issues and opportunities in the industry as well as what it takes to develop a sustainable career path. Offered: jointly with R E 590; A. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 590 URBDP 591 Doctoral Seminar I (4-) Researchable issues and research methodology. Discussion and critique of selected pieces of recent research work. Presentation and critique of research proposed by members of the seminar. Prerequisite: master's degree or equivalent in a planning discipline. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 591 URBDP 592 Doctoral Seminar II (-4-) Researchable issues and research methodology. Discussion and critique of selected pieces of recent research work. Presentation and critique of research proposed by members of the seminar. Prerequisite: master's degree or equivalent in a planning discipline. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 592 URBDP 593 Doctoral Seminar III (-4) Researchable issues and research methodology. Discussion and critique of selected pieces of recent research work. Presentation and critique of research proposed by members of the seminar. Prerequisite: master's degree or equivalent in a planning discipline. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 593 URBDP 596 Community Resilience (3) Robert Freitag, Himanshu Grover Introduction to resilience thinking. Students apply resilience concepts to real world communities and infrastructures impacted by real events, and gain practice in supporting policies, programs, and projects that enhance overall resilience. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 596 URBDP 598 Special Topics (1-6, max. 15) Systematic study of specialized subject matter. Topics vary for each quarter, depending upon current interest and needs, and are announced in the preceding quarter. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 598 URBDP 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 600 URBDP 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 700 URBDP 800 Doctoral Dissertation (*-) View course details in MyPlan: URBDP 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022