Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding News Interracial Couples Have Lower Fertility Rates on Average, Qian Finds April 16, 2021 PSTC sociologist and Associate Director Zhenchao Qian has co-authored a new article in Journal of Marriage and Family examining the fertility rates... Journaling project captures the experiences of ordinary people during COVID-19 pandemic December 9, 2020 In order to collect submissions without being “extractive or intrusive,” users maintain ownership over their submissions and sign consent forms to... Steenland studies effects of new Medicaid reimbursement policy for postpartum contraceptives December 7, 2020 Steenland believes that providing long-acting reversible contraception in the immediate postpartum period will give women more control over... COVID-19 School Response Dashboard equips parents, teachers, and policymakers with infection data December 3, 2020 PSTC economist Emily Oster's dashboard has been featured in the New York Times, NPR, and in her own Opinion article for the Washington Post. Effects of paternal education on infant health outcomes vary by race and ethnicity, Rangel and Rauscher find November 24, 2020 “Looking at the relationship between paternal education and infant health is another way to understand how parents pass on their educational... Rauscher receives grant to research effects of school funding cuts during the pandemic November 19, 2020 The PSTC Sociologist hopes to understand the extent to which school budget cuts will will increase inequality among students. Bastani investigates addiction interventions in Iran and the U.S. November 12, 2020 His work will examine the relationship between governments and health outcomes. Closing the gap in household food spending fails to eliminate the socioeconomic gap in food healthfulness, Shapiro and Hastings find October 27, 2020 The researchers used detailed transaction data from a large US grocery retailer in conjunction with nutritional information. Galárraga, Kuo and Harrison publish research on economic incentives for young people living with HIV October 15, 2020 Young people living with HIV endorse economic incentives, especially cash, as a method of improving adherence to treatment, according to the findings. PSTC News Welcome to the 2022 PSTC Undergraduate Fellows May 12, 2022 The PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program is an eight-week, paid summer fellowship that aims to prepare current Brown undergraduates to engage in rigorous empirical research in population studies, public policy and related... Argenis Hurtado Moreno Named Ford Foundation PreDoctoral Fellow April 11, 2022 Anthropology trainee Argenis Hurtado Moreno has been named a 2022 Ford Foundation PreDoctoral Fellow. Every Household Its Own Government: Improvised Infrastructure, Entrepreneurial Citizens, and the State in Nigeria March 23, 2022 In his recently published book, Daniel Jordan Smith highlights Nigerian resilience amidst inadequate government support. Female Partners of Incarcerated Males Experience Negative Labor Market Outcomes November 1, 2021 PSTC economist Terry-Ann Craigie explores how mass incarceration negatively impacts the female partners of male inmates. New Book Investigates Educational Mobility Within Immigrant Communities September 14, 2021 In her new book, The Succeeders: How Immigrant Youth Are Transforming What It Means to Belong in America, cultural anthropologist and PSTC Faculty Associate Andrea Flores examines the complex relationship between US... School-Based Clubs Promote Health and Education among Adolescents in Ethiopia August 4, 2021 David Lindstrom presented work in late July to Ethiopian policymakers. T32 Predoctoral Trainees Update June 28, 2021 We checked in with the 2020-2021 T32 fellowship recipients to find out about their current research. Candipan receives grant to investigate effects of changing neighborhood and school contexts on students over time May 10, 2021 “This project aims to contribute new knowledge about how racial/ethnic segregation in neighborhoods and schools relates to mental health and academic persistence from childhood to early adulthood,” Candipan explained. Congratulations to our 2021 PhD Graduates! May 6, 2021 We celebrate and congratulate the 8 PSTC trainees who received their PhDs last weekend. More PSTC News In the News "It's not just Uvalde, Texas — gunfire on school grounds is at historic high in the US" May 27, 2022 | USA Today | Megan Ranney Dr. Megan Ranney says exposure to gun violence at school can have lifelong consequences for students and communities. Time Magazine names Emily Oster as one of the 100 Most Influential People of 2022 May 24, 2022 | Time | Emily Oster Searching for ways to limit induced demand in a car-loving society March 11, 2022 | Governing.com | Matthew Turner Reducing congestion and its problems of pollution and carbon emissions won’t be easy or cheap. But transportation experts continue to search for answers. COVID-19 has taken heavy toll on health workers and systems, Brown physician-scientist tells Congress March 11, 2022 | Brown.edu | Dr. Megan Ranney Dr. Megan Ranney, a practicing emergency physician and academic dean of Brown’s School of Public Health, told a U.S. House committee that the nation can learn from the past to build stronger, more viable health care... Why America Has Been So Stingy In Fighting Child Poverty February 27, 2022 | National Public Radio | PSTC Economist Anna Aizer Bias against boys? The Gender Gap in Schools February 18, 2022 | NBC 10 News | Jayanti Owens Assistant Professor of International and Public Affairs and Sociology Jayanti Owens, who studies gender and racial disparities in education, says the lack of time for play in many schools can be tough on boys in... Questions amid Ida’s destruction: Stay? Move? How far? October 5, 2021 | Associated Press | Elizabeth Fussell PSTC sociologist Elizabeth Fussell comments on environmental migrants. The sad, predictable limits of America’s “economic recovery” September 22, 2021 | Vox | John Friedman PSTC economist John Friedman comments on persistent economic inequality in the context of the pandemic. More in the News Twitter Tweets by PSTC_Brown Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat