Skip to Navigation Skip to Navigation Skip to Search Skip to Search Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Links For information about COVID-19 policies and restrictions on campus, please visit the UCLA COVID-19 resources website. Events Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give About About About Overview General Info Facts & Figures Rankings Leadership History Mission & Values Mission & Values Strategic Plan Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Impact Contributions & Discoveries Global Engagement Recognition Awards & Honors Athletic Championships & Medals Notable Alumni UCLA Ranked No. 1 Public University UCLA tops all public universities in the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings. Admission Admission Admission Overview Undergraduate Undergraduate Admission Undergraduate Tuition & Fees Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Tours Graduate Graduate Admission Graduate Tuition & Fees Graduate Funding Graduate Tours Additional Information International Applicants Extension Program Summer Sessions Academics Academics Academics Overview Explore Degree Programs & Majors College & Professional Schools Education Undergraduate Education Graduate & Professional Education Extension Courses & Certificates Summer Sessions Study Abroad Continuing Education Support Career Preparation Academic Advising First Generation New Student Programs Honors & Advanced Study Resources Libraries Academic Calendar Course Schedule Course Catalogue Research Research Research Campus Resources Research Across Campus Technology & Innovation Investments & Partnerships Libraries Student Research Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Campus Life Campus Life Campus Life Overview Campus Housing Residential Life Dining Health & Wellness Sustainability Student Life Clubs & Organizations Sports & Recreation Arts & Performance Volunteering & Service Directory Academic Calendar Maps & Directions Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Newsroom Magazine Alumni Arts Give Open Search About The Public’s University As a public research university, our mission is the creation, dissemination, preservation and application of knowledge for the betterment of our global society. UCLA combines the close-knit learning environment of a spirited public school with the endless opportunities of a world-class city. Located in beautiful Westwood, minutes from Hollywood and the downtown city center of Los Angeles, the university offers everything you need to reach your full potential. Awards and Honors A history of world changers. And we’re just getting started. With 15 Nobel Laureates, 15 MacArthur Fellows, 119 NCAA championships and more Olympic medals than most nations, UCLA has become a household name synonymous with academic and athletic excellence. Because of this storied history it’s easy to imagine that we’ve been around forever, when in fact, UCLA turned a youthful 100 in 2019. In other words, we’re just getting started. See Awards and Honors No other higher-education institution has achieved, innovated or impacted the world more in its first 100 years. As a world-class institution, UCLA has played a role in shaping the present world in every way.” Community Engagement and Impact Los Angeles. A home for helpful visionaries. The global city of Los Angeles is a dynamic environment for building and testing dreams. People come here because they want to make the world a better place and they find support in our mission, values and community. Their passion becomes a public service to the city, state and the world. Local Impact Global Engagement Frequently Requested UCLA Athletics UCLA Athletics Hall of Fame Sign up for news, stories, and events from UCLA Strategic Communications Email First Name Last Name Zip Code Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration. You may unsubscribe at any time. Zip code is used to improve the content we share. Refer to our Terms of Use for more information on how we store and protect your data. Los Angeles 90095(310) 825-4321 Contact Directory Academic Calendar Careers Contact Us Media & Journalists Campus Campus Map Parking Campus Shuttles Public Transit Community Alumni Parents & Families Faculty Staff Emeriti & Retirees Venue & Events Conference Center & Hotel Film Production Event Planning Related Sites Athletics Extension Health Store Giving Centennial The Arts Arts Gateway Hammer Museum Fowler Museum Center for the Art of Performance Facebook Instagram Linked Twitter Youtube TikTok Snapchat © 2022 Regents of the University of California Emergency Accessibility Report Misconduct Privacy & Terms of Use Cookie Policy We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised Privacy Policy. I Accept