Penn Home Webmail About VPSE About Team Contact Us Giving Pre-College Prep Courses Upward Bound Upward Bound Math – Science (UBM-S) Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) Penn Rising Scholar Success Academy (PennRSSA) Provost’s Summer Mentorship Program (SMP) Support Services Educational Talent Search (ETS) Undergraduate University of Pennsylvania College Achievement Program (PennCAP) Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF) Penn Knowledge is Power Program (PennKIPP) University-Wide Pipeline Programs Penn Pipeline Programs Council Program Directory K-12 Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Professional Programs About VPSE About Team Contact Us Giving Pre-College Prep Courses Upward Bound Upward Bound Math – Science (UBM-S) Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) Penn Rising Scholar Success Academy (PennRSSA) Provost’s Summer Mentorship Program (SMP) Support Services Educational Talent Search (ETS) Undergraduate University of Pennsylvania College Achievement Program (PennCAP) Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship (MMUF) Penn Knowledge is Power Program (PennKIPP) University-Wide Pipeline Programs Penn Pipeline Programs Council Program Directory K-12 Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Professional Programs Veterans Upward Bound Home (VUB) College Preparatory Services Team Veteran Resources Contact Us Apply PennVPSE HomeVeterans Upward Bound Free College and Career Support for Veterans The TRIO Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) program hosted by the Division of the Vice Provost for Student Engagement (VPSE) at the University of Pennsylvania is a free college preparatory program for eligible veterans federally funded with a grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The program offers virtual and in person college prep services including academic assessment, digital literacy programming, advising, and counseling; non-credit academic classes and tutoring; college and financial aid application assistance, and educational support services. The primary goal of VUB is to prepare eligible veterans to enter, persist, and graduate from their college of choice. Community Partnerships Local Veterans’ Organizations The Veterans Upward Bound Program actively partners and collaborates with Philadelphia, Southeastern Pennsylvania, and South Jersey veterans’ organizations. About Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) The Veterans Upward Bound (VUB) program is funded by the U. S. Department of Education, under Title IV of the Higher Education Act known as a TRIO program, to serve 160 students. The program is administered by the Division of the Vice Provost for Student Engagement (VPSE) at the University of Pennsylvania. The program seeks veterans that are committed to their education and are highly motivated in their pursuit of attaining a college education and achieving their career and professional goals. Contact us > News Urging caution but not panic on monkeypox Learn More > Building Penn Medicine’s Pavilion helped launch his career. Now, William Griffin is going places Learn More > Cosmic Writers brings free creative writing education to school-aged children Learn More > St. Leonard’s Court, Suite 110 3819 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Admissions Financial Aid Academic Calendar Campus Maps Diversity at Penn © 2022 Vice Provost for Student Engagement Privacy Disclaimer Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help