Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Start Here The UofM Experience Visit Connect Apply Admitted Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact The Basics Info For... High SchoolFreshmenTransferInternationalOnline (UofM Global)ReadmitsGraduateLaw SchoolNon-Degree SeekingParents & FamiliesHS Counselors Application Process Deadlines Costs + Value Tuition Overview Residency Policy Border County Waivers Paying for College Student Right To Know Take Action Request Information Apply to UofM Campus Visits and Events Contact Us Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home Undergraduate Admissions and Orientation Admissions Basics Costs + Value The Value of a UofM Education The UofM is committed to providing quality education at an affordable price. We offer a guaranteed tuition plan with locked-in rates for eight consecutive semesters. College is worth every penny you invest in it. Your degree will open doors and opportunities that will change your life. So, keeping up with tuition and fees is important. University & Student Business Services (USBS) is your go-to place for student fee information. By exploring the website of University & Student Business Services, you'll find your student fee information and general payment guidelines; and you can go to TigerXpress, where you can view your account detail, pay your fees and charges online, sign up for the Installment Payment Plan, and sign up for eRefunds (direct deposit) for fastest receipt of excess financial aid/scholarships. Tuition Overview Place of residency can affect tuition. Tennessee Residents: In-state students incur the standard tuition rates. Non-Residents: The UofM offers a substantial tuition reduction compared to previous costs to non-resident students (undergraduate students who attend(ed) a high school outside the State of Tennessee or the border counties of the Memphis metropolitan area). This benefit means students are charged the equivalent of in-state tuition rates on any credits over 12 in a given term. Border County Residents: There is no change in tuition charges for those students who reside in one of the 5 bordering counties. Learn more > International: Approximate cost of international tuition for a Bachelor’s degree in 4 years of study = $86,376 (assuming average of 15 credit hours per semester) Review the residency policy to learn more. Visit USBS and learn more about fees > View the most up-to-date fee schedules > Tuition Estimator > Price + Fit = Access Memphis We believe income should never get in the way of education. That’s why we’ve had the lowest tuition and fee increases in the state of Tennessee over the past five years. More than 90% of our full-time freshmen receive financial aid, and once enrolled, are supported through various ACCESS MEMPHIS programs, dedicated to helping keep them in school and meet educational goals. Because at UofM, we’re all about forward progress. Tuition Guaranteed Tuition Plan: Lock in your rate for eight consecutive semesters. Tuition Cap: Credit hours above 12 hours for undergraduate Tennessee residents and 10 hours for graduate Tennessee residents incur no additional charge. Uniform Tuition Rates: Traditional and online courses are offered at the same rate per credit hour. Scholarships Scholarship Opportunities: 700+ scholarships are awarded annually. Academic scholarships begin at 3.25 GPA and 22 ACT or SAT equivalent. Additional scholarships based on leadership, service and diversity. The Memphis Promise: The Memphis Promise is a commitment to assist Tennessee residents with funding their college education at the University of Memphis by awarding a last-dollar scholarship to fill the gap between a student’s financial aid and the cost of tuition. Learn More About Access Memphis > Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 4/13/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.