Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Purchasing » VPAT Set Navigation title in component Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist What is a VPAT? In purchasing EIT (Electronic and Information Technology), the university assesses how a product or service conforms to Section 508 Accessibility Standards. The VPAT (Voluntary Product Accessibility Template), is the current tool the university uses to communicate with vendors about accessibility. The VPAT is completed by the vendor to assist in the procurement process and can vary in format. It is used to outline a product's conformance with an accessibility standard–WCAG 2.0, for example. The VPAT might say that the product conforms to WCAG 2.0 standard 1.1 Text Equivalent (Level A) requiring that "images, audio, video, animations, mathematical formulas and other non-text content that convey information must have equivalent alternative text..." It is the responsibility of the individual/department purchasing the EIT to request a VPAT from the vendor when buying a product. What is VPAT used for? The University of Cincinnati relies on vendors to complete a VPAT for transparent communication of EIT accessibility. Since this data relies on self-reported findings supplied by the vendor, VPATs have to be interpreted by the purchaser. The vendor may lack the technical expertise to accurately assess a product's accessibility or the significance of an accessibility barrier may be trivialized. It is recommended that the purchaser always read through and verify the VPAT, and in some cases, consult with an accessibility expert from the Accessibility Network. Are all VPATS the same? Each vendor is likely to approach the VPAT a little differently. Their responses can vary in standards (e.g., Section 508, WCAG 2.0 A, WCAG 2.0 AA, WCAG 2.0 AAA, or EN 301 549), conformance level (e.g., supports, supports with exceptions, does not support, not applicable, not evaluated), and depth of explanation. The University of Cincinnati requires all EIT to be evaluated using the WCAG 2.0 AA standard. When purchasing a product, it is important to keep this standard in mind when evaluating a vendor supplied VPAT to maintain consistency. If you need assistance with interpreting your VPAT, feel free to ask a team member from the Accessibility Network. What do I do first? It all starts with a conversation with your software vendor. Don't be afraid to ask your vendor about their position on accessibility. Great questions to get started are: Do you have a current VPAT for this EIT? By what standard are you assessing your EIT? Do you know of any components of your EIT that are not currently accessible? If yes, is there a plan to improve them and when? Can we contact a member of your team who handles accessibility to answer questions about your EIT and VPAT? Are you willing to assert accessibility as a functional component of your EIT in your terms of service with us? You can always find help from an accessibility expert in the Accessibility Network. Please submit a service request ticket online if you wish to have materials reviewed. How do I ask for a VPAT? When selecting your EIT product or working with your technology vendor, ask them about their accessibility commitment. You can use the following sample email to get started. Dear Vendor: As we assess your technology as a solution for the university, we would like to understand your commitment to accessibility. Please provide a copy of your VPAT or ACR (Accessibility Conformance Report) to be submitted to our Accessibility Network for review. Be sure to include the contact information of the person responsible for accessibility within your organization. If you don’t currently have a VPAT or ACR, you can download a blank template. Instructions on how to complete the VPAT are included in the download. The University of Cincinnati is committed to providing an electronic experience that is accessible to all and supports success for every student and employee, especially those with disabilities. The university does this in accordance with Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. The law (29 U.S.C § 794 (d)) applies to all Federal agencies when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information technology. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top