Skip navigation Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Brown Grad School About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Graduate School Academics & Research Research Graduate School Skip to Navigation Research With research, we 'add to a story, building it piece by piece,' says Jessica Chery, pictured with Marcela Soruco, left, and Assistant Professor Erica Larschan, right. 'We do a lot of thinking and rethinking, hoping the hypothesis will guide us.'Research at Brown reflects the innovative and interdisciplinary character of the University. Our researchers are making front-page news, redefining fields and turning Brown research into solutions for real-world problems. Students who conduct research at Brown find an open and encouraging environment that welcomes creative and entrepreneurial thinking. The Open Graduate Education program provides a way to formalize interdisciplinary research interests of the select doctoral candidates, as they pursue a secondary master's degree. Brown students have extraordinary resources through the Brown University Library and BorrowDirect, an interlibrary borrowing service offered by the university libraries of Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, MIT, Princeton, University of Pennsylvania, University of Chicago, and Yale. This Library guide for graduate students and Library research help page are good starting points for new students. The Graduate School provides research travel support through Doctoral Research Travel Grants and Joukowsky Summer Research Awards. In addition, graduate students can seek funds from Brown's Global Mobility Research Fellowships. The Office of the Vice President for Research advances the research enterprise at Brown, providing research administration services, including funding opportunities, training, and compliance, as well as licensing and commercialization assistance. Rules on Ethics Training In response to the National Science Foundation (NSF) requirement for the responsible conduct of research, the University requires training for undergraduate students, graduate students and postdoctoral researchers supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF). Centers Libraries Research Travel Grant Opportunities Home About the Graduate School Healthy Brown FAQs for Graduate Students Academics & Research Ph.D. Requirements Master's Requirements Fields of Study Post-Baccalaureate Research Education Program (PREP) Fifth-Year Master's Degree Concurrent Bachelor's/Master's Degrees Distinctive Opportunities Graduate Advising and Mentoring Rules & Regulations Course Registration Research Professional Development Training Opportunities, Events & Tools Partnerships & Exchanges Living & Resources Financing & Support Admitted Students & Orientation Application Information For Graduate Students For Faculty and Staff Brown University Brown University Graduate School Box 1867 Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-2600 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Resources Graduate School Handbook Academic Code CareerLAB Brown University Writing Center Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender Sheridan Center for Teaching & Learning Top Destinations Admission Inquiry Form Commencement Five-Year Ph.D. Support Open Graduate Education External Funding Application Process International Applicants