Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Virtual Tour Have you ever imagined what it would be like to jump out of an airplane, stand on the field during a Falcon football game or walk through the iconic Cadet Chapel? Explore the U.S. Air Force Academy like never before by launching our new interactive, 360-degree virtual tour. The tours of our historic campus and state-of-the-art academic and athletic facilities can be experienced using smartphones, computers or virtual reality (VR) headsets. To get started, select the specific tour or locations below or simply click the “Launch Virtual Tour” button. Once the tour has launched, you can click the arrows to walk around or jump to the next stop by clicking the “Next” button. Now, if you already know where you want to go, you can select any location by using the menu. And for the best experience, make sure to click the supplemental pictures, videos and icons at each location to bring the interactive elements to life. Launch Virtual Tour Campus Tour North Gate Visitor Center Cadet Chapel Polaris Hall Arnold Hall Planetarium The Terrazzo Vandenberg Hall McDermott Library Fairchild Hall Mitchell Hall Sijan Hall Academy Airfield Preparatory School Jacks Valley Athletics Tour Athletic Overlook Cadet Gym Human Performance Lab Boxing Gym Cadet Field House Cadet Ice Arena Clune Arena Natatorium Indoor Rifle Range Falcon Stadium Falcon Athletic Center Holaday Athletic Center Academics Tour RPA Operation Center Aeronautics Lab Subsonic Wind Tunnel Water Tunnel Observatory Air Warfare Lab Cadet Battle Lab CyberWorx CyberCity Chemistry Lab Mechanics Lab Falcon Center ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.