COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Alert Shocker Career Accelerator First Destination Survey Congratulations on graduating, class of 2022! We want to hear about your next steps - fill out the First Destination Survey here! Hire a Shocker Section Menu Home About the Shocker Career Accelerator Applied Learning at Wichita State Applied Learning Highlight Videos Buzzfile Career Closet Career Data Career Management Career Pathways Career Stories DACA & Undocumented Student Resources Diversity & Inclusion Career Resources Events Faculty & Staff Grad School Guide Handshake Head Shocks Hero Cards Hire-a-Shocker International Students Kansas Micro-Internships LinkedIn Learning Mentor Programs On-Campus Jobs Online Resources Request a Speaker Soon to be Shockers Staff Directory Career Fairs Digital Engineering Expo Invite Registration Closed Digital Engineering Expo - Registration has Expired First-Year Experience On-Campus Jobs Student Employment What can the Shocker Career Accelerator do for you? Choose which level of collaboration is suitable for your talent acquisition needs. Are you hiring? Wichita State University and WSU Tech can help! The Shocker Career Accelerator is your gateway to a talented pool of exceptional Shockers from GED to Ph.D. They possess the education, skills, and professional experience you need to take your organization into the future. Post a job today! In addition, check out our annual career fairs to recruit students and build your brand on campus. Employers also host a variety of events, both in-person and virtual. Contact us at SCA@wichita.edu or (316) WSU-HIRE to learn more. Offer Applied Learning Opportunities The students you employ share information about their experience with other students, which can build your brand recognition and increase your applicant pool. It also provides our students invaluable experience to earn while they learn. Developing a Co-op/Internship Identify a need in your organization Designate internship supervisors Assess hours needed to do the work Determine intern compensation Arrange a work space for interns Develop the internship description Promote the opportunity through wichitastate.joinhandshake.com Best Practices Assign work that is significant to your organization Select supervisors skilled in training and evaluation Outline learning objectives and goals Conduct orientation for interns and supervisors Provide training, on-going education and support Complete evaluation that will be emailed to you at the end of each semester. Academic or Zero Credit Wichita State co-op and internship students are required to enroll in Academic Credit or Zero Credit. Kansas Micro-Internships The Shocker Career Accelerator is excited to partner with Parker Dewey for Micro-Internships. Kansas schools have partnered with Parker Dewey to provide short-term, project-based work experiences for students. The students assigned are not your employees or contractors and can work remotely. Post your opportunity today! Hire International Students Enrollment at Wichita State University includes more than 1,500 students from 100 countries who are studying in the U.S. on a student or exchange visitor visa. These talented students meet the same academic enrollment standards as U.S. students. Many already hold degrees from institutions in their home countries and may have professional experience which can benefit your organization. Advantages International students can work in their field of study during academic sessions and summer/winter breaks. In addition, they may work for a short term (12-36 months) after completion of a degree without the need to change their immigration status. Highly-qualified international students bring your organization the following advantages: new paradigms of thinking dedication and loyalty strong work ethic cultural and ethnic diversity adaptability and perseverance language skills Employer Recruitment Principles The Wichita State University Shocker Career Accelerator is committed to working in the best interest of our students and employers. To assist you, we’ve established principles to ensure a professional, fair and ethical recruiting experience. By following these principles, your organization helps WSU create an equitable and successful recruiting program. Employers who post career opportunities, attend career fairs, host information sessions or give presentations at WSU must adhere to Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) guidelines, the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principles for Employment Professionals (see more at naceweb.org/principles) and the University’s own principles. Cooperative Education and Internship Enrollment Policy and Exceptions Your collaboration with Wichita State University’s Shocker Career Accelerator for recruitment purposes means that you are required to report the names of any WSU student(s) hired for cooperative education and/or internship opportunities at your organization. We also expect that you will require students to enroll with our office should they accept a cooperative education or internship offer with your organization. Wichita State University expects that you will treat WSU co-op students and interns with the same respect as any full-time employee within your employment organization. You are required to follow and abide by all State and Federal employment laws. Failure to do so may result in the WSU Shocker Career Accelerator refusing to work with your employment organization. Extending Offers: On-Campus Recruiting Employment professionals will refrain from any practice that improperly influences or affects acceptances, including applying unreasonable time pressure to accept an offer or encouraging the rejection of another offer. Employers will strive to communicate decisions to candidates within their agreed time frame. Nondiscrimination Wichita State University does not discriminate in its employment practices, educational programs or activities on the basis of age (40 years or older), ancestry, color, disability, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, national origin, political affiliation, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or status as a veteran. Retaliation against an individual filing or cooperating in a complaint process is also prohibited. Sexual misconduct, relationship violence and stalking are forms of sex discrimination and are prohibited under Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. Complaints or concerns related to alleged discrimination may be directed to the Director of Equal Opportunity or the Title IX Coordinator, Wichita State University, 1845 Fairmount, Wichita, KS 67260, telephone 316-978-3187. (April 2019) Alcohol Alcohol may not take any part in the recruitment process — on or off campus. All events, including receptions, dinners, company tours and information sessions, must be alcohol-free. Confidentiality Employment professionals must maintain the confidentiality of all student information. There should be no disclosure of student information without the student’s prior written consent, unless necessitated by health or safety considerations. Assessment Tools and Tests Those who administer, evaluate and interpret assessment tools, tests and technology should be qualified to do so. Employment professionals must inform potential recruits, in a timely fashion, of the type and purpose of any test, as well as who will receive the results. All tests should be reviewed for disparate impact, career relatedness and compliance with fair employment practices. Third-party Recruiter If you are a third-party recruiter, you must disclose your client’s name in the job description box on Handshake. All job posting requests made without the client’s name will receive an email requesting that information. If an update to the job posting is not made within 48 hours, it will be deleted. Third-party recruiters are eligible to participate in our career fair ONLY IF they are recruiting for their own respective organization OR they explicitly state their client’s name when they register and during the fair. The WSU Shocker Career Accelerator reserves the right to deny access to any third-party employer. Temporary Agencies Temporary agencies/staffing services are employers, not third-party recruiters, and are expected to comply with the professional conduct principles set forth for employer professionals. Cancellation Cancellation of an interview session, info session, or info table should be done as early as possible. Also see individual cancellation policies for specific events. Contact us today! (316) WSU-HIRE SCA@wichita.edu 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©