Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Student Center Home Facilities Academy of Medicine Reservable Spaces Exhibition Hall Dining & Retail Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions The Pavilion Student Center Reservable Spaces Student Center Map West Village Dining Maps Reservable Spaces Parking and Directions Activities SCPC Meet the SCPC Board Paper and Clay Tech Rec Event Services Plan an Event Reservable Spaces Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Rates Academy of Medicine Exhibition Hall Student Center West Village Catering Advertise With Us Postal Services Our Team Meet Professional Team Professional Opportunities Student Opportunities Campus Jobs Post a Job Campus Center Reserve a Room Tickets Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Facilities The Historic Academy of Medicine The Historic Academy of Medicine at Georgia Tech stands on the corner of 7th Street and West Peachtree Street. An elegant reminder of Atlanta’s past, the Historic Academy of Medicine at Georgia Tech is one of the City’s premier venues. Our spaces can be modified to help you meet your events goals, from our interior spaces to exclusive use of our courtyards. The Academy offers an unparalleled opportunity to host functions and events from student-focused and corporate conferences to social gatherings, symposia and more in one of the most beautiful and historic settings in the South. We Support Events of All Varieties Campus Events From luncheons, departmental gatherings to keynote lectures, and other special events the Academy extends an indoor/outdoor flexibility for the Tech community. Let’s not overlook efficient transit access to our venue facility. Greek Formals | Career Forums | Office Gatherings | Retirement Celebrations | Awards Banquets | Keynote Lectures | Airport Interviews | Film Screenings Conferences & Corporate Events Whether it’s down to business or an after-hours affair, look no further than the Historic Academy of Medicine. Our 230-seat theater is complimented by 6 breakout spaces, state of the art audio visual equipment, perfect for any occasion, large or small. Symposia | Multi-day Conferences | Networking Events | Holiday Gatherings | Luncheons | Trainings | Keynote Lectures | Airport Interviews Special Events Choosing to host any or all aspects of your most cherished milestones at the Historic Academy of Medicine is a choice you’ll be glad you made! Our team partners with you to help bring your event to life from our elegant ceremony space, versatile floor plans, and private planner's suite are just the beginning of what makes this space special. Graduation Celebrations | Weddings | Retirement Dinners | Baby Showers | Memorials | Bar and Bat Mitzvahs | Quinceañera Film Production & Photography You may have seen our building before and not known it. Film scouts know there is great opportunity to manipulate the Historic Academy of Medicine as an ideal location for historical, contemporary and even creative settings. Seen in: Selma | The Accountant | Zombieland 2 | MacGyver (2016) | Diary of a Wimpy Kid | Manifest | Front Runner | First Man | Ozark Snapshots of Past Client Experiences Gallery: The Historic Academy of Medicine Located at the edge of Georgia Tech's campus The Historic Academy of Medicine is one of the most elegant spaces on campus, standing in the heart of bustling midtown. A Buzzworthy Place for Events The Academy of Medicine boasts historical significance and modern elegance that makes it an ideal backdrop for Atlanta’s premier events. Rotunda The Rotunda is an extremely versatile space, featuring stunning marble floors that make for the perfect backdrop for any occasion. Rotunda Chandelier Gorgeous chandelier looms over the gorgeous Rotunda! Theater With more than 200 stadium-style seats, the Theater gives each guest an ideal view for performances, weddings, and presentations. Theater Crystal Dining Room Crystal Dining Room (Detail) Library . Library (Detail) Parlor The Parlor is a relaxing yet versatile space that can be used for wedding preparation, cozy discussions, and cocktail hours. This space is frequently paired with larger event spaces to offer spaces for preparations or smaller accompanying activities. Exterior Porch (Upper Level) Cottonwood Room (Lower Level) The Academy features rooms in a variety of sizes and setups. Each room can accommodate large-scale events or presentations as well as more close-knit gatherings or breakout sessions. Lower Level Courtyard The Historic Academy of Medicine at Night Our Historic Building is Elegant & Flexible This historically renovated building's neoclassical architecture boasts beautiful composition and southern charm. Guests find delight in the rich details that surround their events: the Doric columns of the entry portico, the black and white Italian marble floors of the rotunda, the illumination by the famous Czechoslovakian chandelier seen in "Gone With The Wind", and more throughout the historic space. Upper Level Explore the Upper Level The beauty of the upper level lies in the architectural details found throughout the space, the abundant natural light that shines through the domed ceiling and the classically designed furniture in each of the rooms. Rotunda | Theater | Crystal Dining Room | Library | Parlor | Front Lawn Explore the Upper Level Lower Level Explore the Lower Level The Terrace Level is a practical and flexible space that can work well for a variety of events. The entrance to the Terrace is a charming space with a black and white Italian marble floor and a decorative chandelier. Magnolia | Sugarberry | Cottonwood | Bridal Suite | Courtyard Explore the Lower Level History The Historic Academy of Medicine, built in 1941, was host to the city’s oldest medical society, the Medical Association of Atlanta. The Building’s grandeur represented the prominence of the medical profession in the city, as well as the society’s determination to provide the finest medical training and education in the growing healthcare community. In 2008 the Historic Academy of Medicine was gifted to the Georgia Tech Foundation by the Atlanta Medical Heritage Inc. for the Institute's use. The building started a 6 million dollar, 18 month renovation in 2010 and celebrated its 70th anniversary with a grand re-opening on December 11th, 2011. Facebook Twitter Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Campus Services Departments Campus Services Bookstore - Barnes & Noble @ Georgia Tech BuzzCard Center Dining Services Health Services Housing Information Technology Group Parking & Transportation Services Student Center 350 Ferst Drive NW Atlanta, GA 30332-0458 Information Desk: (404) 385-4275 Student Center Office: (404) 894-2805 Fax: (404) 894-3888 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login