COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW President's Office Staff Section Menu Office of the President Dr. Richard Muma bio Presidential Inauguration Presidential Priorities University Leadership President's Staff Task Forces Organizational Chart First Gentleman Rick Case Newsletters and Podcast Share Your Thoughts President's Staff Chris Cavanaugh Director of Internal Audit chris.cavanaugh@wichita.edu (316) 978-5823 Zach Gearhart Chief of Staff zachary.gearhart@wichita.edu (316) 978-3001 Susan Johnson Executive Assistant For The President susan.johnson@wichita.edu (316) 978-3001 Andrew Schlapp Executive Director, Government Relations and Strategy, Executive Director to the Board of Trustees andy.schlapp@wichita.edu (316) 978-3001 Mike Irvin Interim Director of Institutional Equity and Compliance michael.irvin@wichita.edu (316) 978-3186 University Leadership Student Office Associates Danielle Bittner Office Associate 203 Morrison Hall 316-978-3001 presidentsoffice@wichita.edu Class Year: Sophomore Major: Business Management About Me: I was born and raised in Rossville, KS, a very rural community where everyone knows everyone. I was drawn to Wichita State's beautiful and inviting campus, and although it is much larger than I am used to, it still feels like home. I am pursuing a Bachelor's degree in Business Management and an Associates in Psychology. My hobbies include farming, woodworking, and photography. I love Wichita State and am very thankful for all of the opportunities it has given me. Jessica Allen Office Associate 203 Morrison Hall 316-978-3001 presidentsoffice@wichita.edu Class Year: Graduate Student Program: Masters of Education - Clinical Mental Health Counseling About Me: I moved to Wichita from Orlando, Florida in August of 2020. I chose to obtain a degree in Clinical Mental Health Counseling because I want to work with children. I have a background working with middle school students, and I have noticed that at this stage life can be very confusing. This has inspired my want to use my degree towards helping middle school students better understand life and cope with changes they may be going through. Alejandro Clavier Office Associate 203 Morrison Hall 316-978-3001 presidentsoffice@wichita.edu Class Year: Freshman Major: Collaborative Media (Filmmaking and Game Design) About Me: I was born and raised in Venezuela. When I was 12 years old, I moved to Houston, Texas in search of a better future due to the degrading conditions in my country. I was sad as I left all of my family and friends behind, but watching films always cheered me up because of the stories and inspirations they gave me. One day, I hope to do the same for anybody that finds themselves in a dark time and who may be in need of some motivation like I once was. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©