Skip To Top Navigation Skip To Main Content Skip To Footer search Loading... Careers Ask-HR Current Employees Search Menu Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook Careers AskHR Current Employees HR Self Service Kronos Login COVID-19 Resources Employee Assistance Program Benefits and Well-being Tigers at Work Payroll Training and Development Performance Management Staff and Faculty Relations Transition and Separation International Employment Talent Acquisition Employment Verification HR Resource Library HR Policies and Procedures HR Service Teams Clemson Main Site Index Events Calendar Campus Map CU Safety Phonebook International Employment Learn more Scroll Welcome! The United States Code of Federal Regulations governs the employment of international individuals in the USA. The Office of Human Resources is responsible for compliance and the employment eligibility verification of all international individuals who are offered employment with the University. Frequently Asked Questions Remember, international employees cannot work until they have satisfied each step in the informational links for their visa type below. To prevent wait times and unneeded steps for Clemson University’s international employees, the Office of Human Resources recommends that each international employee review the specific visa type that applies and print the instructional information provided below. Simply click the button for your visa type to print the step-by-step process for how to gain work authorization, how to attain a social security number, and all the required documentation. Hiring Process International Information Additional Resources International Contact International Employee Hiring Process Congratulations on your job offer from Clemson University! Now, it is time for you to start a process that the University calls the international hire process, which is a process the University uses to verify your employment eligibility and to complete your hire. Hiring Instructions Tax Information Non-Resident Alien Payments Individuals or group payments to be made by a department either directly to or on behalf of non-resident alien individuals or group are subject to special tax withholding and reporting regulations. To satisfy withholding and reporting requirements, the proper tax forms must be completed prior to any disbursement of funds. Examples of such payments include (but are not limited to) speaker fees, consultant fees, honoraria, awards, artist fees, performer fees, royalties, certain types of participant support costs, personal living expenses, travel expenses, etc. While in the planning stage and prior to issuing payment, contact the Director of Foreign National Employment and Non-Resident Alien Taxation. Office of Human Resources Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Phone: 864.656.5591 U.S. Source Scholarships Special rules apply for U.S. source scholarships, fellowships, and athletic grants in aid credited to non-resident alien student accounts through the Office of Student Financial Aid. A non-resident alien foreign national student who receives such financial aid is required to complete scholarship information and tax forms with the Director of Foreign National Employment and Non-Resident Alien Taxation, the Office of Human Resources, Administrative Services Building, 108 Perimeter Road, (864) 656-5589. The student needs to bring the following original documents: Foreign passport I-94 Arrival/Departure card Form I-20 ( F-1 visa) Form DS-2019 (J-1 visa) Signed, U.S. Social Security card or U.S. individual tax identification number card. Tax Resources All IRS Forms IRS Foreign Students & Scholars Tax Info IRS International Services Foreign Consular Offices in the U.S. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services U.S. Department of State S.C. Dep. of Revenue S.C. Individual Tax Return Forms Taxpayer Assistance Outside the U.S. Additional Resources International Student Summer Employment Guidelines International Info Form International Student Work Calendar U.S. Source Scholarships Non-Resident Alien Payments Office of Global Engagement Contact Us Office of Human Resources Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Phone: 864.656.2000 Email: intlemployment@clemson.edu Anderson Social Security Office H1B application contact Office of Global Engagement Room E307 Martin Hall Phone: 864.656.0490 Email: is@clemson.edu CLEMSON HR Administrative Services Building 108 Perimeter Road Clemson, SC 29634-5337 864.656.2000 RESOURCES Careers Benefits Forms Training Security and Safety Report Quick Links Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Contact HR Clemson, SC Ask-HR Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Copyright © Clemson University. All rights reserved. Clemson University is an AA/EEO employer. Scroll To Top