Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Northern California Home Connect Chapters California Northern California California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego The Northern California Chapter consists of almost 6,000 alumni, parents, and friends in the Bay Area. Signature events include service projects, game watches, networking, Always an Eagle and more. If you have any ideas you'd like to share for specific events or if you'd like to become more involved in the chapter, please reach out to us! 5,939 Alumni Parents & Friends Social Leaders Contact Us Events Follow Us Northern California Chapter Facebook Page Meet Your Chapter Leaders Joe Bauer ’18 Lives in: San Francisco, California Major: Marketing, Information Systems Occupation: Product Marketing Favorite BC Memory: My favorite BC memories bookended my four years. We rushed the field freshman year after beating #9 USC, and we stormed the court senior year after beating #1 Duke. Why did you get involved?: When I moved to San Francisco after graduation, I didn't know anyone in the area. Attending the NorCal alumni events was a great way to meet friends and explore the broader Bay Area. I wanted to get involved with the NorCal chapter to give back to a community that has given me so much in my short time in SF. What are your local favorites in your city?: Watching BC football games at Shanghai Kelly's and golfing at the Presidio. Fun Fact: After graduation, my friend and I hiked about 300 miles across Spain on the Camino de Santiago. John Morrison ’14 Lives in: The Richmond District, San Francisco, California Major: Economics/Theology Occupation: Business Development and Partnerships at Affirm Favorite BC Memory: Walking the halls of Gasson and Devlin Halls late at night after finishing a painting in the Art Studios. I took several studio art classes, and this was a beautiful, simple pleasure. Why did you get involved?: I have fond memories of Boston College. Many fellow Eagles have come from—or have made it out to—the Bay Area in the past few decades, and I'd like to give back to those who've come to my hometown and have an affiliation to an institution that gave a lot to me. What are your local favorites in your city?: Before moving to a role in tech, I worked as a waiter at several SF- and NYC-based restaurants. Some of my favorite classic spots in SF are Tadich Grill, Swan's Oyster Depot, NOPA, and more recently Pearl 6101 out in The Richmond. Fun Fact: I am a competitive Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Practitioner. Chapter Volunteers Nick Deming '07 Jason Buttorf ’04 Ben Li ’19 Jenny Liang ’20 Kristen Marren ’17 Sean Herman '07 Mohammed Punjwani ’19 Sam Wan MA’00, PhD’07 Alumni Staff Liaison Name: Taylor Mooney '17 Contact: taylor.mooney@bc.edu Events ENGAGE WITH US ON EAGLE EXCHANGE! STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversations between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Search by location to connect with local Eagles! Join Today Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok