Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links FVP Menu Main Nav FVP Back Back Close About Departments Overview Associate Treasurer Endowment Risk Management Budget Controller Internal Audit Procurement Services Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Endowment Home Departments Associate Treasurer Endowment The Boston College endowment exists to support the goals and operations of the University over the long term so that current and future students, faculty and staff benefit from investments. The endowment provides a permanent source of funding for such purposes as financial aid, faculty chairs, scholarly research and writing, student formation and campus maintenance. Investment and Endowment Committee Investment Objective and Spending Policy Manager Review and Selection Historical Endowment Growth Asset Allocation Investment and Endowment Committee The Investment and Endowment Committee of the Board of Trustees has fiduciary responsibility for overall investment policy, asset allocation, and the selection of professional investment managers. The University’s Chief Investment Officer and staff provide professional support to the Committee. Investment Objective and Spending Policy The long-term performance objective of the endowment portfolio is to attain an average annual total return that exceeds the University’s spending rate plus inflation within acceptable levels of risk over a full market cycle. The University has a spending policy for its donor restricted endowment, as approved by the University’s Board of Trustees, that aims to provide a stable and predictable source of funding for the University’s academic and other strategic initiatives and also to protect the real value of the endowment over time. Under this policy the amount that can be expended for current operations is a weighted average based on two components: prior year spending adjusted for an inflationary factor, and 5% of a twelve quarter moving average of market values. Manager Review and Selection The Committee seeks to identify best-in-class professional investment managers from around the world. It particularly reviews asset allocations, performance of managers and alignment of investments with institutional mission and priorities. The Committee evaluates investment managers on an ongoing basis using a variety of quantitative and qualitative measures. Areas of Focus Investment philosophy & process Risk adjusted performance relative to benchmarks/peers Organizational structure Code of professional conduct Use of financial leverage Liquidity terms, fees and other contract provisions Operational risk control measures Audited financial statements in accordance with GAAP Historical Endowment Growth Endowment growth includes investment performance, cash gifts and pledges, net of support for operations. The Endowment has increased by nearly $2 billion over the past 10 years. Boston College Endowment Market Value (In Millions) Asset Allocation As of May 31, 2021. Boston College Endowment Asset Allocation (Percentage) Staff Mark Kheyfetz Investment Officer mark.kheyfetz@bc.edu Robert J. Kmetzo Investment Officer robert.kmetzo@bc.edu David J. Martens Director of Investments david.martens@bc.edu Eric M. Sears Senior Investment Officer eric.sears@bc.edu John J. Zona Chief Investment Officer & Associate Treasurer john.zona@bc.edu Directions Back To Top Back To Top Office of the Financial Vice President & Treasurer 129 Lake St., Suite 540 Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 617-552-4191 About Departments Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College