Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Coverage While Traveling Coverage While Traveling Students have a number of available benefits when traveling, whether for registered University travel or personal travel. Please explore the options below to learn about support when traveling. Expand all Collapse all Personal Travel Aetna Student Health offers a number of benefits available to students when they are traveling for non-University purposes.  Within the United States If your travel is within the United States, please use the Aetna DocFind feature to identify an in-network provider. If you are traveling within 50 miles of campus, be sure to request a referral from Medical Services or Counseling & Psychological Services prior to making an appointment. If you are traveling more than 50 miles from campus, no referral is required. Outside the United States Aetna Student Health, through On-Call International, provides medical assistance services when traveling in a foreign country.  As Aetna Student Health does not maintain a network of providers outside the United States, students can select a provider of their choice in the country they are in and submit expenses for reimbursement to Aetna Student Health. Reimbursement When accessing services outside the United States, students will need to: pay out-of-pocket for services, and then submit receipts along with an itemized bill to Aetna Student Health for reimbursement. Reimbursement for medically necessary care is covered at the in-network rate. For routine care while traveling (e.g. standard medical provider office visit), reimbursement from Aetna does not require prior approval or coordination. Some services (e.g. medical evacuation, repatriation, etc.) are covered only when coordinated and arranged through On-Call/Aetna Student Health.  Available Travel Assistance Benefits through On-Call: Emergency Medical Evacuation Medical Repatriation Transportation to Join a Hospitalized Member Return of Minor Children Repatriation of Mortal Remains Accidental Death or Dismemberment No other On-Call benefits are available to plans in New York. To discuss coverage or inquire about benefits, please contact On-Call: In the US: 866-525-1956 Outside the US: +1-603-328-1951 (collect calls accepted) University Travel Supporting the University mission often requires students to travel outside of the United States. Whether it be for research, conference presentation, study abroad, or other purposes, those participating in Columbia Travel have a support system at the University to provide the tools needed for diligent pre-trip planning and assistance in the event of an emergency abroad – including medical insurance for emergent illness and injury while abroad. Students participating in Columbia Travel must follow the pre-departure requirements described in the International Travel Planning Policy. These requirements can include, but are not limited to, trip registry and a pre-trip itinerary review. Please visit the Student section of the Columbia Global Travel website to register your trip, explore benefits, and more. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close