Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Registrar Welcome to Degree Works University Founder Thomas Green Clemson University Founder Thomas Green Clemson What is Degree Works? Degree Works is a web-based tool designed to help undergraduates and their advisors monitor progress toward completing a bachelor’s degree. Degree Works uses degree requirements from the University Catalog and re-organizes the student’s transcript categorically to produce an easy-to-read audit. The audit is divided into blocks to show all of the necessary requirements and how courses taken or in-progress count toward those requirements. Each block contains checkboxes to easily identify what courses and requirements are complete, almost complete, or still outstanding. What are the Benefits of Degree Works? Degree Works is intended to support and enhance Clemson University’s commitment to academic advising. Students and advisors are able to: View detailed requirements for the degree, major, and minor See how completed, in-progress, and approved transfer/AP course work applies to degree requirements Identify courses needed to complete specific degree requirements View cumulative GPA Plan course selection for future semesters using the Look Ahead feature Generate What-If audits to view hypothetical major and/or minor changes based on current and projected course work Degree Works can be used as part of advising sessions to determine course selections (in conjunction with the Course Offerings for the term) and review graduation requirements Where can I find my Degree Works audit? You can find a link to Degree Works through iROAR > Student Self-Service > Degree Works What doesn't Degree Works do? Degree Works helps in making sense of degree requirements, but it is not intended to replace advisor/student sessions. It does not represent an irrevocable contract with Clemson University. It cannot serve as an official transcript, nor does it certify degree completion. Every effort is taken to provide complete and accurate information, but due to the multiple curriculum options available, it cannot support each and every scenario. Always consult with an advisor and/or academic administrators regarding university practices, policies and curriculum requirements. Who do I contact about general questions or issues? If you have questions about Degree Works or your audit you can check the Degree Works FAQ. More detailed, printable documents are available in the Training Material Repository. If your question is not answered by the FAQ or training materials you can reach us by submitting a question: 〉 Advisor or Staff 〉 Undergraduate Student Home Academic Calendars Academic Catalogs Graduation U.S. Veterans Students Registration Student Records Transferring Credits Admittance Examinations Degree Works Training Materials Faculty and Staff Reg Coordinators Forms FAQ Contact Us Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram