Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Higher Education MEd You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Higher Education MEd Apply Visit Request More Info Higher Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Higher Education MEd Temple University’s Master of Education in Higher Education builds a strong foundation of skill and understanding of relevant areas, including access to postsecondary education, changes necessary to meet state and federal college completion goals, equity in student higher education outcomes, and urban educational issues. Gain a broad knowledge of higher education in a diverse learning environment, and develop the expertise necessary to become a leader in the field. The Higher Education MEd is presented in a hybrid format, offering both online and in-person courses. Face-to-face class meetings are held during the evening at Temple University's Main Campus. The master’s degree is designed to accommodate schedules of busy working professionals. Related Graduate Degrees Advocacy and Organizational Development MEd Higher Education EdD Policy and Organizational Studies PhD with a concentration in Higher Education Related Graduate Certificates College Access and Success Leadership in Instructional Technology for Higher Education Diversity Leadership Institutional Effectiveness Student Affairs Leadership Teaching in Higher Education Teaching in Higher Education for the Creative Disciplines Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Education offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Student Clubs & Organizations Find peer support and leadership opportunities while tackling the challenges of your program by joining organizations such as the ones below. The Graduate Student Organization of the College of Education and Human Development runs community-based events like school supply drives as well as professional development workshops and activities. The organization upholds a strong commitment to social justice, regularly organizing political events and engaging in projects with community partners. The Temple University Graduate Students Association, a student employee union, maintains positive working lives and conditions for graduate student assistants. Program Contact Joseph Paris, assistant professor of instruction, is the faculty program contact for the Higher Education MEd. Phone: 215-204-2810 Email: joseph.paris@temple.edu Our Advisors Advisors will guide you in navigating the curriculum and selecting the appropriate coursework to achieve your academic and professional goals. A graduate academic advisor will also be available to help you with scheduling, policies and procedures to assure your smooth passage through the program. Questions For more information about this program, the College of Education and Human Development, how to apply for admission, and your application status, contact Enrollment Management. Enrollment Management Ritter Annex 150 1301 Cecil B. Moore Ave. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Phone: 215-204-8011 Email: educate@temple.edu ED-HIED-MED Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Higher Education MEd Admissions Information Careers & Opportunities Our Faculty Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info