Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Upward Bound Program Programs Eligibility Returning Students News Staff UB Online Workshops Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact What Is Upward Bound? Learn about our Upward Bound Program. Apply today! Learn about program eligibility and apply today! Projects and Services Learn about the projects and services offered through this program. Academic Year Support Success Coaches meet with students weekly at their high school. PreviousNext Take Action About Apply Online Forms Contact Us Home Upward Bound Program Welcome to Upward Bound! Dear Future Upward Bounder, Welcome to the University of Memphis Upward Bound (UB) program website! We are excited that you are seeking information that will aid in your journey towards post-secondary education. TRIO programs are federally funded grant programs offered through the U.S. Department of Education as a result of the Higher Education Act of 1965. Seven TRIO Programs (Upward Bound, Upward Bound Math/Science, Veterans Upward Bound Educational, Talent Search, Student Support Services, Educational Opportunity Centers, and Ronald McNair Post-Baccalaureate) that serve students. Each program has the same overall mission: to help underrepresented and underserved students prepare, enroll, and graduate from institutions of post-secondary education. UB offers students a variety of services as you will discover on this site, to help you prepare for, enter and complete college. We hope that you will strongly consider applying to Upward Bound and allow us the opportunity to assist you in achieving: better grades, college admissions, financial aid, and an overall better future. Sincerely, Ophrah Payne Coordinator of Upward Bound upwardbound@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/20/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.