COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Dr. Andrew Hippisley, Ph.D. Section Menu Leadership Dr. Andrew Hippisley, Ph.D. Dean Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (316) 978-6659 andrew.hippisley@wichita.edu Curriculum Vitae High-Resolution Photo Twitter Overview Andrew Hippisley’s background is in Russian Language and Literature where he has a BA (hons) and MA from the University of London. His PhD is in computational linguistics from the University of Surrey where he taught in the Department of Computing. He moved to the University of Kentucky in 2007 where he served as inaugural Chair of the Department of Linguistics and the University Senate President. He has published extensively in linguistics where he has five books and multiple articles. He was made a Fellow of the Linguistic Society of America in 2018. Hippisley was selected as an American Council on Education Fellow in 2016, the nation’s marquee leadership program for rising academic administrators. In July 2018 he began serving as dean of Wichita State’s Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences where he oversees some twenty departments and schools. He is a strong advocate of the power of a liberal arts and sciences education, and believes passionately in creating opportunity for all for life-long learning. One of his goals is to expand experiential learning for liberal arts students, through internships, undergraduate research and study abroad. Connect with Dean Hippisley: Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Google Scholar Information Academic Interests and Expertise Linguistics Areas of Teaching Interest Linguistics Publications Morphological Perspectives. (2019). Edinburgh University Press. (with Matthew Baerman and Oliver Bond.) isbn 9781474446006 Defaults in Morphological Theory. (2017). Oxford University Press. (with Nikolas Gisborne.) isbn 9780198712329 The Cambridge Handbook of Morphology. (2016). Cambridge University Press. (with Gregory Stump.) isbn 9781107038271 Network Morphology: a Defaults-Based Theory of Word Structure. (2012). Cambridge University Press. (with Dunstan Brown.) isbn 9781107005747 Deponency and morphological mismatches. (2007). Oxford University Press. (with Matthew Baerman, Greville Corbett and Dunstan Brown.) isbn 0197264107 Professional Experience Dean of the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, Wichita State University; previously chair of the Department of Linguistics, University of Kentucky Awards and Honors Fellow of the Linguistic Society of America; Fellow of the American Council on Education Areas of Service General Co-Editor, Edinburgh Studies in Theoretical Linguistics Other Interests Member of Rotary Club of Wichita 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©