Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Work-Life Integration Overview Child Care Employee Health Services Faculty & Staff Assistance Program Overview Life is complicated. At Princeton, we recognize that and are sensitive and responsive to the challenges our employees face. The University offers a broad array of benefits and services that help our staff in a variety of ways. Photo by Susan Promislo, Office of Communications For example, we offer an Employee Child Care Assistance Program to help eligible faculty and staff parents meet the costs of pre-kindergarten care. At the other end of the age spectrum, the University offers elder care assistance through the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program. Beyond these specialized benefits, our commitment to maintaining a healthy and productive work-life balance is integrated into day-to-day activities. The University regularly offers meditation and yoga classes. Workers form informal walking and jogging groups. Our staff take advantage of the many lectures and panels that are publicly available throughout the year. Child Care Whether you’re a new parent in need of child care, a parent looking for summer camp for your child, or a parent in need of assistance with a mildly ill child, the University has programs to assist you with managing family commitments. Photo by Denise Applewhite, Office of Communications Employee Health Services University Health Services offers a wide range of services to employees, including lab work, physical therapy, wellness programs and screenings, and immunizations for international travel. Faculty & Staff Assistance Program Through the Carebridge Corporation, the University offers confidential assistance 24/7 to faculty, staff and graduate students for work, personal or family issues such as stress and depression, financial difficulties, alcohol and drug abuse, coping with grief and relationship problems with spouses, partners and children. Counseling and referral services are free of charge. Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice