COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Chemistry, Major MajorChemistry All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Chemistry and Biochemistry The Bachelor of Arts (BA) in chemistry from Wichita State combines its quality curriculum with top-notch facilities for student-faculty research. You’ll learn from professors who are active in their fields. And you’ll develop the knowledge and skills needed for success in a wide variety of career settings. Learn how chemistry is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Chemistry professor provides experience opportunities for students Chemistry students at Wichita State University have opportunities to gain experience inside and outside the classroom. Assistant Chemistry Professor Katie Mitchell-Koch is providing valuable opportunities and resources for undergraduate and graduate students helping with her research project. Her project focuses on the movement of solvent molecules around enzymes, the proteins that catalyze chemical reactions. Curriculum Wichita State’s BA degree in chemistry prepares you for a wide variety of entry-level positions. The BA program requires fewer hours of chemistry than the BS, but by taking additional courses, you may earn certification by the American Chemical Society. View the curriculum Careers A bachelor’s degree in chemistry from Wichita State can open doors with employers in many fields—from chemical manufacturing and health care to government work and research. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Chemistry (Minor) Biochemistry Medical Laboratory Sciences Geology Forensic Sciences 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©