Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home Who We Are Financial Information Endowment Information Endowment gifts are provided by donors to generate ongoing support for Iowa State students, faculty, and programs. Each endowed fund is managed and tracked separately within the foundation’s financial system. All individual endowed funds are invested as a combined pool, with each fund owning a pro-rata share of the total value and receiving a pro-rata share of the pool’s overall investment return. The purpose of this model is to grow the principal of each endowed fund and provide protection against inflation while supporting the purpose designated by the donor. Financial and Investment Objectives The primary financial objective is to preserve and enhance the pool's inflation-adjusted purchasing power net of all investment management cost, while providing funds for current spending. The primary long-term investment objective of the pool is to attain an average annual real total return (net of all investment related fees) in excess of total expenditures (spending and overhead expenses), as measured over rolling 10-year periods. Evaluating the Investment Program This pool of assets requires a long-term view and must be managed with this view. Asset allocation plays a critical role in preserving the assets, producing a relatively stable spending stream, and allowing opportunity for growth. These goals must be balanced in setting the asset allocation. Endowment Oversight The foundation’s board of directors has delegated oversight of the endowment to the investment committee, which is made up of donors and alumni of Iowa State with investment and financial experience. The committee’s responsibilities include the development and monitoring of the investment policy and objectives, review and adjustment of the portfolio’s asset allocation, and monitoring of manager and investment performance. Consulting Cambridge Associates LLC provides independent investment consulting services including asset allocation and spending reviews, investment guideline and policy reviews, investment manager searches and recommendations, and performance evaluations. Custody Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. provides master custody services including asset safekeeping, income collection, trade settlement, cash management, market pricing, and both consolidated and separate account reporting. Financial Reports The Iowa State University Foundation’s financial statements are audited annually by an independent, international audit firm in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. The independent auditors report directly to the audit committee of the foundation board. If you have any questions or would like a printed copy of our financial reports, contact Emily Hager at ehager@foundation.iastate.edu. Financial Statements FY 2021 (PDF) FY 2020 (PDF) FY 2019 (PDF) Tax Returns Form 990 (Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax) FY 2021 (PDF) FY 2020 (PDF) FY 2019 (PDF) Note: If you would like a printed copy of the above Form 990 or our Form 990-T (Exempt Organization Business Income Tax Return), please email questions@foundation.iastate.edu to contact the Iowa State University Foundation. Public Information Policy Policy_October_2015 (PDF) Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Careers Iowa State Highlights Private Funds Private funds help fund student scholarships, faculty support, programmatic support, and facility construction and renovations. The total amount of private funds spent annually to benefit Iowa State: FY15 - $81.8 million FY16 - $80.0 million FY17 - $87.2 million FY18 - $83.4 million FY19 - $104.1 million FY20 - $104.5 million Asset Allocation The long-term pool is diversified into several asset classes. See Definitions See Graph Investment Report – Long Term Pool The ISU Foundation’s long-term (endowment) portfolio reported a negative return of 3.9% for the quarter and a positive 4.7% for the first nine months of the fiscal year (as of March 31, 2022). Longer-term returns are 11.6% over five years and 9.2% over ten years. The pool balance at March 31 was $1.4 billion. Financial markets saw the return of volatility and uncertainty during the quarter ended March 31 as global equities declined 5.4% - only the second quarterly decline over the last eight quarters. Almost all asset classes reported negative quarterly returns with commodities and energy being the exception. Oil prices reached their highest level since 2008, as prices per barrel exceeded $100. Fixed income declined as central banks increased interest rates in initial efforts to manage rising inflation. While inflation and other economic concerns contributed to the market declines early in the quarter, the Russian invasion of Ukraine in late February certainly fueled the more recent volatility, causing disruptions to global supply chains, energy supply issues (particularly in Europe), and food shortages (in the Middle East and North Africa) – and most importantly, the direct impact to the Ukrainian people. Additionally, parts of Europe and Asia continue to struggle with COVID-19, even as U.S. cases and infections have declined from the Omicron highs. The foundation’s diversified and global asset allocation and investment strategy is focused on the long-term nature of the endowment. Built to minimize risk (particularly in the short-term) while maximizing return, the strategy certainly served the institution well over the past several years following the onset of the pandemic. See Graph Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top