By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Admitted International Students In this Section Conditional Admission Syracuse in Shanghai Program Moving to the U.S. Information for Admitted International Students Center for International Services The Center for International Services is the official liaison with U.S. immigration offices for all non-immigrants at Syracuse University. The office provides orientation, programming, advice, and counseling on immigration regulations and academic, cultural, and personal matters. You must participate in the Center orientation program upon arrival (in addition to the Syracuse Welcome program for all new students) and comply with all requirements before your SEVIS (Student Exchange Visitor Information System) record will be registered with the Department of Homeland Security. Find additional information and instructions on the First-Year and Transfer Programs Required Tasks webpage . Charges and Payments International students at Syracuse University are generally not eligible for financial aid in the form of housing or meal grants, loans, work opportunities, or merit scholarships. Before the beginning of each semester, you will receive a statement of charges less anticipated financial aid, if applicable, that lists what you must pay for one semester for tuition, housing, meals, health insurance, and mandatory fees. Your statement will also show credit for the $500 advance tuition payment and the $450 advance housing payment. The statement for the fall will be made available via MySlice in June and the middle of November for the spring. Each semester you must pay the balance owed on your bill by the due date listed on the billing statement. Learn more about how to pay your bill and bill payment methods . If you have not made satisfactory payment arrangements with the Bursar’s Office, the University may not let you register or may cancel your pre-registration schedule. Please contact the Bursar’s Office with any questions or concerns via email to bursar@syr.edu or by phone at 315.443.2444. 2021-2022 Estimated Expenses The 2021-2022 estimated expenses are available via the Office of Financial Aid . Estimated expenses for the 2022-2023 academic year will be available in the spring. Attendance at summer sessions is voluntary and requires an additional tuition charge. The usual course load is six credits for each of the two summer sessions. Charges for tuition, housing, meals, and fees will increase annually. The University carefully considers all increases in cost to ensure they are reasonable. It is important for students and families to plan for annual cost increases and be prepared for financial consequences. Syracuse University Prepaid Tuition Plan If you wish to pay four years of undergraduate tuition in advance, you may participate in the Prepaid Tuition Plan. This plan allows you to lock in the rate of tuition in effect at the inception of the plan and avoid future tuition increases. Participation is limited to full-time Main Campus undergraduate students who are not receiving institutional scholarships or grants in excess of $8,000 per academic year. This plan does not cover fees, housing and meal costs, books, and other University charges, which will be billed and payable in accordance with University policies. This agreement covers the fall and spring terms only. Summer study such as Maymester and Summer Sessions I and II, as well as any Winterlude courses, are not included in this plan. If you are interested, it is recommended that you consult your financial planner/tax adviser. For details or a copy of the Syracuse University Prepaid Tuition Plan Agreement, please contact Steven Kelly, Associate Treasurer, at 315.443.3411 or stkelly@syr.edu Monthly Payment Plan Option Many families use the University’s Monthly Payment Plan Option because it allows them to pay their balance over the course of the semester. There is an annual non-refundable application fee of $75 to participate in the Option, which will be calculated into your monthly payments. Students desiring to use the Monthly Payment Plan Option are encouraged to sign up as soon as possible to realize the maximum number of months over which to pay the balance due. A Monthly Payment Plan application must be completed each year. Continued participation in the Monthly Payment Plan Option is contingent upon a satisfactory payment history. Your $500 advance tuition payment and $450 advance housing payment as well as any anticipated financial aid, if applicable, will be credited against the spring charges on your plan. Work-study grants are not credited to your payment plan. To apply, complete the Monthly Payment Plan Option application . Complete the section on financial aid only if you have filed the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE and the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by the deadline. The form must be signed by the person who is financially responsible. Health and Wellness Requirements Explore instructions of how to complete health and wellness requirements including but not limited to the Health History Form, Immunizations Records, Student Health Insurance, Community Wellness Requirements and more on the First-Year and Transfer Programs Required Tasks webpage . Login to the patient portal at suhsportal.syr.edu to submit your health history and upload your immunization/physical form. International students and any dependents are required to have comprehensive health insurance. You may choose to purchase the health insurance plan that the university has selected, or provide proof of enrollment in another health insurance plan that meets the minimum requirements . In addition, all full-time students are charged a mandatory health services fee that is included with billing from the Bursar’s Office. Part-time students are eligible to use Syracuse University Health Services on a fee-for-service basis. The health fee does not cover all expenses. Expenses not covered are pharmacy, laboratory, and X-ray services, emergency room care, referral to specialty service providers, and hospitalization. Syracuse provides student-centered ambulatory healthcare. Learn more about Barnes Center at The Arch Services today. Transfer Records If you have completed previous college coursework, your credits will need to be evaluated. Please ask the registrar or appropriate officer at your current college or university to send two copies of official transcripts/credentials to the recorder in the Syracuse University school or college to which you have been admitted. You will be sent a credit evaluation explaining the number of credits you will receive for courses you have taken at other universities. Official acceptance of credit will not be complete until Syracuse University receives your transcripts. Course descriptions must also be sent. Please note that all course descriptions must be translated into English, or they will not be accepted. New International Student Orientation Spring 2022 International student orientation sessions for the spring 2022 semester will take place in January just prior to Winter Welcome, January 15-16, 2022. Specific dates will be posted soon. Fall 2022 International student orientation sessions for the fall 2022 semester will take place in late August. Dates will be posted soon. Specific dates will be posted soon. During this program you will meet with your academic advisor, take any required placement examinations, including the English Language Assessment Exam (ELAE), and attend opening ceremonies for the University. The orientation schedule for international students differs from the schedule for U.S. nationals due to the mandatory international student pre-orientation programs. Prior to orientation, international students must check-in with the Center and bring the I-20 or DS-2019, I-94, passport with visa, and proof of health insurance. You can check-in prior to your travel to Syracuse, then report to the Center as soon as you arrive in Syracuse to complete the check-in process. If you do not have an assignment in a residence hall, it will be necessary to make hotel reservations in advance of your arrival. Please review new student arrival information about temporary housing on the Center's website . Tobacco-Free Campus To help ensure a healthy, productive, respectful environment, Syracuse University is pleased to provide a smoke- and tobacco-free campus. Learn more about our tobacco-free campus . Related Pages Center for International Services The Center for International Services welcomes and guides international students and scholars from across the world. Cost of Attendance for International Students The cost of attendance is an estimate of what it will cost to attend Syracuse University for a nine month academic year (fall and spring semesters). Apply for Financial Aid On this page, you’ll find merit scholarship and loan information. Federal financial aid is only distributed to United States citizens, permanent residents, and eligible non-citizens. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy