Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Office of University Communications Office of University Communications Information For Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff Search BC.edu Links BC Forward Menu Main Nav BC Forward COVID Testing Back Back Close Updates Overview Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. Faculty & Staff Students & Parents Visitors COVID Testing Results COVID Testing Close Directory A to Z Listing Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Home Updates Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Updates Mar 30: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Feb 21: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau February 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 28: Letter From The Commonwealth of Massachusetts Jan 26: Letter From VP Shawna Cooper-Gibson and Dr. Douglas Comeau Jan 5: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Dec 22: Letter From Larry Pickener Dec 14: Letter From VP David Trainor and Dr. Douglas Comeau Nov 12: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau October 29: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Student Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 23: Faculty & Staff Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau September 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau August 25: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau & VP David Trainor August 11: Letter from Provost David Quigley & EVP Michael Lochhead July 29: Letter from EVP Michael Lochhead July 26: Letter to International Students from the Office of International Students & Scholars July 23: Letter to Students from the Office of Residential Life July 1: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau June 4: Letter From the Office of International Programs May 28: Letter From VP David Trainor May 21: Letter from Dr. Douglas Comeau May 13: Letter From VP David Trainor May 10: Letter From Dr. Douglas Comeau Apr 23: Letter From University President William P. Leahy S.J. January 26, 2022 Dear Students, We write to remind you that all BC students who plan to be on campus at any point during this semester must obtain a COVID-19 booster vaccination when eligible, and upload a copy of their COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card to Agora Health Services by Wednesday, February 9, 2022 (if you have not done so already). February 9 is your booster/upload deadline unless: you were approved to receive your last Pfizer or Moderna shot after August 9, 2021, and are not yet eligible for a booster by February 9, 2022 (contact University Health Services for approval of your second semester booster timetable), or you are within a 90-day window of contracting COVID-19 (obtain your booster and upload between day 10 and 90 following your positive test). Please note: The only exception to BC’s booster requirement will be for those who previously obtained a University-approved religious or medical COVID-19 vaccination exemption and have not since been fully vaccinated. Vaccination Record Card Uploading Instructions Students should upload COVID-19 Vaccination Record Cards to the Agora Health Services Portal following the steps below: Go to “Agora Portal - Other Services - Health Services” Select the IMMUNIZATION ICON on the Agora Health Services portal. Choose via the drop down menu the COVID-19 vaccination booster icon, and record the vaccination booster date. Click SUBMIT to save; Take a picture of the vaccination card or document and save it on your computer or phone to upload into the Portal (https://services.bc.edu), found under OTHER SERVICES; Choose the UPLOAD ICON and upload the picture under the COVID-19 vaccination booster in the drop-down menu (Note: the drop-down menu is below the list of "documents available to upload"). Click SELECT FILE, choose the file that you are uploading, and hit the UPLOAD button. Note: If you have misplaced your Vaccination Record Card, please contact UHS for assistance, or if you have received your full vaccination and booster within Massachusetts, you may click on https://www.myvaxrecords.mass.gov/ to obtain your personal state vaccine passport. The University is continuing its on-campus Booster Clinic for BC community members in the Connell Recreation Center. To make an appointment, please sign up via this online vaccination schedule. For all COVID-19 vaccination/booster questions, students should contact University Health Services at covidvaccination@bc.edu. BC has benefited from the extremely high vaccination rate of 99.3%. Obtaining a booster vaccination is a key component of our efforts to limit the spread of COVID-19, and help keep the BC and surrounding communities as healthy as possible. We ask for your continued assistance. Sincerely, Shawna Cooper-Gibson Vice President for Student Affairs Dr. Douglas Comeau Director, University Health Services and Primary Care Sport Medicine Back To Top Back To Top 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College