Language and Culture Center - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Language and Culture Center About Mission Intensive English Program Accreditation and Professional Memberships Scholarships Sponsors Statistics Future Students Apply Now Learn about Dates and Costs Apply for an F-1 Visa Submit Proof of Vaccination Travel to Houston Current Students Alumni Faculty and Staff Forms Newsletter We have moved back to the Roy G. Cullen Building. Students who cannot come to the United States for Fall 2020 due to COVID-19 or travel restrictions: You may alternatively enroll in the LCC online program. Please contact us at LCC@uh.edu regarding the online option. Students traveling from international destinations to the University of Houston must self-quarantine for 14 days upon arrival per the CDC Guidelines for international travelers and University protocol. For those students arriving from international destinations and who have confirmed contracts with Student Housing and Residential Life to reside on campus, please contact the Housing Office at housing@uh.edu or by office phone is 713-743-6000 to arrange for a space for your self-quarantine. For those students arriving from international destinations who are living off campus, you will be responsible for providing your own self-quarantine accommodations. #YouAreWelcomeHere English Language Program Welcome to the Language and Culture Center (LCC) at the University of Houston. Since 1975, the LCC has provided intensive English instruction for international students who want to study at universities in the United States or improve their English language skills to meet personal and professional goals. Over 27,000 students have increased their proficiency in English at the LCC. Apply Now Learn about our admissions process View more News & Events View more Future Students View more Current Students View more Program Information View more UH + Houston View more Calendar More Contact Us University of Houston Language and Culture Center 3687 Cullen Blvd., Suite 114 Roy G. Cullen Building Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-3030 LCC@uh.edu LCC Student System LCC Canvas Courses COVID-19 Updates University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies