Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Fogelman College - Department of Business Information and Technology Welcome Programs Faculty Research Admissions & Current Students FCBE Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Programs Degree Programs Certificate Programs Apply Now Take Action Contact Us Return to FCBE Follow Us Online FacebooktwitterYoutube Home BIT Programs Information Systems (Accelerated BBA/MS) Attention BIT Undergraduates – Sophomores and Juniors! Interested in getting a few graduate-level courses at under-graduate prices in your senior year? Consider taking Graduate classes while you are an Undergraduate at University of Memphis and you can earn a Graduate Certificate! You can get started on one of the BIT graduate certificates in business analytics, cyber-security or project management! If you plan it right, you can take 3 classes paying undergraduate tuition rates where each class will count toward your BBA, your Graduate Certificate, and your MSIS degree. That's a 3 for the price of 1 deal! The Department of BIT offers an Accelerated BBA/MS program to outstanding undergraduate majors in Business Information & Technology (B.B.A.). Students accepted into the program may begin coursework for the M.S. in Information Systems and/or a 4-course Graduate Certificate during their senior year. Students interested in this accelerated program are encouraged to begin planning for it early in their undergraduate careers, in consultation with both their undergraduate advisor and the M.S. Coordinator of the Department of Business Information & Technology. To be accepted into the Accelerated M.S. Program, students must submit the following to the Department of BIT: Must have a qualifying GPA (3.25 and above) Two letters of reference Copy of transcript Complete an interview with the M.S. Coordinator of the Department. Apply for a "combination status" to the Graduate School which allows accepted students to take graduate-level courses in Information Systems. After being accepted into the program, you will work closely with your undergraduate advisor and the M.S. Coordinator in order to develop a carefully tailored program of study so that you can begin work on the M.S. and/or Graduate Certificate as you complete your undergraduate degree. To continue the Graduate Program once you have completed your B.B.A., you must apply for full admission into the Graduate School and into the M.S. Program in Information Systems or Certificate program, your advisors can help you do this. Contact your BIT undergraduate advisor today! Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/2/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.