Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Accessing Care Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, then you should call EMS. For more information about Brown EMS follow this link. If you need emergency medical help call 401.863-4111. What should I do if my friend gets drunk? Do not let your friend wander off alone. You don't know where they might end up or what might happen. If your friend is throwing up, let them get it all out. Do not force them to drink water. The stomach lining is too irritated to accept any food or water. Do not let them drink any more alcohol. If you put your friend to bed... Make sure your friend is lying on their side or stomach, with their face pointing sideways. If they throw up, they are less likely to choke in this position. Cover them with a blanket. Alcohol dilates blood vessels and your friend will lose heat more rapidly than usual. It's important that a responsible person stay at their side, stay awake, and watch them for several hours. You have to make sure they don't roll on their back and watch for changes in their condition. If you can't wake them easily to have a conversation (clear words and answers, not grunts), call EMS. When should I call EMS? Call EMS at 401.863-4111 if: your friend is "falling down drunk," or has problems with speech or motor coordination. there are changes in their breathing, seizures, severe shaking, injury, continued vomiting, blood in vomit, or combativeness. they are drunk and on any other drugs or prescription medication. they have passed out. Their blood alcohol content could be going up rather than down and could lead to alcohol poisoning. You can't tell if their life is in danger. Will my friend get in trouble for drinking too much or for being underage? Your friend will not have a discipline hearing if they need medical attention only for drinking or other drug use. Brown wants you to get medical help for your friends when they need it. However, if they damaged property or broke other university regulations while drinking, there may be disciplinary consequences to those violations. Why should I call EMS? Even if your friend has thrown up, their blood alcohol content (BAC) may still be rising as the alcohol left in their digestive tract enters their bloodstream. They could choke if they vomit in their sleep, or they could stop breathing if their BAC gets high enough to depress the central nervous system. EMS conducts an extensive medical examination to determine if your friend needs to go to the hospital or if they are capable of refusing treatment. Don't take a chance with someone's life. Is EMS free? Brown EMS is a free service provided by the university. This is the case no matter how many times you call EMS. In rare cases, when Brown EMS is already on a call, Providence Rescue or a private ambulance service may be called to evaluate and treat an intoxicated student. In these situations, the student is responsible for the expense of the ambulance and the treatment. When a student needs to go to the hospital for emergency care, any emergency room and hospital charges are the responsibility of the student. Sometimes insurance will cover these costs but you need to check with your insurance company. If you have the insurance that's available through Brown, you can contact the Office of Insurance and Risk at 863-1703 for information on your insurance coverage. Why do Public Safety officers accompany EMS? Public Safety accompanies EMS for 2 reasons: to provide access to the building and to provide protection for the EMTs. This allows EMS to focus on treating the patient. Public Safety officers are required to file an incident report whenever they are called. This report is NOT the same as an EMS report. EMS is a part of Health Services, and all EMS reports and procedures are confidential. Will there be any follow-up to calling EMS? Yes, any time a student receives medical care for intoxication or injury as a result of alcohol or other drug use, the student is referred for a required follow-up appointment with BWell Health Promotion. These appointments are strictly confidential. Just like EMS and Health Services, Health Promotion cannot and will not release any information without a student's written permission. The purpose of these appointments is to provide educational information about alcohol and other drugs, discuss the student's risks based on their pattern of use and work with the student to reducce risk in the future. When are there disciplinary consequences? If a student violates University policies (offenses like fighting, vandalism, injuring others) while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs, this is cause for disciplinary action. What if I can't pay for the hospital bill? There may be funds available to help you through the Campus Life Emergency Fund (also known as E-Gap Funds). You will fill out a very brief application and then Campus Life will contact you. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook