Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Engineering and Computer Science Computer Science Main Navigation ABOUT ADMISSIONS DEGREES FACULTY & STAFF RESOURCES EMPLOYMENT CONTACT US Department of Computer Science Our Mission We provide students with: a strong knowledge of computer science fundamentals and computer system technology. practical problem-solving skills for creating computer systems and applications. the ability and motivation to adapt as technology advances. Creative research and professional development by our faculty and our students are essential to our success. If you have any questions or need help from the department, please contact administrative support staff at CSDept@fullerton.edu . If you are junior or senior, you need mandatory academic advisement to register for your classes. Please contact a major adviser shown on the advisement page and make an advising appointment. Accreditation The Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org Academic Advising Keys to academic advising are developing a CS Course Plan and understanding prerequisites . CS Department Advising The Computer Science Department would like to honor Anthony Quân Le, lecturer, for his dedication and service to the college. Anthony had been teaching in our department since Spring 2019 and had a life-long passion for teaching and learning. He will be missed. This site is maintained by College of Engineering and Computer Science. Last Published 4/15/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact ecswebmaster@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.