Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering President's Staff Advisory Council Home About Members Events Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Site Navigation Home About Meeting Minutes & Summaries Bylaws Reports Members Subcommittees Previous Members Events Faculty in Focus Lunchtime Events Meet & Mingles BEARtalks & Brown Bag Lunches Staff First Reading Program Staff Resources Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer Opportunities An important initiative for the President's Staff Advisory Council is participating in volunteer opportunities as well as giving other staff the opportunity to participate as well. Below are photos from some recent volunteering events by Brown University staff. Please check out our SAC newsletter and [email protected], where we'll continue posting volunteer opportunities. Feel free to reach out to us at [email protected] for any suggestions you have! Upcoming Events Baby/Kids Clothing and Gear Rummage Sale (supporting Brown Gives) - REVISED RUMMAGE SALE DATE TO COME Have baby/kids clothing or gear that your little one has outgrown? Pay it forward and donate your items to the Brown community at a clothing and gear rummage sale. All proceeds will go to Brown Gives, supporting United Way of RI. Due to COVID-19 concerns, this 3/26 event is being postponed, with a new date for the rummage sale TBD. The following new or gently used items will be accepted: Baby/Kids Clothing Sizes: Newborn - 5T Maternity Clothes: all sizes Accessories: shoes, boots, hats, gloves, bibs, burp cloths, swaddle blankets and sleep sacks Small baby gear: baby carriers, activity mats and stroller accessories No strollers, cribs, car seats, toys, books or other very large items How to Donate: Bring your baby/kids clothing and gear to one of the following drop off sites listed below. Any remaining items will be donated to a local organization. Last day to drop off donations will be Friday, March 20th. Contact Grace Young at [email protected] with any questions. Recent Volunteer Events Epiphany Soup Kitchen Each Saturday during the month of January 2020, members of the Staff Advisory Council and of the greater Brown community worked together to serve approximately 65 guests each week a hot meal and dessert and coffee. Epiphany Soup Kitchen is located at Saint Stephen's Episcopal Church on George Street, in the heart of Brown's campus, and has consistently feed the community for over eight years. This effort is fueled by, and depends on, the volunteers who generously donate their time and energy. Toys for Tots SAC will be coordinating a collection for the Marines Toys for Tots program at the Annual Staff Holiday Party on December 11, 2019 from 3-5 p.m. at South Street Landing. Receive 5 raffle tickets for each toy you donate, which you can use to bid on great prizes! In addition, SAC will coordinate collection drives for Toys for Tots at all seven Chelo's locations throughout Rhode Island. Find your nearest Chelo's here! BrownGives Opportunity at Chipotle SAC provides several ways to donate to BrownGives, Brown University's annual campaign for United Way, throughout the year. Two easy ways to help right now are to donate to BrownGives during the Annual Holiday Party on December 11, 2019 to receive an extra raffle ticket to bid on great prizes, and to eat at Chipotle's on Thayer Street anytime between 4-8 p.m. on December 10, 2019 (be sure to mention to the cashier that you are supporting BrownGives and United Way!). Children's Book Drive THANK YOU to the Brown University community! In 2019, SAC worked with United Way of Rhode Island and Books Are Wings to give every child the tools to experience the joy of reading. Giving a child a book does more than light up their face, it lights up their mind. Although having books in the home increases academic success, many children live in homes without them. More than 1,000 books were collected for United Way at the following locations on campus in April and May: Fight for Air Climb In March 2019, volunteers from SAC and the the American Lung Association participated in the "Climb for the Fight for Air" at the Providence OMNI Hotel. During the event hundreds of firefighters (dressed in full gear) and civilians climbed 23 flights of stairs to raise funds for this cause, and the American Lung Association raised $200,000! Blessing Bag Events A blessing bag is an immediate way to help people in need take care of basic hygiene needs. With generous donations from Brown staff, SAC has been able to host multiple blessing bag events, collecting toiletries, snacks, encouraging notes, water and more in order to create little care packages. At past events such as Staff Development Day, SAC and the Brown community have created hundreds of blessing bags and donated them to a partner organization known as the Elijah project. Stay tuned for information on the next blessing bag event! Staff Development Day Collection Campaigns Thanks to donations organized on Staff Development Day, SAC's volunteer committee has collected carloads of professional attire and delivered the donation to the Clothing Collaborative at Dorcas as well as soliciting donations in support of the Books are Wings program. Brown University staff has collected 285 books for Books are Wings that were distributed to children throughout the state of Rhode Island. 28th Annual Rhode Island National Guard Air Show In May 2018, volunteers collected donations in support of Hasbro Children’s Hospital at the 28th annual Rhode Island Air Show. India Point Park Cleanup At the Providence Parks India Point Park Cleanup, volunteers planted 200 "plugs," filled 15 lawn bags with weeds, pruned bushes desperately in need of help, spread newspapers, and transported and spread mulch. Get Involved Serving on SAC University Advisory Boards & Committees Volunteer Opportunities President's Staff Advisory Council President's Staff Advisory Council Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1000 Email [email protected] Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top