Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Department of Mathematical Sciences About People Undergraduate Graduate Research News Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Graduate Admissions Assistantships Awards Presentations The M.S. program The Ph.D. program Program InformationPh.D Graduates Courses & Syllabi Graduate Exams Graduate Handbook Memphis Graduate Seminar Take Action Student FAQ Cantor Sect Contact Us Home Math Sciences Graduate Memphis Graduate Seminar Memphis Graduate Seminar Memphis graduate seminar provides a friendly and supportive atmosphere for graduate students to attend or deliver talks to communicate their interests in all branches of mathematics. This would give everyone a chance to interact outside of class while providing exposure to some of the current research interests of the department. The seminar also provides graduate students an open forum to improve their skills in giving mathematical talks in a supportive environment. This seminar runs once every two weeks on Thursday at 3:00 PM. The talks are usually designed for 50 minutes with 10 more minutes for possible questions. Graduate students are strongly recommended to deliver talks in the seminar. The level of each talk will be kept at an introductory level, which is below the usual standard of a typical research seminar. No specific backgrounds of the audience are assumed. Everybody is welcome to attend, and refreshments would be provided. If you would like to give a talk in the seminar, please feel free to contact any organizers below. Organizer: Xin Ma Co-organizers: Chao Liu, Szu Ting Kitty Yang, Jose Henrique Rodrigues, Madhumita Roy. Faculty advisor: Bentuo Zheng. For more information, please visit Memphis Graduate Seminar – News & Events for Department of Mathematical Sciences Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/8/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.