Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Scholarships Important Announcements Scholarship Opportunities Tiger Scholarship Manager HOPE Scholarship Forms FAQs Summer 3+3 Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Take Action Tiger Scholarship Manager Submitting a Scholarship Check Service Hours Contact Us Home Scholarships Service Hours Scholarship Service Hour Requirement Options As a scholarship student at the University of Memphis, you are required to perform a certain number of service hours in order to keep your scholarship. Our office has developed this sheet to give you a list of options that you have to complete your service hours. Our office will need official verification from your site supervisor that you have completed your service hours. The service hour verification letter should be on official letterhead, signed by your site supervisor, who may not be a related party or yourself, and must include the following: Your UID number, name, total hours volunteered, a brief summary of your responsibilities, and your site supervisor’s contact information. Service hours must be completed during the academic year in which the scholarship award is received. Verification of service hours is due by June 1st of each academic year. Note: hours in excess of your scholarship requirement do not carry forward. Scholarships will not be renewed for the upcoming school year until service hour completion is verified and appropriate supporting documentation is received by the Scholarship Office. The Helen Hardin Honors Program Students in the Helen Hardin Honors College can fulfill the service hour requirement by completing Honors courses. Each 3 hour Honors course taken completes (75) service hours (i.e. two Honors courses completed per year fulfills the 150 service hour requirement for that year). Students in the Honors College should earn a grade no lower than a B in their Honors course. If you take more than two Honors courses per year, you may not count the course towards service hours for the following year. Students may participate in an approved Honors Experience (i.e., undergraduate research/internship, graduate course, honors directed study etc.), or contract for Honors credit and satisfactorily completing the Honors contract work by earning a grade no lower than a B. Please note grades of B- or lower in your honors course will not satisfy the service hour requirement. The Scholarship Office will receive notice from the Helen Hardin Honors College, of students who took honors courses or contracted for honors credit. For more information on becoming a member of the University Honors Program go to: https://www.memphis.edu/honors National Conference on Undergraduate Research (NCUR) Students participating in NCUR through the University Honors Program have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to the University of Memphis. You must submit a statement on letterhead from the Helen Hardin Honors Program signed by the Director/Assistant Director and return it to the Scholarship Office. Educational Support Program (ESP) Scholarship service hours can be earned by tutoring through the Educational Support Program (ESP). If you have the following characteristics, you could be an ESP tutor: 1) Good standing in the Scholarship Program 2) Like working with others 3) Interested in learning about yourself 4) Reliable and dependable 5) Can schedule hours each week for service hours (until they are completed). You must submit a statement on letterhead signed by a representative from the Educational Support Program that includes your name, UID number, a brief description of responsibilities, hours worked, and their contact information. Contact ESP at 678-2704 for more information. Officer in a Registered Student Organization Students currently serving in an officer capacity with a Registered Student Organization at the University of Memphis requiring significant responsibilities for the benefit of the organization have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to the University of Memphis. You must have the Advisor of the student organization or the University of Memphis advisor type a memo on letterhead that includes your name, UID number, position(s) held and when, a brief description of responsibilities, and advisor contact information. Participation in Major Student Coordinated Organizations/Events Students significantly involved in the following have fulfilled their scholarship hour obligation to The University of Memphis: Student Government Association Student Ambassador Board Emerging Leaders Program Student Activities Council (Leadership Positions) Frosh Camp (Leadership Positions) Up Til Dawn (Leadership Positions) International or National Student Exchange Program Participation You must have the Advisor of the student organization or the University of Memphis advisor type a memo on letterhead that includes your name, UID number, position(s) held and when, a brief description of responsibilities, and advisor contact information. Individual Service Contract Option Student Leadership & Involvement has collaborated with external organizations that contribute to community needs to provide vetted service opportunities to students. Students looking to complete their service requirement volunteering with our community partners should search for opportunities using the Volunteer Calendar and Volunteer Odyssey. You may contact our Student Leadership & Involvement office for more information at studentinvolvement@memphis.edu or 901.678.8679. Students selecting opportunities not provided through Volunteer Odyssey should provide verification of completed hours to our office. The service hour verification letter should be on official letterhead, signed by your site supervisor, who may not be a related party or yourself, and must include the following: Your UID number, name, total hours volunteered, a brief summary of your responsibilities, and your site supervisor's contact information. Service hours must be completed during the academic year in which the scholarship award is received. Verification of service hours is due by June 1st. Verification of hours may be faxed to us at 901.678.5621, emailed to scholarships@memphis.edu, or mailed to 201 Wilder Tower, Memphis, TN 38152. The University of Memphis Office Assignment Many University of Memphis departments and programs utilize scholarship students to perform various office tasks. If you are unable to complete your service hours in any other manner, the Scholarship Office has a list of departments on campus who need service volunteers. Such offices as the University Library, Campus School, Honors Program and the Recruitment Offices need assistance with various tasks during the school year. You must have the department supervisor send the Scholarship Office an email that includes your name, UID number, hours volunteered, a brief description of responsibilities, and their contact information. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 10/23/20 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.