Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index School of Law Menu Search TTU School of Law Summer Public Interest Award The biggest and most important lesson I learned in my summer internship was just how important and necessary public interest work is. Those who seek legal advice are typically experiencing the most trying situations of their lives. Attorneys have the ability to help and resolve these dilemmas, but indigence should not bar someone from receiving that kind of resolution. I truly believe that all lawyers, in all variances of practice, have a duty to help those who cannot help themselves. They have a duty to represent the indigent with the same amount of care and diligence used to represent a paying client. Andrew Gendi, Candidate, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Class of 2021 2019 Public Interest Internship: Capital Public Defender's Office The Public Interest Award supports summer fellowships for Texas Tech University Law School students interested in working in public interest law. Interested students apply in the spring semester for an award to do public interest legal work in the summer following their first or second year of law school. Students in the first-year class raise the funds for the Public Interest Awards through the annual Public Interest Award Auction. Local attorneys, local businesses, law professors and staff, and law students donate items to be part of the live or silent auctions. Being a recipient of a Public Interest Award is competitive. The Public Interest Award Committee selects the recipients in April. Applications are scored based on students' commitment to public interest, as demonstrated by a personal statement detailing how they've advanced the public interest in law school and beyond; financial need; and how greatly the type of internship they've acquired serves the public interest. One last thing that I found interesting is how quickly I got invested in the cases that I was doing work for. I was eager to know about the process of the cases, pleas offered if any, the prediction of the trajectory, and the status. I became so invested that I ended up extending my internship because one of the cases was about to go to trial right after what would have been my last day at the DA's office; instead, I continued until the trial was over. Jay'Neisha Davis, Candidate, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Class of 2020 2018 Public Interest Internships: Lubbock County District Attorney's Office & Catholic Charities of Lubbock To apply: Public Interest Awards Application Regardless of whether or not our clients had committed the crimes that they were accused of, they were people first, and deserved the right to equal representation. Furthermore, many of our clients had been disadvantaged in their lives and were experiencing so much more than just the legal troubles that we were helping them to fight. Being able to help lighten the load for our clients brought a sense of fulfillment and purpose to my summer experience. What I did mattered, and it showed. Sidney Wiltshire, Candidate, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Class of 2020 2019 Public Interest Internships: Washtenaw County Office of Public Defenders Frequently Asked Questions: Who can apply for a Public Interest Award? Any current Texas Tech law student who will be a Texas Tech law student in the next academic year may apply. 3Ls graduating in May are not eligible, as they will no longer be a law student when the work will be performed. Students planning to transfer are not eligible for the award. What qualifies as public interest work for the award? Public interest law includes working for individuals, groups, and social interests that are traditionally underserved or have barriers to equal access to justice. Public interest law seeks to promote social justice through the empowerment of people and communities. It encompasses both policy and direct representation legal work. It may include prosecutor or public defender offices, military judge advocates general, judicial clerkships, and governmental offices that directly serve individuals with challenges to access to justice. The work must be primarily legal in nature and supervised by a licensed attorney. Fellowship applicants must articulate in their application materials how the proposed work is in the public interest. Can I change internship locations after I have been awarded an award? You must ask for approval of a change in internship locations. Contact Professor Brie Sherwin if this occurs. How many hours of public interest work must an awardee complete? It varies. Students may split summers between a public interest position and another position, but the amount of time spent at the public interest position may influence the amount of funds granted to the awardee. Students must indicate in their applications if they are splitting their summer and, if they are, must indicate how much time will be spent at the public interest internship. How much is a PILS award? Amounts vary. Factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, the following: The student's previous commitment to public interest How strongly the organization's mission serves the public interest Length of the public interest internship Financial need of the student Cost of living in the location of the internship Can I earn academic credit for my public interest internship? No. After I've been granted a public interest award, are there any other requirements? Students must complete a one-page essay reflecting on their experiences in the public interest internship, what they learned, and how/why it was a valuable experience. Essays are due to Professor Brie Sherwin at the start of the fall semester. The essays may be used to show donors the importance of their donations and to illustrate the importance of public interest work to future students. Excerpts of the essays may be used in print or electronic advertising. This year, we will ask our winners for permission to put together a series of short video clips of their reflections on the program. What is the overall time frame to apply and perform the work if I am granted an award? Friday, March 11: Online application opens. Friday, April 8: Online applications due. Mid-April: Award winners are announced. Fellows are provided an award letter. Mid-May: Awards are distributed. May-August: Awardees complete their summer internships. September 1: Reflection essays are due. How can I put together the strongest public interest award application possible? Description of the work you intend to do. Demonstrate in your application that you have an understanding of the goals and parameters of the work you intend to perform. Make sure to state clearly how the work you will be doing fits within the definition of public interest law. Personal statement and past involvement in public interest work. Demonstrate in your application your commitment to working for the public interest, looking back at past experiences during and before law school. Explain the personal connection that drives you to help underserved communities, share a compelling story from your involvement in pro bono work, or describe a public interest initiative you led as an undergraduate. If necessary, offer an explanation of the factors that have prevented you from pursuing public service activities in law school. I began to look at these defendants, these “criminals,” not as those with whom I had nothing in common, but as men and women with which I had far, far more similarities than I had differences. There were consistent accounts from the defendants or their attorneys about the circumstances that surrounded their lives and criminality. Almost without exception, I could pluck myself out of the life that has largely been granted to me without merit, place it instead in the life of each defendant, and see myself standing on the blue tape that held the place where each of them learned their fate during sentencing. Aaron Wesson, Candidate, Doctor of Jurisprudence, Class of 2021 2019 Public Interest Internship: 282nd District Court – Dallas County Previous Award Recipients 2021 Jose Castaneda Gonzalez: Nacogdoches County Attorney's Office Haley Hickey: Bexar County Public Defender's Office Lissette Moreno: Judicial Intern for United States District Courts for the Northern District of Texas Megan Parry: Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid Rachel Porter: Ninth Judicial District Attorney's Office Princess Rodarte: Dallas Volunteer Attorney Program – Legal Aid of Northwest Texas Lily Talamantes: Judicial Intern for Judge William Moody (34th Judicial District Court) Keenan White: U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Committee 2019 Noora Bayrami: Department of Justice, Torts Divisions, Office of Vaccine Litigation Jessica Bebawi: 380th District Court Gabrielle Bechyne: Disability Rights Texas Ashtyn Davis: Dallas County Public Defender Andrew Gendi: Capital Public Defender's Office Hailey Hanners: Office of the Attorney General of Texas Darris Hawks: New Mexico Public Defender's Office Tessa Meredith: Dallas County District Attorney Paula Millan: Fiscalia General de la Nacion Sede Antiguo DAS (Colombia) Jakob Reynolds: Federal Public Defender's Office, Northern District of Texas Michael Samaniego: U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas – El Paso Alexandra Sterken: U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Texas Lauren Trevino: Office of the Criminal District Attorney Taylor Walls: Texas Department of Criminal Justice – State Counsel for Offenders Aaron Wesson: 282nd District Court – Dallas County Sidney Wiltshire: Washtenaw County Office of Public Defenders 2018 Tashika Curlee: Federal Public Defenders Office for the Northern District of Texas Jay'Neisha Davis: Lubbock County District Attorney's Office & Catholic Charity of Lubbock Tracie Dionne: District Attorney's Office for the 33rd and 424th Judicial Districts Hailey Hanners: Texas Advocacy Project Scott Keffer: Texas Supreme Court & U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas Skyler Parks: Texas RioGrande Legal Aid Cole Payne: United States Department of Agriculture—Office of the General Counsel Joseph Reynolds: United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Texas Alana Rosen: 282nd District Court in Dallas County School of Law Like School of Law on FacebookLike School of Law on Facebook Follow School of Law on twitterFollow School of Law on twitter Subscribe to School of Law on YouTubeSubscribe to School of Law on YouTube Connect with School of Law on LinkedInConnect with School of Law on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University School of Law, 3311 18th Street, Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 Phone 806.742.3791 Email law@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMar 10, 2022 9:38 AM School of Law About Us School of Law About Us Back Our Story School of Law About Us Our Story Back Who We Are Mission Statement & Learning Outcomes Strategic Plan Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Our Community School of Law About Us Our Community Back Faculty Directory Staff Directory Admissions School of Law Admissions Back Prospective Students School of Law Admissions Prospective Students Back Welcome Why Texas Tech Law Transfer and Visiting Applicants Diversity & Inclusion FAQs Recruiting Events and Virtual Resources ABA Required Disclosures Apply to Texas Tech Law School of Law Admissions Apply to Texas Tech Law Back Admissions Policy Application Process Apply Now Online Status Check Financial Aid School of Law Admissions Financial Aid Back Tuition Refunds and Payments How to Apply Scholarships Loans and State Aid Other Types of Aid Student's Rights and Responsibilities Admitted Students School of Law Admissions Admitted Students Back Welcome Pay Your Seat Deposit Online eRaider Account Campus Computing Resources Academics School of Law Academics Back Academic Resources School of Law Academics Academic Resources Back Academic Policies Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Raiderlink Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory 2021-22 Post-Tenure Review Staff Directory Information Technology Services Publications MyTechLaw Degree Programs School of Law Academics Degree Programs Back Doctor of Jurisprudence Dual-Degree Programs Concentrations Centers & Programs School of Law Academics Centers & Programs Back Center for Biodefense, Law, and Public Policy Center for Military Law and Policy Center for Water Law and Policy Office of Academic Success Programs Advocacy Competition Energy Law Program Legal Practice International Law Programs Public Service Clinics & Externships School of Law Academics Clinics & Externships Back Clinical Program Overview Regional Externship Office of the Registrar School of Law Academics Office of the Registrar Back Welcome Registration Information Exam Information Request a Transcript FERPA Degree & Enrollment Verifications Reordering Diploma Open Records Request Texas Bar Exam and MPRE Student Life School of Law Student Life Back Important Links School of Law Student Life Important Links Back Academic Policies Honor Code & Student Handbook Faculty Directory Staff Directory Title IX Life at Tech Law School of Law Student Life Life at Tech Law Back Meet Student Life Academic Support Student Support Public Service Student Organizations Advocacy Competition Teams Summer Public Interest Award Publications School of Law Student Life Publications Back Texas Tech Law Review Estate Planning & Community Property Law Journal Journal of Biosecurity, Biosafety, and Biodefense Law Texas Bank Lawyer The Sidebar Express School of Law Catalog Law School Video Recording Law School Events School of Law Student Life Law School Events Back Event Calendar Events@Law Submission Guidelines May 2022 Commencement Library School of Law Library Back Law Library Home Services School of Law Library Services Back Students Faculty Alumni Practicing Attorneys Visitors Research and Reference School of Law Library Research and Reference Back Electronic Databases Internet Resources Scholar Research Guide Series HeinOnline WestlawNext Intro to Legal Periodicals and Books SSRN ProQuest Congressional BNA Bloomberg Law Lexis Advance West Academic Study Aids Technical Services School of Law Library Technical Services Back Web Printing ILL Information School of Law Library Information Back Library Newsletter Map and Directions Floor Plans Other Area Libraries Job Openings Contact Us Careers School of Law Careers Back Home School of Law Careers Home Back Welcome Symplicity Students School of Law Careers Students Back Services MyTechLaw Employers School of Law Careers Employers Back Posting a Job Opportunity On-Campus Interview Programs Regional Interview Events Online Resume ViewBooks Rank Spread Alumni School of Law Careers Alumni Back Request a Transcript Job Search Resources 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Form Employment Statistics School of Law Careers Employment Statistics Back 2021 Employment Summary 2020 Employment Summary 2019 Employment Summary Alumni & Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Back General Information School of Law Alumni & Giving General Information Back Resources for Alumni Texas Tech Lawyer Magazine Texas Tech Law School Foundation School of Law Alumni & Giving Texas Tech Law School Foundation Back Foundation Board Distinguished Alumni, Service, and Humanitarian Awards Giving to Texas Tech Law Alumni Association School of Law Alumni & Giving Alumni Association Back Alumni Association Awards Giving School of Law Alumni & Giving Giving Back How to Give Annual Giving Endowments Gift & Estate Planning Give Now MyTechLaw Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Additional Resources TTU Home Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index ... ...