Skip to content Cornell University Search toggle menu close About Cornell About Cornell Overview University Facts Maps & Directions Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Related Links Diversity Indigenous Engagement Economic Impact Sustainability Global Cornell Leadership Admissions Overview Undergraduate Apply Admissions Dates and Deadlines Costs and Aid Graduate Admissions Fields of Study Financial Support Continuing Education & Summer Sessions Summer Sessions Winter Sessions Part-time Study Academics Academics Overview Fields of Study Colleges & Schools Departments Library Continuing Education Related Links Office of the Provost Academic Calendar Course Catalog Global Learning Learning Goals Research Overview Explore Cornell Research Extreme Talent. Radical Collaboration. Results That Matter. Related Links Vice President for Research and Innovation Centers & Institutes Technology Licensing (CTL) Graduate Research Undergraduate Research OVPRI Research Publications Public Engagement Overview Featured CCE helps Buffalo get school food truck rolling Related Links Cornell Cooperative Extension Engaged Cornell Hub Land Grant to New York State New York State Impact Life at Cornell Life at Cornell Overview Athletics & Recreation Arts & Culture Health & Safety Live, Work, Travel Student Life Related Links Find Your Networks Center for First-Year Students Clubs & Student Groups More Toggle navigation Apply Undergraduate Graduate Visit Give Students Families Faculty & Staff Alumni Search Search Overview University Facts Mission & Vision Core Values Locations Ithaca New York City Maps & Directions 570 Lexington Avenue More than a dozen Cornell programs occupy space in the historic General Electric building (formerly the RCA Victor building) at Lexington Ave. and 51st St., providing a new Midtown hub for faculty research, student learning and public engagement activities. The building serves as the new NYC headquarters for the ILR School and Cornell University Cooperative Extension-New York City. School of Industrial and Labor Relations With 40,000-square-feet of space, ILR has workstations and offices for nearly 100 staff, a variety of classrooms and accommodations for seven institutes and programs: The Worker Institute; ILR Executive Education; the Scheinman Institute on Conflict Resolution; the Labor and Employment Law Program; the Institute for Compensation Studies; the Smithers Institute for Alcohol-Related Workplace Studies; and the Institute for Workplace Studies. On the 12th floor, the ILR NYC Conference Center provides space for conferences, seminars, workshops, trainings, meetings, classes and receptions. Weill Cornell Medicine Weill Cornell Medicine, including headquarters for the Weill Cornell Graduate School Master of Science in Health Sciences for Physician Assistants Program, occupies the building’s ninth and 10th floors. Weill Cornell Medicine’s administrative and external affairs offices are nearby at 575 Lexington Ave. Cornell SC Johnson College of Business The seventh floor includes space for classes, meetings, networking and other activities hosted by the college and each of its three schools — the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management and the Cornell Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration. Cornell University Cooperative Extension-New York City Twelve educators and staff provide programs on health, nutrition and family and youth development, serving thousands of NYC residents annually. Learn more Engaged Cornell Community-engaged learning and research programs and projects offered by Cornell schools, colleges and units with support from the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement, which also will provide New York City-area alumni with opportunities to participate in numerous community-engaged learning, research, leadership and other programs. Learn more Practicing Medicine: Health Care Culture and Careers A program of the College of Human Ecology and the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions (SCE), the experiential learning program targets students considering careers in health care. Learn More SCE also offers NYC-based summer classes in law and business management. College of Agriculture and Life Sciences CALS provides a home base for college staff and faculty visiting NYC to reserve workstations on a first-come, first-served basis. Cornell Engineering The Systems Engineering Program has space to foster collaborations with Cornell partners and with other programs in New York City. Cornell University Library CUL has reserved space to support the information and research needs of Cornell’s New York City-based programs, students, faculty and researchers. Learn more New York Sea Grant The program – a partnership between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Cornell and the State University of New York – leverages the location to promote coastal community economic vitality, environmental sustainability and citizen awareness of the state’s Great Lakes and marine resources, including those in the NYC metro area. Helpful Links expand menu Academic Calendar Leadership Careers Events News Title IX Emergency Preparedness Visiting Cornell expand menu Campus Tours Maps & Directions Ithaca-NYC Travel Johnson Museum Botanic Gardens Ithaca Ithaca Today expand menu Live View Weather 79°F / 26°C Ithaca, New York University Privacy Web Accessibility Assistance Copyright Site Information Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube