Skip to main content COVID-19 RESPONSE Learn how Pitt is building a healthy and resilient community. About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics open search open menu Close Search Pitt Search Search for People Close Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events Navigation Navigation About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work Highlights Highlights Alumni Community Global Sustainability Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube The Future Lives at Pitt toggle video playback Explore the future of: Community Impact Health & Wellness Technology and Science Arts & Humanities Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Global Engagement Innovation & Research Our City/Our Campus Learn More on Pittwire PITTWIRE Their Professor Is in Ukraine. His Students Said It Changed Their Lives Economist Tymofiy Mylovanov gave his Pitt students a “heartbreaking and enlightening” look at the struggles of a war-torn nation.﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿ PITTWIRE Celebrating New Grads More than 2,200 undergrads joined a distinguished group of more than 350,000 Pitt alumni during Pitt’s first in-person, University-wide commencement ceremony since 2019. Pitt Athletics Steelers Pick Pickett Pitt's Kenny Pickett is selected by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the first round of the NFL Draft. PITTWIRE Going Carbon Neutral by 2037 The Pitt Climate Action Plan spells out how investments in clean energy, transportation and efficiency will reduce the University’s carbon footprint to zero. Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 The Ones to Watch In an environment where innovation and inspiration are in no short supply, meet the trailblazers. Asher Hancock This engineer wants to put autonomous vehicles in the sky. Richard Su Fang The U.S. Presidential Scholar and first-year Pitt student is already exploring research opportunities and taking on leadership roles. Danielle Obisie-Orlu The Allegheny County Youth Poet Laureate with a 30-year plan. Jim Withers His Street Medicine Institute provides “street rounds” and social services to people who live outdoors. Ashley Priore A rising senior, political strategist and top chess player who’s making bold moves. Toya Jones Studying trauma and its impact. Tre Tipton This wide receiver and social work graduate student﻿﻿﻿’s journey has taken him from despair to LOVE—living out victoriously every day. Catherine Cavanaugh This nationally lauded scholar is helping Spanish speakers learn complex science. Previous Slide Next Slide See More Spotlights Reinvention never stops Expand Tile Schenley Quad Schenley Quadrangle contains five of Pitt’s 14 residence halls. Expand Tile Schenley Park Schenley Park, with 456 acres of trails, woods and attractions, is a quick walk or bike ride from the Pittsburgh campus. Expand Tile Cathedral of Learning The 42-story Cathedral of Learning (“Cathy” to many students) stands at the heart of the Pittsburgh campus. Expand Tile Heinz Field Heinz Field is home to Pitt Panthers football. Expand Tile The Allegheny River Pittsburgh is home to 440-plus bridges—more than any other city, even Venice—and three rivers. Expand Tile Panther Statue Students rub the nose of the Pitt Panther statue on campus for good luck on exams. Global Menu Apply Visit Give Pittwire Events About Academics Admissions Research Life at Pitt Athletics Quick Links & Resources Quick Links & Resources Accessibility Statement Careers Consumer Info/Achievement Contact Us Departments A-Z Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Find People Information Technology LGBTQ+ Nondiscrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy My Pitt Regional Campuses Regional Campuses Bradford Greensburg Johnstown Titusville Colleges & Schools Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Business Computing & Information Dental Medicine Education Engineering General Studies Health & Rehabilitation Honors College Law Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public & Intl Affairs Public Health Social Work 4200 Fifth Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15260 United States +1 412-624-4141 Twitter Instagram Facebook Youtube