Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Diversity & Inclusion Menu Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It! Baylor>Diversity & Inclusion>Train & Learn>Students Students Campus Events Please check the University Calendar often to see what events are being offered on campus. Here, we will include a selection of events that we highly encourage you to attend in order to to engage in critical thinking and opportunities for growth and development to become better neighbors, citizens, and leaders. Annual Calendar of Multicultural Affairs Events Texas Consortium for Male Students of Color Institute Defamation Experience Leave Your Mark Learning Opportunity Learn More! In order to create a more caring community, we all need to recognize that we don’t know all there is to know. Let's engage in a journey of honest, reflective self-awareness and pursue a lifelong process of learning about different cultures and perspectives. Here are a few resources you can use to learn more about implicit bias and what ideas and thoughts you may be carrying with you on the journey: Under Our Skin Project Microaggression Examples What is Implicit Bias? Developing Cultural Humility Report it! Members of a caring community stand up for one another. We care about our neighbor more than our own interests. If you see an incident or situation, report it. Report It! Talk About it! Seek first to understand, then be understood. If someone tells you about a microaggression they have experienced, believe them. They are trusting you and not believing their experience or belittling it can compound the harm. You can leave your mark on someone's life by believing them and walking with them to the counseling center or sharing the website with them, so they can begin to heal from the hurt that can be caused by microaggressions: Baylor Counseling Center Let's Talk : every Tuesday from 12:30-3:30 pm in the SUB, room 212 Judicial Affairs Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Leadership Commitment Future Gilbert-Walker Statue President's Diversity Council Faculty Development and Diversity Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Developing Cultural Humility Diversity Updates Human Sexuality at Baylor Frequently Asked Questions Policy Commission on Historic Campus Representations Academic Programs Xavier University Exchange Program Baylor Interdisciplinary Core Women's and Gender Studies McNair Scholars Program Campus Involvement Active Citizenship Campus Communities Student Organizations and Greek Life THIS Matters Global Baylor Train & Learn Students Staff & Faculty Cultural Events Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Community Events Resources Baylor Free Food Events Campus Diversity Committee Diversity Enhancement Grant Diversity Enhancement Award Cultural Events Experience for Religiously Diverse Students Communities of Faith Religious Observance Calendar The Good Neighbor Project Report It! The Career Closet Women's Colloquium Dr. Beverly Daniel Tatum Report It!