Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Online Transfer Admissions Request Information Fill out the form below and we'll email you more information about UCF's online bachelor programs. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Anthropology, BACareer and Technical Education, BSCommunication and Conflict, BACriminal Justice, BA/BSEnglish - Creative Writing, BAEnglish - Literature, BAEnglish - Technical Communication, BAHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHistory, BAHospitality Management, BSIntegrative General Studies, BGSInterdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership)Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSInternational and Global Studies, BALatin American Studies, BALegal Studies, BA/BSLodging and Restaurant Management, BSNursing, BSPolitical Science, BAPsychology, BSReligion and Cultural Studies, BASenior Living Management, BSSocial Sciences, BSSociology, BA/BSUndecided/Unsure Email This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice TRANSFER TO UCF ONLINE Whether you’re around the corner or across the globe, transferring from another institution or returning to college to complete your degree, UCF’s online programs are designed and taught by the same faculty members who teach classes on our campuses. Our fully online bachelor’s degrees offer the convenience, affordability and support you need to succeed. APPLY AS A TRANSFER STUDENT Are you a transfer student? If you’re seeking a bachelor’s degree, have attended one or more colleges or universities and have completed 12 or more transferable college or university credits post-high school, you will apply to UCF Online as a transfer student. Check out the Undergraduate Catalog and Office of Undergraduate Admissions websites for complete undergraduate admissions requirements. Steps to Apply 1. Speak with a success coach. At UCF Online, earning an undergraduate degree is anything but a solo journey. The UCF Online Connect Center offers a team of success coaches specially trained to provide high-level support, coordination and guidance from admission through graduation. So whether you’re returning to college or seeking a convenient way to earn a degree, we’re ready to help you succeed. Get started today by speaking to one of our success coaches. CONNECT WITH A COACH 2. Create a smooth transition plan. Transfer-admission criteria can vary based upon the number of transferable semester hours of college coursework completed by the time you enroll at UCF. To learn more about specific transfer requirements, select the category below that best describes you: I will have fewer than 30 transferable semester hours I will have 30 or more, but fewer than 60 transferable semester hours I will have 60 or more transferable semester hours For transfer applications, UCF operates on a rolling admission basis and generally notifies you of an admission decision once all of your supporting documentation are received and reviewed. You can check your admission status online through the myUCF portal. Once admitted, a transfer credit summary will be available on myUCF. Transferring from a Florida school? Learn more about transferring from one of our partner schools: Hillsborough Community College Florida Gateway College College of the Florida Keys Indian River State College North Florida College Northwest Florida State College Miami Dade College Pasco-Hernando State College Polk State College St. Petersburg College Some documents that may be required: Official transcripts from all previously attended institutions for all academic work. Minimum 2.0 GPA at last school attended and overall cumulative GPA for all college work Demonstrated competency of foreign language or American Sign Language equivalent to the second high school level or higher OR at the elementary 2 level in one foreign language or American Sign Language at an undergraduate institution High school transcript and SAT and/or ACT (if you’re applying with fewer than 60 transferable credit hours) Two English composition courses with a grade C or better AND two math courses (college algebra or higher) with a grade C or better (if you’re applying with 60 or more transferable credit hours) Official course-by-course evaluation from Josef Silny & Associates or World Education Services for all international post-secondary (college or university coursework, if applicable Official AP, IB, AICE, CLEP and Cambridge AS/A level score reports for exams taken, if applicable. **Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. Documents can be mailed to: University of Central Florida Office of Undergraduate Admissions P.O. Box 160111 Orlando, FL 32816-0111 Explore your financial aid options. Financial aid is available to UCF Online students just like it is for on-campus students. Check out the Office of Student Financial Assistance to learn about options for paying for college. 3. Apply to UCF Online with confidence. We encourage you to apply early, as admission to UCF is competitive. As a transfer student, you can apply up to one year prior to the term in which you want to enroll. If you’re a Florida College System graduate with an A.A. degree or an articulated A.S. degree, you will receive priority over out-of-state transfers in the admission process. After you’ve checked out all of UCF’s online bachelor’s degree options and connected with a coach, you’re ready to begin your journey. Pay the $30 nonrefundable application fee for each application submitted Send all required documents Apply Now OR Explore Programs Request Information × I’d like someone to contact me about starting the application process. Name* First Last Phone* Email* Degree* Anthropology, BACareer and Technical Education, BSCommunication and Conflict, BACriminal Justice, BA/BSEnglish - Creative Writing, BAEnglish - Literature, BAEnglish - Technical Communication, BAHealth Informatics and Information Management, BSHealth Services Administration, BSHistory, BAHospitality Management, BSIntegrative General Studies, BGSInterdisciplinary Studies, BA (Diversity Studies Leadership)Interdisciplinary Studies, BA/BSInternational and Global Studies, BALatin American Studies, BALegal Studies, BA/BSLodging and Restaurant Management, BSNursing, BSPolitical Science, BAPsychology, BSReligion and Cultural Studies, BASenior Living Management, BSSocial Sciences, BSSociology, BA/BSUndecided/Unsure Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Request Info Privacy Notice Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida