Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Bloomington Indiana University Bloomington IU Bloomington Menu About History Rankings & Campus Statistics Mission & Strategic Planning Leadership & Administration Safety & Emergency Information Visit Campus Transportation & Parking A-Z List Jobs at IU How to Hire IU Students Admissions How to Apply Cost & Finances Visit IU & Bloomington Academics The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Business Health & Wellness Science, Engineering & Technology Public Service Arts & Culture Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Research Hoosier Life Traditions & Spirit Student Organizations Recreational Sports Athletics Health, Wellness & Safety Housing & Dining Visiting Bloomington Attractions & Things to Do Diversity on Campus Career Prep Find Your Passion Get Experience Develop Your Career Use Your Network Alumni & Giving News & Events Indiana University Bloomington Home About Admissions Academics Research Hoosier Life Career Prep Alumni & Giving News & Events Home Academics The Academic Experience The Academic Experience An IU Bloomington education is bold and innovative—and prepares you to be, too “Dream no small dreams.” Those words by legendary former IU president Herman B Wells capture the power of an IU education. We encourage your big ambitions. We empower you every way we can. We give you as many opportunities as possible—in the IU academic experience and Hoosier life—to learn, get experience, grow, and prepare for the rest of your life. Like you, we don’t rest on our laurels. We’re always exploring, discovering, innovating. Because we feel the same way about our university that we do about your potential: The sky’s the limit. What are undergraduate courses like? 18:1student-faculty ratio 33students in the average class 64%of classes have fewer than 30 students Make your IU experience what you want it to be Whatever your passion is, we want to help you find it and dive right in—starting with our designed-to-be-combined academic programs. Focus deeply on one field and take advantage of every academic opportunity we have for you, or cast your net wide and explore several interests, no matter how far-flung. Either way, our faculty and advisors will support you, and so will your peers.Explore our degrees and majors A strong foundation and specialized skills Our curriculum ensures that undergraduates develop essential skills—such as critical thinking, communication, and problem solving—and a deep understanding of the human condition, plus in-depth knowledge and skills in their chosen field. At IU, you’re a member of a community of high achievers and hard workers who want to change the world. What amazing things will you do here? IU alumnus and Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul star Jonathan Banks is one of many high-profile alums who return to campus to teach classes, give lectures, and meet with students. Accomplished faculty who teach, mentor, and inspire Our faculty members are pioneers in their fields. They are researchers who identify and take on grand challenges facing society, and who make new discoveries all the time, often with students’ help. They are teachers who take pride in sharing their expertise. And they are mentors whose investment in your success is palpable in every class, one-on-one meeting, and work session. Debate foreign policy with Lee Hamilton, who served 34 years in the U.S. House of Representatives. Investigate the stigma of mental illness with renowned sociologist Bernice Pescosolido. Brainstorm best practices for data privacy with cybersecurity expert Fred Cate. Who will your mentor be? A tradition of innovation Our academic offerings are constantly evolving to meet new needs in the state, nation, and world and to prepare you for the careers of tomorrow. Recently we’ve created several new schools, including the IU Hamilton Lugar School of Global and International Studies, The Media School, and the IU Eskenazi School of Art, Architecture, and Design. We’ve expanded our online programs. And we’ve launched new programs, like intelligent systems engineering, in growing and in-demand fields. It’s a good time to be a Hoosier. An interdisciplinary approach to advancing knowledge and solving problems An IU education spans traditional boundaries. From our research to the Liberal Arts and Management Program to the Integrated Program in the Environment, our faculty members and students unite across disciplines because they recognize that big goals require diverse teams. No challenge is too big for us. That’s why we’re investing $300 million over five years in our most ambitious research program ever: Grand Challenges, which will develop transformative solutions for some of the planet’s most pressing problems.Learn about our Grand Challenges program The Academic Experience Degrees & Majors Schools Academic Opportunities Study Abroad Online Classes & Programs Schedule of Classes & Academic Calendar Academic Advising & Support Libraries Indiana University Bloomington social media channels Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Pinterest LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links Services Canvas One.IU AskIU Find Directory A-Z List Courses Campus Map Required Disclosures Library IU Bloomington Libraries IUCAT OneSearch@IU Resources Knowledge Base IT Services Faculty & Staff Resources Diversity Non-Discrimination Notice Protect IU Email About Email at IU Outlook Web Access INDIANA UNIVERSITY BLOOMINGTON 107 S. Indiana Avenue Bloomington, IN 47405-7000 Phone: 812-855-4848 Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University