Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home About : Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion alt="top of the University of Texas tower against a blue sky with clouds" Diversity & Inclusion Because diverse people, perspectives and ideas create an optimal learning and research environment, we strive to foster an inclusive, accessible and welcoming campus culture. UT's Campus Culture Our Commitment to Social Justice At the School of Information, we put human values at the heart of what we do. Those values include respecting each other by supporting diversity and inclusion, and are reflected in our commitment to provide a supportive environment for everyone who is (or wishes to become) part of our community. Diversity means different things to different people, but includes respect for others from various races, backgrounds, cultures, genders, orientations, socio-economic statuses, nationalities, religions, beliefs, abilities, and other visible and invisible aspects of what makes each person unique. Our commitment to inclusion demands that we embrace our differences, and draw upon the strength that engaging with diverse perspectives and experiences brings. We put human values at the heart of what we do. We are a community of scholars, and our scholarly dialogue is enriched when we are challenged to think in new ways about ourselves and others. At the School of Information, diversity and inclusion is not a check-box exercise that will be completed, but an ongoing commitment to seek out new voices and perspectives, to challenge ourselves to understand the viewpoints of others, to celebrate diversity, and to create a supportive environment for students, faculty, staff, friends, and colleagues. At those points in our journey where we fall short of this goal, we will learn from our mistakes and improve the School going forward. It is my good fortune to be the Dean of the iSchool, and my honor to welcome all who can enhance our community through your participation. Warm regards, Eric T. Meyer Mary R. Boyvey Chair, Louis T. Yule Regents Professor Dean of the iSchool Explore the iSchool Vision & Core Values History & Tradition News & Events Contact Us D&I Committee The iSchool's Diversity & Inclusion Committee is dedicated to increasing the school's diversity and creating an inclusive community that welcomes all students, staff, faculty, and friends. Meet the Committee Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz, Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion As Assistant Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI), Edgar Gómez-Cruz leads the iSchool’s effort to establish a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for our faculty, staff, students, and alumni. "DEI work is not only important but essential. While I am the iSchool’s first Assistant Dean for DEI, and I am ready to lead the way, the school’s DEI effort is not solely mine. We need all iSchoolers to become ambassadors, activists, and promoters of DEI—inside the classroom, the labs, within the university, and in our communities. We have important work ahead of us, tackling the possible imbalances, biases, and injustices that could still be present.” Read more about Gómez-Cruz's vision for DEI Resources iSchool Diversity & Inclusion Committee The D&I Committee is dedicated to increasing the iSchool's diversity and creating an inclusive community that welcomes all students, staff, faculty, and friends of the school. The Committee has created a Resource Guide for Students. iSchool Minority Liaison Officer Dr. Edgar Gómez-Cruz is the iSchool’s faculty Minority Liaison Officer. He is available for students to discuss issues in the school or challenges that they face, to assist faculty in planning course materials, and to help coordinate and promote community events. Gender & Sexual Identity The Gender and Sexuality Center (GSC) provides opportunities for all members of the UT Austin community to explore, organize, and promote learning around issues of gender and sexuality. Resource Guides Lavender Graduation Disability Resources The university is dedicated to making our learning environment inclusive, accessible, and welcoming for all members of our community. Services for Students with Disabilities International Students UT is home to one of the largest international academic communities in the country. International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) provides an array of services, including advising appointments to address personal immigration, employment, health insurance and tax regulations. Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Resources The University of Texas at Austin is committed to creating and maintaining an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual harassment, sex discrimination, exploitation and intimidation where all students, faculty, and staff can learn, work and thrive. Graduate Student Parental Leave The iSchool offers several types of accommodations for graduate students with growing families to aid in balancing their scholarly and parenting responsibilities. Graduate Student Parental Accomodation Request Form Division of Diversity and Community Engagement The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement (DDCE) works with a broad range of student, faculty, staff, and community constituents to help The University of Texas at Austin connect its intellectual resources to communities across Texas and offer education to those who may face the greatest challenges in accessing it. The Division focuses on four core pillars: campus culture, community engagement, education pipeline, and research. Inclusive Campus Support Inclusive Campus Support provides an online anonymous mechanism for university community members to share their campus climate experiences that are helpful and/or concerning. Peer support is provided through consult without referral (unless required by law such as Title IX) and through sharing university/community resources. Report a Campus Climate Experience / Request Support Indigenous Land Acknowledgement We acknowledge that the iSchool sits on indigenous land. The Tonkawa lived in central Texas and the Comanche and Apache moved through this area. Today, various indigenous peoples from all over the globe visit Austin and/or call it home. We are grateful to be able to study and learn on this piece of Turtle Island. UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022