Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Featured News Silk layer improves function of surgical masks May 24, 2022 University of Cincinnati biologists found that a double layer of silk in combination with a surgical mask can enhance its ability to prevent the spread of viruses like COVID-19. WVXU: Scientists track next virus down to ZIP code May 23, 2022 UC College of Engineering and Applied Science professor Manish Kumar is working with Cincinnati Children's Hospital and the University of Dayton on new predictive models for tracking the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19. Spectrum News: Doctors explain high COVID-19 death rate despite... May 19, 2022 With the United States recently hitting one million COVID-19 deaths, many are wondering why there have been so many deaths despite having a higher than average vaccination rate. Medical professionals explained the current climate of COVID-19 in the hospitals and area communities. One of the experts interviewed for a story posted by Spectrum News was Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Debug Query for this Latest News Keyword topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove Silk layer improves function of surgical masks May 24, 2022 University of Cincinnati biologists found that a double layer of silk in combination with a surgical mask can enhance its ability to prevent the spread of viruses like COVID-19. WVXU: Scientists track next virus down to ZIP code May 23, 2022 UC College of Engineering and Applied Science professor Manish Kumar is working with Cincinnati Children's Hospital and the University of Dayton on new predictive models for tracking the spread of infectious diseases like COVID-19. Spectrum News: Doctors explain high COVID-19 death rate despite... May 19, 2022 With the United States recently hitting one million COVID-19 deaths, many are wondering why there have been so many deaths despite having a higher than average vaccination rate. Medical professionals explained the current climate of COVID-19 in the hospitals and area communities. One of the experts interviewed for a story posted by Spectrum News was Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Scientific American: Is it COVID-19 or is it allergies? May 11, 2022 Ahmad Sedaghat, MD, PhD, associate professor and director of the Division of Rhinology, Allergy and Anterior Skull Base Surgery in the UC College of Medicine was interviewed for a story published by Scientific American on the differences between allergies and COVID-19. Medscape: Analysis boosts Fluvoxamine for COVID, but what's the... April 14, 2022 A report published recently in JAMA Open Network finds there's a strong likelihood that the antidepressant fluvoxamine (Luvox) may moderately lower rates of hospitalization due to COVID-19 in unvaccinated patients. However, outside experts cited by Medscape differ over whether the evidence from just three studies is strong enough to warrant adding the drug to the COVID-19 armamentarium. One of those experts sources is Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. Cincinnati.com: Greater Cincinnati lags in COVID-19 vaccines.... April 4, 2022 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is updating its recommendations to allow certain immunocompromised individuals and people over 50 to be eligible for another COVID-19 booster if four months have passed since their first. Cincinnati.com talked to several local experts for the story, including Louito Edje, MD, associate dean for graduate medical education at the UC College of Medicine. AANP President: NPs have proven their value, so let's update... March 31, 2022 April Kapu, president of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners, advocated for full practice authority in all states during a webinar hosted by UC College of Nursing. UC research shows renewed promise for COVID-19 convalescent... March 31, 2022 Research from UC shows renewed hope in reducing hospitalizations from COVID-19 through the use of convalescent plasma when given early in the disease course. The study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. HuffPost: Is there any way to reduce your risk of long COVID if... March 21, 2022 Since the start of the pandemic two years ago, it’s become more and more difficult to avoid COVID-19, especially as the virus has mutated to become more contagious. We know that high-quality masks help and vaccination drastically reduces our odds of contracting the coronavirus and developing serious illness. But given the nature of extremely contagious respiratory viruses such as SARS-CoV-2, infectious disease specialists say that most of us will, at some point, get infected. And as the reality of living with endemic COVID sets in, many of us have grown increasingly concerned about getting long COVID if and when that infection occurs. In a story on long COVID posted by HuffPost, Richard Becker, MD, professor and director, UC Heart, Lung and Vascular Institute and UC Division of Cardiovascular Health and Disease at the UC College of Medicine was one of the experts cited. Cincinnati.com: The COVID-19 virus isn't gone, but rules have... March 18, 2022 With COVID-19 cases declining, some school districts in the Cincinnati region are no longer requiring masks to be worn in class. The Ohio Department of Health announced recently that it would end daily reporting of COVID-19 cases. In a story published by Cincinnati.com, several local infectious disease experts were asked about a variety of practices as society emerges from the pandemic. One of the sources was Jennifer Forrester, MD, and another was Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, both of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine. WVXU: Immunocompromised patients navigate new maskless... March 17, 2022 WVXU featured the University of Cincinnati's Dr. Tahir Latif in a news story about how immunocompromised people are navigating life with most mask guidelines being lifted. USA Today: Lawmakers push legislation to protect doctors who... March 14, 2022 Jennifer Bard, PhD, professor in UC’s Colleges of Law and Medicine, spoke with USA Today about efforts in state legislatures to offer protections for physicians who prescribe ivermectin to treat COVID-19. WVXU: Recounting the similarities between the 1918 influenza... March 9, 2022 COVID-19 first entered the public consciousness about two years ago. It drew a lot of comparisons to another pandemic just over a hundred years earlier. WVXU interviewed Carl Fichtenbaum, MD, of the Division of Infectious Diseases at the UC College of Medicine to learn more about how the COVID-19 outbreak compares with the 1918 influenza outbreak. Local 12: Gun violence and mental health March 7, 2022 Local 12 featured Dr. Maria Espinola in a story on the connection between gun violence and mental health. COVID meets creative clinical March 3, 2022 UC's Nursing + Design Collaborative creates interprofessional opportunities for innovation for students in the colleges of nursing and DAAP. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top