By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Stories Inclusion and Service Azarius Williams Embraces the Principles of Inclusion and Service The Remembrance Scholar promotes philanthropic and service-oriented values on campus, and his Orange pride is evident in his pursuit of experiential learning opportunities through community engagement. When Azarius Williams was nominated for a Posse Scholarship by his high school guidance counselor, he listed Syracuse University as his top choice. “Honestly, I didn’t envision myself pursuing higher education because I thought it wasn’t financially feasible,” says the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, native. “From a very young age, I had to take responsibility. My leadership skills were borne out of a necessity to survive and change my circumstances.” The Posse Scholarship identifies and recruits public high school students with extraordinary academic and leadership potential who may be overlooked by traditional college selection processes. Multicultural “posses” of 10 students are sent to partner colleges and universities around the country and receive full-tuition scholarships. “Posse is ‘golden ticket,’” Williams says. “It has given me entry and supported me throughout this educational journey.” Williams is a senior with a double major in finance ( Whitman School of Management ) and sociology ( College of Arts and Sciences / Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs ). He is also an Our Time Has Come Scholar, Ronald E. McNair Scholar, and Global Ambassador for Syracuse Abroad . Perhaps his most meaningful honor is being a Remembrance Scholar representing Scott Cory. “Scott’s jovial and infectious spirit has inspired me,” he says. “Joy is the highlight of the human experience.” Choosing to major in finance was motivated by a desire to escape generational poverty, Williams admits. “In understanding this, I began looking for another major that aligned with my passion for social justice,” he says. “I added sociology to give myself more career options.” He is considering graduate study in sociology or international relations, inspired by a “life-changing” Syracuse Abroad experience in Hong Kong. Membership in the Forever Orange Student Alumni Council helps Williams promote philanthropic and service-oriented values on campus, and his Orange pride is evident in his pursuit of experiential learning opportunities through community engagement. “I volunteer through the Center for Community Alternatives, which promotes reintegrative justice,” Williams explains. “Every Monday I go to the Onondaga Justice Center to facilitate activities for incarcerated youth. It’s been nothing short of incredible.” Also of Interest Link InclusiveU Link InclusiveU brings students of all ages with intellectual and developmental disabilities who want to experience college life in a fully inclusive setting to Syracuse University. Syracuse University Scholarships Link The Remembrance Scholar promotes philanthropic and service-oriented values on campus and his Orange pride is evident in his pursuit of experiential learning opportunities through community engagement Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy