Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH University Marketing & Communication Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search UMACOpen main menu Close Open search Home Areas Close Areas Strategic Communications Strategic Marketing Digital Strategy & Analytics Trademark & Licensing Brand Media Contact Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU Strategic Communications The Strategic Communications team provides news and information about university research, academic affairs, and student life. The team also serves as the primary resource for the media, including for coordination of subject matter experts, photography recourses, B-roll, and facilities access, as well as for information during an emergency or crisis. For the latest news from the university, visit Utah State Today and subscribe to get university news in your email inbox weekly. Request Records The Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA), Utah Code section 63G-2-101 et seq., is Utah's open records law and the state equivalent of the federal Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). Through GRAMA, the public may request access to certain records maintained by the university. GRAMA requests are coordinated through the Office of Legal Affairs. Submit a records request. Crisis Communications USU sends important information about crimes on campus, threats to safety, and emergencies through USU Alerts. All alerts are sent through USU's campus alert system, which includes text to cell phones, email, and push alerts through the Utah State Safe App. Those who are not members of the university community may sign up for text alerts or download the app to receive the same alerts. For general inquiries Email: ucom@usu.edu Hours of operation: Monday – Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., except state and federal holidays Location: Public Relations Building Mailing address: Utah State University | Media Relations 0500 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-0500 In the event of a campus emergency Visit https://www.usu.edu/emergency Contacts Amanda DeRito Associate Vice President Strategic Communications (University Spokesperson) Email: amanda.derito@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-2759 Cell: (208) 881-3943 Emilie Wheeler News Director Email: emilie.wheeler@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-0744 Cell: (435) 764-1358 USU in the news More News Quick Links MediaUtah State TodayUtah State MagazineSubmit a GRAMA RequestUSU Emergency Page FOLLOW US USU Facebook USU Twitter USU YouTube USU Instagram USU LinkedIn Old Main Hill, Logan, UT 84322 (435) 797-1000 ABOUT USU Contact Quick Facts News For Media Career EDUCATION Find a Degree Colleges & Schools Graduate School USU Online Statewide Campuses RESOURCES Academic Calendar University Catalog Library Canvas IT Service Desk Quick Links Directory Events Visit Campus Maps Giving Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page