Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Getting Started Make an Appointment Make an Appointment Expand all Collapse all Schedule an Appointment Counseling and Psychological Services New patient or returning after six months Students who wish to schedule an appointment with CPS for the first time and those who are returning to CPS after a break of more than six months may schedule an initial Treatment Planning session through the Patient Portal or by calling 212-854-2878. Currently or recently seen at CPS Students who currently or recently have been seen at CPS may schedule a follow-up appointment by calling 212-854-2878. Follow-up appointments cannot be scheduled online. Follow-up appointments are available in-person on the Columbia campus or by mutual agreement by telehealth via Zoom or phone. Telehealth sessions with CPS providers are generally available only to students currently situated in New York State. Students seeking counseling services who are unable to reach campus for appointments and who currently reside outside New York State may arrange telehealth visits with our partner agency, WorkPlace Options. Log on to the website by using the student code: "Columbia University." In addition, CPS is offering virtual support spaces open to any student, anywhere. We also invite students to utilize the broad range of online coping tools available. Medical Services Schedule a Clinical Appointment Online at secure.health.columbia.edu (same day only) By phone at 212-854-7426 Our goal is to make most appointments available on the same day. In some situations it may be more appropriate to make appointments a day or more in ahead. Advance appointments (not same day) can be made via phone. Same Day Nursing Appointments Some vaccines, tuberculosis skin tests, or pregnancy screenings are offered through same day nursing visits. If you've been seen before, many appointments with a registered nurse can be handled on a same-day basis. Please contact Medical Services at 212-854-7426 to ensure we can accommodate your schedule. If you've not been seen before, please schedule a clinical appointment to establish care. Urgent or Immediate Assistance During clinic hours, call 212-854-7426 for a nurse consultation. After hours, or on weekends or University holidays, call 212-854-7426 for 24/7 support. In an emergency, call CUEMS/Public Safety at 212-854-5555 if you are on or near campus, or dial 911 if you are off-campus. Allergy Injections For allergy injections, call 212-854-7426 to schedule an appointment for an initial assessment. Subsequent visits will be scheduled in advance for you after your initial visit. Tobacco Cessation Tobacco cessation appointments can be scheduled on-line with a tobacco cessation counselor. Travel Medicine To schedule an appointment please email [email protected] with your destination(s) and travel date. To protect your privacy do NOT include any personal health information in your email appointment request. Alice! Health Promotion Alice! Health Promotion staff are available to talk with students 1:1 about their health questions and how to access resources. Alice! is a confidential resource and the staff respect and protect the privacy of all conversations. Conversations are solution-oriented and not about therapy or giving medical advice — rather, they are meant to help connect students with information and resources to make informed decisions regarding a broad range of health-related topics. Examples of 1:1 conversations include, but not limited to: Accessing resources regarding coping with stress Strategies to improve sleep quality Strategies to improve time management Concerns regarding a friend’s alcohol or other drug use Communication strategies to support a friend Finding reputable resources to better understand a new medical diagnosis Understanding the range of birth control and safer sex options Spring 2022 schedule: 1/18/2022 – 4/29/2022 Virtual appointments available by request: Monday - Friday | 11 AM – 7 PM Virtual drop-in hours: Tuesday & Wednesday | 5 PM – 7 PM Summer schedule: 5/2/2022 – 9/5/2022 Virtual appointments available by request: Monday - Friday | 11 AM – 7 PM Email us at [email protected] to request an appointment. In your email, include 2-3 days/times that you are available during service hours. We will accommodate in person appointments, if requested. Seeking more immediate support? Attend virtual drop-in hours Tuesdays & Wednesdays from 5 PM – 7PM. **Note: No drop-in hours during summer sessions.** Questions? Email us at [email protected] BASICS To get started with BASICS alcohol screening complete the online self-assessment. If you have questions or difficulty accessing the self-assessment call us at 212-854-5453 or email [email protected]. *To protect student privacy and comply with state and federal legislation, individual discussions cannot be facilitated via email or social media platforms. Disability Services Whether you are registered with Disability Services or considering it, we welcome you to meet with a staff member. Contact us at 212-854-2388 to schedule an appointment with a coordinator, learning specialist, or assistive technology specialist. You do not need an appointment to pick up or submit disability forms. All forms are located in the Resource Library. Prospective students and others visiting campus should contact Disability Services to arrange accommodations for your visit or to schedule an appointment to meet with a staff member to learn more about our services. If you’re already registered with Disability Services Contact your coordinator directly with questions or concerns. If your coordinator is unavailable and the matter is urgent, you can attend drop-in hours. Call us at 212-854-2388 or email [email protected]. Not registered with Disability Services? You can still take make an appointment to talk with us: To learn more about how to register To discuss the services and accommodations we offer If you suspect you have a disability If you were referred to us Call us at 212-854-2388 or email [email protected]. Schedule an appointment at the CUIMC campus Contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 or visit the Student Health on Haven website. Sexual Violence Response Make a virtual or in-person appointment with a professional or peer advocate at Sexual Violence Response by calling 212-854-HELP (4357) (24/7) or 212-854-3500 during regular business hours. Student Health Insurance To make an appointment with one of our health insurance specialists, please call 212-854-3286. Tobacco Cessation Columbia students can meet with a tobacco cessation specialist, who will provide individual support and help students understand the process of quitting along with developing a personal plan to stop using tobacco. The program offers behavioral and pharmacological support, including meeting with a cessation specialist, prescriptions for medications, and access to no-cost over-the-counter nicotine replacement products. The Columbia Student Medical Insurance Plan also provides coverage, including prescriptions, to assist students with quitting. Ending the use of tobacco can be a challenge, and Columbia Health is committed to providing support to students with this goal. Research shows that the earlier in life a person quits, the less difficult the process and the lesser an impact that tobacco use will have on their health. To learn more about stopping the use of tobacco for yourself or someone you know, schedule an appointment online at https://secure.health.columbia.edu/ Questions or Feedback? Contact us at 212-854-7426 with questions. You can also tell us what you think about our services or programs. Need help with weekend or late night distress? Check out our Coping Tools page for various digital services, mobile apps, and online resources outside our regular hours of operation. Our limited podcast series, Invisible and On Stage, provides an open conversation around racism-related stress, identity, and community, and the way they impact mental health. Listen now! The entire Columbia Health team, photographed in Lerner Hall. Click the image to see a larger version. Columbia Health Alice! Health Promotion Disability Services Counseling and Psychological Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Immunization Compliance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response All Columbia Health offices are closed on University Holidays. Annual Report Columbia Health Annual Report Stay Connected Receive important news and event info from Columbia Health Columbia Health Events Join us for workshops, panel discussions, skill-building opportunities, and other events! Accessibility Accommodations Columbia Health makes every effort to accommodate individuals with disabilities. If you require disability accommodations to attend an event sponsored by Columbia Health, or by the University, contact Disability Services at 212-854-2388 at least 10 days in advance of the event. 212-854-2284 [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close