Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Women's LAX community at Princeton turns out for 'Chris Sailer Day' tribute Princeton Athletics May 2, 2022, 2:12 p.m. Photo by Princeton Athletics-Sideline Photos With generations of alumni in the stands, the Princeton women's lacrosse team capped a storybook ending to the 2022 regular season Saturday with a 17-14 win over Yale for the Ivy League championship, followed by a tribute to Chris Sailer, who will retire at the end of the season after 36 years as head coach. The Ivy League title was her 16th with Princeton. For the 2022 squad, the usual pre-game walk over Streicker Bridge to Sherrerd Field turned into a mass of Orange and Black with 350-plus alumni of the program lining the path to '52 Stadium, along with family, friends and classmates. There were giveaways – posters, bobbleheads and t-shirts for the fans during the game and the league trophy for the Tigers after. Play video: Play Video: Chris Sailer tribute While the team never trailed in the game, they also were never truly comfortable until the final few minutes. A four-goal Princeton lead at halftime shrunk to just one 4:18 into the third quarter and was only two as the fourth quarter began. A McKenzie Blake goal with 1:21 to play, assisted by Kyla Sears, regained a four-goal lead for the Tigers and allowed the Princeton portion of the 1,223 fans in attendance to officially start the celebration. First, the Ivy League trophy was presented to Princeton for the seventh season in a row and 16th time overall. Up next was Senior Day for the 10 members of the Class of 2022, who had just finished hoisting their third Ivy League championship. Finally, a smiling army of women inspired by Sailer during her decades as head coach formed a spirit tunnel to honor their mentor. High fives and hugs came at her from all directions as she made her way down that path. First she encountered the LAX alums who had helped her form the identity of the program. Next was the current team, who had rallied to ensure that this day – and this final season for Sailer – was highlighted with a championship. Then came her family, who had been with her throughout her storied scholastic and collegiate career, her three NCAA championships and everything in between. “I want to thank my team for making this a highlight,” she said in a short speech afterward. “I’ve just been so grateful and humbled and honored to be your coach and to coach here at Princeton for such a long time. “It’s in my heart. You all are in my heart,” she said. “This is a day I’m always going to remember.” Related Stories Bonfire crowds celebrate football wins and a 're-ignition of community' at Princeton this fall Read more Princeton seniors awarded for achievements in athletics, academics, leadership Read more Winter athletes enjoy record-breaking success Read more Students honored for leadership and service at 2022 Class Day Read more Princeton basketball teams reach NCAAs, make school history Read more The Athlete and Inventor Read more Bonfire celebrates Princeton football’s wins over Harvard, Yale and perfect season Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice