COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW TRIO Student Support Services Section Menu SSS Home Page About TRIO Student Support Services Current SSS Students Prospective SSS Students SSS Success Outcomes Student Resources SSS News and Events Employments SSS Staff Spring 2021 Scholarship Recipients Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Student Support Services (SSS) is a federally funded program through the U.S. Department of Education. The program is funded to provide services to students from first generation and limited income families as well as students with disabilities. Interested in SSS? Contact Us Call us from 8am - 5pm Monday through Friday on 316-978-3715 Email Us Social Media Check out our social media to stay up to date on services and events happening with SSS! Facebook lnstagram Current SSS Students Prospective SSS Students Student Resources SSS News & Events SSS Success Outcomes Employment SSS Staff Contact Us Social Justice, Diversity, and Equity Through Retention and Graduation Social Justice is not a subject matter in the ways that Math, Biology, Social Studies, Literature, etc., are subjects. Social Justice is a way of seeing the world no matter your area of interest or future career goals. Learn More Voices From The Field Caitlin Nolen " SSS helped me by providing me with scholarships to afford to go to school and not have to worry as much about financials. I am good at school, but if I did not have the fantastic tutors, SSS provided I would not have been graduating with magna cum laude." Suriya Prakash " I specially wanted to thank TRIO Student Support Services for offering me an opportunity to work on campus and helping me to improve both professionally and academically. Since I must move on to the next phase of my life after graduation, I decided to accept an offer to work as an Area Manager for Walmart and continue to learn more in supply chain and process engineering. Lastly, I wanted to thank Dr. Rhone, Mrs. Wright and Mrs. Martinez for constant support and positivity." Tabatha Cruz "I have been a part of SSS in some way since my freshman year of college. I began working for SSS here at WSU as a student assistant in 2018. I have loved being able to assist other first generation students in their journey to success and graduation." Want to be featured? Send us an email at trio.sss@wichita.edu with a headshot and a testimony about your experience with SSS! Connect with your Advisor Dr. Linda F. Rhone Project Director, Founder of the Kansas Teacher Inquiry Group (KTIG), Social Justice Workshop Faculty - Friends University linda.rhone@wichita.edu 316-978-7447 Karen L. Wright Assistant Director, Tutor Coordinator & Academic Advisor karen.wright@wichita.edu 316-978-7478 Chelsea Martinez Communications, Marketing, & Academic Advising Specialist chelsea.martinez@wichita.edu 316-978-5950 Graduate Assistants Prajakta Iasanpure Graduate Assistant, Database/Advising pxlasanpure@shockers.wichita.edu 316-978-5931 Indu Priya Chavva Graduate Assistant, Database/Advising ixchavva@shockers.wichita.edu 316-978-5951 TRIO Student Support Services Your Graduation is Our Goal! The primary goal of SSS is to help transition, retain and graduate disadvantaged college students. The program provides a variety of academic support services that include individualized tutoring, success skill development, course planning and advising. About Us FAQ 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©