Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Marketing + Communications Marketing + Communications right arrow down arrow Creative + Brand right arrow down arrow Photo + Video right arrow down arrow Photocatalog Brand + Design right arrow down arrow University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Digital + User Experience right arrow down arrow Analytics Web (AEM) right arrow down arrow Accessibility Digital Governance right arrow down arrow DNS Requests Web Policy AEM User Guide right arrow down arrow Getting Started in AEM Sites Console Creating Pages Editing Pages Advanced Tips & Tricks News Social right arrow down arrow Social Media Policy Social Media Strategy Social Media Account Request Form Social Media Content Request Form Social Media Feedback Form Social Media Ambassador Program Marketing + Advertising Media + Content right arrow down arrow UC News UC Magazine Media Contacts Resources right arrow down arrow Push Forward Push Forward Toolkit Contact Home » About UC » Marketing + Communications » Creative + Brand » Photo + Video » Photocatalog Set Navigation title in component Photo + Video Photocatalog Brand + Design University Brand Guide Brand Guide for Digital Use Brand Resources Photocatalog Browse our photocatalog for high-quality stock images that tell the University of Cincinnati's story -- on campus, in our city and around the world. Photocatalog FAQs Do I need an account to browse? right arrow down arrow No; anyone can browse over 2,000 of our favorite images, with more being added each week. If you’re not able to find what you’re looking for, don’t worry! The full collection contains more than a million images! Contact us and we’ll create an account that matches your needs. How do I search? right arrow down arrow There are several ways to find images, including browsing Categories and Keywords, and typing search terms into the Quicksearch bar. Categories and Keywords appear on the left, under “Containers.” (You may need to select a Catalog first, depending on your account settings.) Every job we shoot is filed into the Category it best fits. Individual images may be assigned Keywords as they are visually appropriate. So, every photo shoot is assigned to one Category, but individual photographs can be given one, multiple, or no Keywords. Use the Quicksearch bar to search the name or description of a photo. Typing two words in the search bar will show results that contain either word. You can use some common search techniques to help refine your results, for example: Searching bearcat statue finds results with both bearcat and statue Searching “bearcat statue” finds results with the exact phrase bearcat statue Searching bearcat || statue (pipe symbol above the Return key) finds results with either bearcat or statue bearcat Searching -statue finds results with bearcat but not statue Tip: Our filenames start with the date the photo was shot (YYMMDD). So if you’re looking for images from the Fall 2016 Commencement, and you know it occurred on December 9th, 2016, try searching for 161209. You’ll see all the photos taken on that day. The image is too small. How do I make it bigger? right arrow down arrow You can change thumbnail size by clicking on the grid icon with the letter S, M, or L. This will change between Small, Medium, and Large thumbnails. There are two ways to preview an image: click on the image itself, or click on the eyeball icon. Clicking on the eyeball icon will take you to the Preview mode. From there, you can scroll through the images on the left, or use your keyboard left and right keys to cycle through images. University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati Edwards 2, Suite 3300 Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-3001 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top