Skip to main content Navigation Academics Admissions Research Locations Student Life Alumni & Giving Athletics Apply Now College of Graduate Studies The College of Graduate Studies — which enrolls more than 8,000 students in more than a hundred doctoral, specialist, and master’s degree programs — provides leadership to support a culture of academic excellence. With these advanced degrees, our graduates become leaders in their professional fields and enhance the quality of life for all through innovative research. graduate.ucf.edu The Princeton Review ranks the Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy video game design graduate program #2 in the U.S. UCF is ranked 22nd in the country for Technology Transfer. UCF engineering programs ranked among 46 public universities according to U.S. News & World Report. The college enrolls 12 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) students. 22 UCF graduate programs are ranked among the top 100 by U.S. News & World Report. 14 Fulbright Scholars from around the world choose UCF graduate programs to do their research. Explore your opportunities. There are many benefits to taking a more proactive approach to choosing a career. The College of Graduate Studies has curriculum and programs to help you land your next opportunity. Or browse by: Masters Graduate Certificates Top College Degrees Top College Degrees Optics and Photonics (PhD) Biomedical Sciences (MS) Criminal Justice (PhD) Nursing (PhD) Counselor Education (MA) Business Administration (PhD) Nonprofit Management (MNM) Graduate Assistantships Graduate Fellowships Pathways to Success workshops program Admissions Info Explore admissions requirements, deadlines, tuition and financial aid, and more. Visit UCF Take a tour of the campus and see what makes UCF so amazing. Apply Now Seeking a bachelor’s degree? Interested in graduate school? Get started today. Graduate Studies News Check out more stories Business & Economy Limbitless Solutions Recognized as One of Florida’s Best Manufacturing Companies The UCF-based company is being honored with a Florida Sterling Manufacturing Business Excellence Award for its model operations. Student Life UCF Graduate Student Heads to Notre Dame for Tenure-track Position After Commencement Modeling and simulation doctoral student Karla Badillo-Urquiola ’14 ’15MS, says her family, UCF’s interdisciplinary programs, and her mentor were the winning formula for her success. Business & Economy Limbitless Solutions Sets Orlando Innovation Ecosystem on Fire The Orlando Business Journal honored the UCF-based organization with its 2022 Blazer Award for bringing the heat to Orlando’s innovation economy. Writing to Heal Whether it’s breaking the stigma of mental illness or overcoming childhood hardships, a UCF professor and her students are helping others heal through creative writing. Read More University of Central Florida Colleges Burnett Honors Arts and Humanities Business Community Innovation and Education Engineering and Computer Science Health Professions and Sciences Medicine Nursing Optics and Photonics Sciences Undergraduate Studies Hospitality Management University of Central Florida About UCF Contact Us Faculty Online Degrees Policies Privacy Notice Public Records Regulations Report a Concern UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 | 407.823.2000 © University of Central Florida