Skip to main content Menu Resources Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply or Give Apply Now Make a Gift Residency Classification Why is my Residency in Question? Initial residency classifications are based on the answers provided on the admission application. You indicated you were not an SC resident or left the question blank. Even if this was in error, you will have to go through the full residency process You indicated you are an SC resident, but you did not include a date for which you became a resident of the state. You would have to request a review of your Admissions file for the residency office to determine if a full application is required. You indicated you are an SC resident, but you have been in been in SC for 3 years or less. Anyone who has been in SC for less than 4 years must go through the residency process. You indicated you are an SC resident, but you list either an out of state address, out of state high school or out of state college. You will have to go through the full residency application process. You indicated you are not a US Citizen. You must go through the full residency process and provide copies of the Permanent Resident cards or valid visas. Clemson makes a residency decision based on SC state laws and regulations. The University is required to independently verify that all students meet these regulations to qualify for in-state tuition. Therefore, even if you have proven your residency at another institution, you will still have to go through the process here. This includes students who are in the Clemson Bridge program. Home First Year Students Transfer Students Residency Guidelines Military Residency Requirements Residency Checklist FAQ Contact Us Residency in Question What Happens Next? Related Links Student Financial Aid Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2022 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram