COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Pre-Medicine, Major MajorPre-Medicine All Programs Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Medical professional schools encourage students to develop the broadest academic base possible in undergraduate studies. Any undergraduate major may be used as background for entry. Pre-med students should take courses that develop disciplined thinking, intelligent appreciation of values and sympathetic understanding of society and human interaction. This background is necessary for chiropractic, dentistry, medicine, optometry, pharmacy, physical therapy, physician assistant, podiatry and veterinary medicine programs, as well as other programs in the medical field. Learn how Pre-Medicine is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Curriculum The prerequisites for medical professional programs vary by discipline. Some of the core foundation courses for most medical professions include: English Composition (English 101 and 102) Public Speaking (Comm 111) College Algebra, College Trigonometry, and / or Pre-Calculus General Chemistry (Chem 211 and 212) Organic Chemistry (Chem 531 and 532) Biochemistry (Chem 661 or 662, 663 and 664) General Biology (Biol 210 and 211) General College Physics (Phys 213 and 214 or 313 and 314 with labs) View the curriculum Careers A bachelor’s degree from Wichita State can open doors to advanced health care degrees and careers in many medical-related fields—from pharmaceutical research to family practice. Explore careers in this field Similar Programs Biomedical Engineering Biological Sciences Chemistry 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©