Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Accessibility Network Accessibility Network right arrow down arrow Getting Started right arrow down arrow About us Accessibility Commitment and Policy EIT Accessibility Plan FAQ's Accessibility 101 right arrow down arrow Accessibility Definitions Documents right arrow down arrow Microsoft Excel Accessibility right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint right arrow down arrow Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents right arrow down arrow Guides Checklist Tutorials Websites right arrow down arrow Headers Links Alt Text Color and Contrast Tables Forms Checklists Video & Media right arrow down arrow Ordering & Editing Auto Captions Ordering Professional Captions YouTube Studio Captioning Checklist Purchasing right arrow down arrow Procurement Policy Accessibility Review VPAT Software and Applications Checklist Canvas right arrow down arrow Ally for Canvas Course Syllabus Create an Accessible Canvas Course Checklist Training right arrow down arrow Digital Inclusion Day right arrow down arrow Call for Proposals Schedule of Events Registration Accessibility Compliance Training right arrow down arrow Request Enrollment - Accessibility Compliance Training Home » About UC » Electronic Accessibility » Documents Set Navigation title in component Microsoft Excel Accessibility Guides Checklist Tutorials Microsoft PowerPoint Checklist Tutorials Microsoft Word Guides Checklist Tutorials PDF Documents Guides Checklist Tutorials Documents Submit Request for Document Remediation By proactively designing materials, activities, and assessments that address a wide variety of students in our classrooms, we foster an environment where all students are empowered to succeed. Kimber Andrews, Assistant Director Center for Enhancement of Teaching and Learning Accessible Documents Digital documents can be shared broadly and are accessible for people who use assistive technology, like a screen reader. Using the built-in features like Headings and Alternative Text in Microsoft Word ensures low vision, blind, dyslexic or other people who use screen readers have the same access and experience as sighted viewers navigating your document. To learn more about how a person uses a screen reader to navigate a document, watch the video on Basic Assistive Technology Word Documents: A Demonstration. Principles of Accessibility for Digital Documents Below are key accessibility principles to incorporate in the creation of a digital documents including Word Documents, Power Point Presentations, and PDF’s. For more specific instructions on how to implement these principles into your digital documents, visit Word Documents, PowerPoint Documents and PDF Documents webpages. Use Headings to Structure Information Visual markers such as large and bold text are used to structure information and allow a reader to easily find the information they need. Using Headings and List Styles ensures a person using a screen reader can navigate the document with similar ease. For more information on how to use Headings and List Styles visit the Word Documents webpage. Use Descriptive Hyperlinks Sighted users visually scan pages for links to help them find what they're looking for. People using a screen reader can pull up a list of all the links on a page. However, if all the links on the list are “click here” it is not clear where the link will take them. Improve the accessibility of hyperlinks by embedding them in text and making them clear, concise, and meaningful out of context. For more information on how to use descriptive links visit the Word Documents webpage. Add Alternative Text to Images Alternative text is a description provided to a screen reader user which presents the content and function of the images within your content. Individuals using a screen reader may not be able to see the image on the screen, so a description of the image is read to the user. For more information on how to add Alternative Text to an image visit the Power Point webpages. Create Simple Tables Sighted users can visually scan a table and quickly make visual associations between data in the table and their appropriate row and/or column headers. To ensure a person using a screen reader has the contextual information such as what row and column a specific cell is referring to, make heading and row columns clear in the table. In addition, avoid using merged cells or using tables for layout purposes in a document. For more information on how to add Alternative Text to an image visit the Word Documents webpages. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top