Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Home About Graduate Program Initiatives People Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Site Navigation Home About Land Acknowledgment Programs History Nightingale-Brown House Richard Neutra's "Windshield" House Model Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Black Labor at Nightingale-Brown House Brochure: Slave Labor and the Making of the Nightingale-Brown House Doing Public Humanities Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan DIAP Summary Update 2019-2020 Year in Review Graduate Program M.A. Program Requirements Courses Practicums Past practicums Master's Theses Fellowships and Funding Tuition Scholarship & Other Funding Public History of Slavery Fellowship Native American & Indigenous Studies Fellowship Curatorial Fellowships City Year (Americorps) Agreement Graduate Certificate 5th-year M.A. Contacts Public Humanities Students Handbook Graduate School Handbook Forms and Resources Initiatives Conferences Exhibitions Gallery Publications Partnerships Digital Projects Suffrage in Rhode Island: A Lippitt Family Perspective Nightingale-Brown House Digital Tour Public Work: A Public Humanities Podcast Rhode Tour Public Humanities Blog Day of Public Humanities Brown FACADES App Year of the City: The Providence Project People Faculty & Staff Faculty Advisory Board Public Humanities Fellows Current Students Alumni Alumni Directory Alumni Interviews Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops Blog Conferences Upcoming Conferences Check back soon for new events. Past Conferences Mar 7 9:30am - 3:30pm Fifth Annual Hacking Heritage Unconference Silver Lake Community Center, 529 Plainfield Street, Providence, RI Hacking Heritage is a participant-led unconference that is open to anyone with an interest in exploring questions about community history, heritage and preservation together. This year, Hacking Heritage is moving off of Brown’s campus into Silver Lake. We encourage session discussions related to Silver Lake’s past, present and future — but propose a discussion about a topic that interests you whether it’s related to Silver Lake or not. And think outside of the box: sessions don’t need to follow any format. They can be discussions, but they can also be a space for collaboration on a new project with new partners, a community art-making workshop, or a group walk. It’s a great format for all kinds of participation, and you don’t have to propose anything to come. Learn more, register and propose a session on the event website: https://blogs.brown.edu/hackingheritageunconference/ Fifth Annual Hacking Heritage Unconference JNBC Conferences Apr 28 All Day Inheritance Symposium Inheritance brings together activists, curators, educators, tribal leaders, artists, historians, heritage workers, and policy makers to explore the range of strategies that institutions and communities are using to respond to contentious representations of race, Indigenous lifeways and history in public art and architecture. Over two days on Zoom, speakers from the US, UK and Canada will offer first-hand accounts of initiatives and actions that resulted in the removal, reinterpretation, or recontextualization of public and commemorative artworks, heritage sites and museum collections, while others will present on efforts to protect and preserve sites that have been ignored or under-resourced. We are in the midst of a reckoning, as communities seek to reshape how (and whose) history is told and commemorated in public space. This may entail radical changes to the art that hangs on our walls, the monuments in our public squares, and the stories that are told at historic sites as the public landscape that we have inherited continues to evolve. This symposium, organized by the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage, includes a mix of online and in-person events and opportunities over four days. In-person events at the Public Humanities Center include an artist’s talk and participatory performance with Haus of Glitter on Wednesday, April 27; an exhibition opening for Jazzmen Lee-Johnson’s Not Never More on Thursday, April 28; and an Unconference on Saturday, April 30. The symposium takes place on Zoom on Thursday, April 28 and Friday, April 29, with opportunities for audience conversation during breakout sessions at the end of each day. Please check the Program page for a detailed schedule of events. The symposium and all associated events are free and open to the public, but registration is required. Inheritance is made possible through a grant from the Terra Foundation for American Art. REGISTER HERE Inheritance Symposium JNBC Conferences Apr 28 6:30pm - 8:30pm Opening Reception for “Les Vues d’Amérique du Nord: Artists Respond” Nightingale-Brown House Please join us for a celebration of Jazzmen Lee-Johnson’s Not Never More (2022), a site-specific art installation on the ground floor of the Center for Public Humanities. Read more about the exhibition here. This event is free and open to the public, but registration is required. Opening Reception for “Les Vues d’Amérique du Nord: Artists Respond” JNBC Conferences, JNBC Exhibitions, JNBC Performances Apr 30 9:30am - 1:00pm Inheritance Unconference Nightingale-Brown House Following two days of presentations and breakout conversations on Zoom, the in-person Unconference offers participants to continue conversations, collaborative thinking and project planning in an open-ended format. The Unconference takes place at the Center for Public Humanities. There will be three sessions, with opportunities for participants to submit session ideas twice throughout the morning. An unconference is a participant-led day of conversations, collaborative thinking and collaborative doing. Session ideas all come directly from participants — you. Never been to an unconference before? Read about how it works here. This event is free and open to the public, but registration is required. Inheritance Unconference JNBC Conferences Events Conferences Exhibitions Lectures J. Carter Brown Architecture Lectures Performances Workshops John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage Brown University Box 1880 Nightingale Brown House 357 Benefit Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1177 Fax: 401-863-7777 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top