Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary COLLEGE OF BUILT ENVIRONMENTS ARCHITECTURE Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 ARCH 100 Introduction to Architecture Study (8) VLPA Introduces design studio instruction to students contemplating architecture as a field of study or career. Studio projects, informed by workshops, lectures, readings, field trips, and in-studio critiques introduce the history, theory, and practice of architecture. Includes instruction in basic design drawing and model making. Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 100 ARCH 101 Introduction to Architectural Studies (1) Provides an exposure to topics and methods of architectural education; explores educational and career opportunities; and outlines available student support resources. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 101 ARCH 150 Appreciation of Architecture I (3) VLPA Historical survey of global architecture and built environments with reference to environmental, technological, and socio-cultural contexts, from prehistory to 1400. For nonmajors. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 150 ARCH 151 Appreciation of Architecture II (3) VLPA Historical survey of global architecture and built environments with reference to environmental, technological, and socio-cultural contexts, from 1400 to the present. For nonmajors. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 151 ARCH 200 Architectural Design and Representation I (5) VLPA Introduces architectural representation as fundamental medium for investigation, analysis, and documentation of objects, processes, and architectural space. Consists of a series of investigative projects that introduce orthographic projection, axonometric, and perspective drawing, through which students develop comprehensive skills in hand-drawing and digital media. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 200 ARCH 201 Architectural Design and Representation II (5) VLPA Introduces the fundamentals of architectural design. Consists of a series of investigative projects that introduce principles of architectural design as well as concepts and skills in architectural and digital representation. Prerequisite: ARCH 200. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 201 ARCH 231 Making and Craft (5) VLPA Introduces the cultures and practical realities of "making" through study of the nature of tools, techniques, and the development of built culture over time. Examines the relationships of "making" to available materials, sources of energy and the development of infrastructure. Also covers qualities and characteristics of materials. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 231 ARCH 251 World Architecture Non-Western Cultures (5) VLPA/I&S Prakash Introduction to historical and contemporary built environments of non-Judeo-Christian civilizations, primarily Hindu, Buddhist, Islamic, and Meso-American, as manifestations of cultural history and as responses to environmental determinants. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 251 ARCH 300 Introduction to Architectural Design I (6) Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form. Prerequisite: ARCH 201. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 300 ARCH 301 Introduction to Architectural Design II (6) Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form. Prerequisite: ARCH 300. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 301 ARCH 302 Introduction to Architectural Design III (6) Studio problems to develop awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in the synthesis of building form. Prerequisite: ARCH 301. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 302 ARCH 303 Introduction to Design Studio I (6) Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 303 ARCH 304 Introduction to Design Studio II (6) Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields. Prerequisite: ARCH 303. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 304 ARCH 305 Introduction to Design Studio III (6) Studio problems to develop initial awareness, knowledge, and basic skills needed in synthesis of building form and integrative aspects of architectural design with emphasis on the dwelling place. Limited to students entering the graduate program in architecture with baccalaureate degrees in other fields. Prerequisite: ARCH 304. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 305 ARCH 310 Architectural Design Drawing I (3) Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 303 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 310 ARCH 311 Architectural Design Drawing II (3) Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 304 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 311 ARCH 312 Architectural Design Drawing III (3) Lectures, demonstrations, and exercises to develop skill in graphic visualization and representation as used in architecture. Concepts, conventions, and techniques of both freehand and technical drawing are used as a vital means to imagine, develop, and represent design ideas. Course material coordinated with ARCH 305 studio to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 312 ARCH 315 Design Drawing (2) Projects, lectures, demonstrations, and exercises coordinated with studio projects to integrate drawing in all phases of the design process. Lessons in diagramming of design concepts and planning and presenting design solutions. Prerequisite: ARCH 200; corequisite: ARCH 300. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 315 ARCH 320 Introduction to Structures I (3) Static - Force analysis; the study of external forces and force systems and their analytical solutions as applied to bodies at rest (equilibrium). Topic areas include beams, trusses, determinate frames, and load tracing. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 320 ARCH 321 Introduction to Structures II (3) Strength of materials; the study of the properties of materials and cross-sectional shapes of structural elements with respect to their effectiveness in resisting stresses. Topic areas include stress and strain, section properties, analysis and design of beams and columns. Prerequisite: ARCH 320. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 321 ARCH 322 Introduction to Structures III (3) Elementary structural design; synthesis of the previous structures coursework with applications to design of determinate timber and steel structures. Examination of forces on buildings: snow, live loads, wind, and earthquake. An introduction to concept of continuity. Prerequisite: ARCH 321. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 322 ARCH 323 Structures I (3) K. SIMONEN Covers the design of building structures utilizing the fundamental principles of statics and mechanics of materials. Includes the behavior of beams, trusses, arches, and frames; the structural performance of wood, steel, and concrete; and designing for gravity and lateral loads. First of a two-course sequence. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 323 ARCH 324 Structures II (3) K. SIMONEN Covers the design of building structures utilizing the fundamental principles of statics and mechanics of materials. Includes the behavior of beams, trusses, arches, and frames; the structural performance of wood, steel, and concrete; and designing for gravity and lateral loads. Second of a two-course sequence. Prerequisite: ARCH 323. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 324 ARCH 331 Energy and Building (3-5) NW Describes principles and applications of climate, energy use, and comfort as determinants of architectural form; architectural methods for climate adaptation using non-mechanical means of ventilating, cooling, heating, and lighting; and design and performance predictions for passive approaches to solar heating, heat transfer mechanisms, and strategies for climate- responsive design. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 331 ARCH 332 Making and Materials (3-5) VLPA Introduces the cultures and realities of making and materials through the study of how tools, materials, and cultures interact to produce our built environment at all scales. Includes substantial hands-on physical interactions with real tools and materials. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 332 ARCH 350 Architecture of the Ancient World (3/5) VLPA Architectural history in the Western world from beginnings to AD 550. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 350 ARCH 351 Architecture of the Medieval and Early Modern World (3/5) I&S/VLPA Surveys episodes in the history of world architecture during the period from about 700 to 1750. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 351 ARCH 352 History of Modern Architecture (3/5) VLPA Ochsner Architectural history in the Western world from 1750 to the present. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 352 ARCH 360 Introduction to Architectural Theory (3) Function of architectural theory in comprehending and ordering various human purposes in architecture, types of architectural purpose, and types of theories. Current concerns. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 360 ARCH 361 Architecture Colloquium (5) Introduces a wide range of perspectives on architecture, with an emphasis on history and theory, making and materials, and sustainable technologies. Emphasizes the skills of reading, analysis, communication, and writing in the discipline of architecture. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 361 ARCH 362 Architecture and Theory (3-5) Introduces a wide range of modern and contemporary theoretical movements in architecture. Emphasizes the basic skills of reading, critical inquiry, and communication. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 362 ARCH 380 Computers in Architecture (3) Laboratories, lecture, and demonstrations to introduce computing in environmental design and planning. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 380 ARCH 400 Architectural Design IV (6) Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture. Prerequisite: ARCH 302. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 400 ARCH 401 Architectural Design V (6) Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture. Prerequisite: ARCH 400. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 401 ARCH 402 Architectural Design VI (6) Offers studio problems in non-residential building design to advance the student's understanding of the ideas and technologies of architecture. Prerequisite: ARCH 401. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 402 ARCH 403 Architectural Problems (6) Offered: S. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 403 ARCH 404 Integrated Design/Build Studio (6) Study of the design/build process with emphasis on the synthesis of design and construction considerations. Focuses on developing design and construction concepts to meet program requirements specified in case studies. Offered: jointly with CM 404. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 404 ARCH 410 Introduction to Architectural Photography (3/5) VLPA Basic elements and processes of architectural photography to include camera controls, exposure technique, photo processing, and fundamental principles of photographing architecture. Student must provide own 35 mm (or larger) camera with manual operating controls. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 410 ARCH 413 Architectural Photography Projects (3) Students develop in-depth photo essays relating to architecture, the urban movement, or landscape design. Lectures, seminar, and discussion. Prerequisite: ARCH 410. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 413 ARCH 415 Architectural Sketching (3) Exercises in freehand representational drawing using charcoal, graphite, and conte crayon with emphasis on line, proportion, values, and composition. Studies progress from geometric to nongeometric forms. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 415 ARCH 418 Watercolor Drawing (3) Introduction to the principles and practice of using transparent watercolor for the naturalistic representation of objects, people, and interior and exterior space. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 418 ARCH 425 Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture (3) Explores use of life cycle assessment data and methods within design and construction practices to understand and reduce the environmental impact of buildings. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 425 ARCH 426 Structural Unit Masonry (3) Structural behavior and design of reinforced brick, tile, and unit concrete masonry structures. Prerequisite: CEE 377. Instructors: Tawresey Offered: jointly with CEE 455. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 426 ARCH 430 Materials and Processes (3) Lectures, field trips, and laboratory sessions directed toward the nature, potentials, and limitations of a variety of materials (wood, metal, plastics, inorganic cementing materials, minerals, rocks, and clay) and the processes involved with their production, fabrication, and system compatibility. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 430 ARCH 431 Environmental Control Principles (3) Daylighting of buildings, reducing noise and enhancing sound for communication, and regulating heat transfer for occupant thermal comfort; description of passive means for environmental control, including presentation of scientific explanations and design guidelines for utilizing these means; design guidelines are intended for use in the preliminary schematic design phase. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 431 ARCH 434 Color and Light (3) Lectures, demonstrations, exercises, and projects focusing on the use of color applied to the three-dimensional architectural context. Explores color theory with the multiple effects of changing light. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 434 ARCH 435 Principles and Practices of Environmental Lighting (3) Perception-based approach to principles of natural and artificial lighting. Practical considerations of lighting involving environmental evaluations, calculations, and the use of lamps and fixtures. Sketch and model studies for applications. Impact of lighting design on energy conservation. Relation of lighting design process to architectural design concepts. Prerequisite: either ARCH 331 or ARCH 431. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 435 ARCH 436 Building Acoustics (3) NW Description of principles and practices for manipulating and enhancing sound in buildings. Information about sound behavior and the organization of architectural elements (deployment of design features, including various geometries and materials) for the control of sound in enclosed spaces and between adjacent spaces. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 436 ARCH 439 Architectural Lighting Design (3) Concentrates on the use of electric lighting and its effective integration in architecture and the built environment. Includes site visits, demonstrations, lectures, and projects. Prerequisite: ARCH 435. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 439 ARCH 441 Visions of the Japanese House (3) Oshima Explores the origins, derivations, and permutations of the "Japanese house." Outlines underlying principles and paradigms of Japanese domesticity through history and traces its evolution through aspects ranging from the house's expression in media to its constructional materiality. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 441 ARCH 442 Africa and Middle East Seminar (3) VLPA McLaren Advanced introduction to colonial and postcolonial architecture in Africa and the Middle East, beginning with the initial European colonization in the mid-nineteenth century. Provides a historical understanding of the formation of distinctive regional and/or national identities in the architecture of these regions. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 442 ARCH 445 South Asian Architecture I (3) VLPA Prakash Advanced introduction to precolonial architecture and urbanism of South Asia. Using methodologies of culture studies, examines select Hindu, Buddhist, and Islamic case studies on a comparative genealogy. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 445 ARCH 446 South Asian Architecture II (3) VLPA Prakash Advanced introduction to colonial and postcolonial architecture and urbanism of South Asia. Using methodologies of culture studies, covers 1800 to present, emphasizing the years since India's independence in 1947. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 446 ARCH 452 History of Architecture in Seattle and Environs (3) I&S Ochsner Historical development of architecture in Seattle and surrounding areas from the nineteenth century to the present, also touching on issues of urban design and historic preservation. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 452 ARCH 453 Japanese Architecture (3) VLPA Survey of Japanese architecture from its origins to modern times. Although Shinto architecture, tea houses, gardens, and modern developments are discussed, the primary focus is on the development of Japanese Buddhist architecture. Offered: jointly with ART H 419. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 453 ARCH 455 American Architecture (3) American architecture from indigenous Native American traditions to the present. Offered: jointly with ART H 488. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 455 ARCH 457 Twentieth-Century Architecture (3) VLPA Architecture in the twentieth century, mainly in Europe and the United States. Traces roots of Modernism in Europe in the 1920s, its demise (largely in the United States) in the 1960s, and recent trends such as Post-Modernism and Deconstructivism. Offered: jointly with ART H 491. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 457 ARCH 458 Paris: Architecture and Urbanism (3/5) VLPA/I&S Spans the architectural history of Paris, from its Gallic, pre-Roman origins in the second century BCE through the work of twenty-first century architects. Focuses on changing patterns of the physical fabric of the city and its buildings, as seen within the context of the broader political, social, economic, and cultural history. Offered: jointly with ART H 494/JSIS A 433. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 458 ARCH 459 Architecture Since 1945 (3) VLPA Theories and forms in architecture from the end of World War II to present. Includes new wave Japanese architects, recent Native American developments, and non-Western as well as Western trends. Offered: jointly with ART H 493. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 459 ARCH 460 Design Theory and Analysis (3) VLPA/I&S Problematical nature of philosophies of architecture; interaction of philosophical concepts and architectural form and expression. Fundamentals of architectural criticism. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 460 ARCH 462 Spatial Composition in Architecture (3) Advanced introduction to compositional strategies in architecture. Drawing on a historical survey of the development of Western architecture, the seminar investigates different compositional strategies and their relationship to cultural values and systems of meaning. Intended as complement to the design studio. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 462 ARCH 466 Gender and Architecture (3) I&S/VLPA Examines gender in the experience, practice, and theory of architecture and urban space with a focus on modern typologies: skyscraper, home, convent, bachelor pad, street, and closet. Draws from architectural and art history, social studies, design practice and theory, comparative literature, film studies, and queer theory. Offered: jointly with GWSS 466. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 466 ARCH 468 Architecture Capstone Preparation (3) Preparation for the Architecture major capstone project. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 468 ARCH 469 Architecture Capstone (6) Development of the capstone project for the Architecture major. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 469 ARCH 475 Residential Architectural Practice (3) Lectures and exercises focused on the operation of a professional architectural practice specializing in residential and smaller-scale projects. Topics include: clients and program development, design strategies and space planning, site considerations, regulatory constraints, consultants, contractors, specialized construction methodology, and issues, ethics, and liability specific to residential project delivery. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 475 ARCH 478 CAD and Working Drawings (4) Intensive introduction to computer-aided design systems for developing construction documentation (working drawings). Lectures and exercises focus on learning the methodology for using CAD to efficiently prepare working drawings, as well as discussions regarding industry-recognized standards and current technology used in the preparation of documentation. Prerequisite: ARCH 380; CM 313. Offered: ASpS. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 478 ARCH 481 3D Modeling and Rendering (3) Lectures and weekly exercises focus on understanding and applying the underlying principles of 3D computer graphics and rendering software. Topics include user-interface, data creation and modeling, lighting models, smoothing, texture mapping, ray tracing, radiosity, animation, and solid modeling. Prerequisite: ARCH 380. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 481 ARCH 482 Web Weaving (3) VLPA B. Johnson Examines the function, limitations, and uses of primary web technologies and fundamental website design and implementation. Participants develop hands-on design/build expertise for website design, implementation, and maintenance, using readily available tools and techniques. Looks beyond today and explores emerging Internet technologies. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 482 ARCH 483 Design of Virtual Environments (3) Explores through a blend of technical exercises constructing computational artifacts, readings, and discussions of relevant literature, the possibilities of online virtual environments. Incorporates a term project or paper based on exercises and readings. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 483 ARCH 484 Design Computing Seminar (3) Weekly colloquium and discussion forum. Discusses design computing research and report on ongoing project progress, with demonstrations and guest speakers. Explores design computing, design thinking and design process, and inventing new computer-aided tools for design. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 484 ARCH 486 Algorithmic Geometry in Architectural Design (3) Introduction to design and implementation of parametric modeling of algorithmically generated geometries using computational elements and real-time computation. Introduces concepts related to computer programming, computational geometry, and 3D modeling with weekly exercises using 2D and 3D computer modeling frameworks, plus a term project. Requires significant amount of hands-on work. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 486 ARCH 487 Fundamentals of Building Information Modeling (3) Introduces students to building information modeling and associated software tools. Students learn the fundamentals of working with BIM software by developing a project using both 3D parametric modeling and the 2D documentation skills essential to communicating ideas effectively in professional practice. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 487 ARCH 489 Simulation Based Design (3) Focuses on computational simulation tools and techniques to evaluate the performance of a design or design alternatives, starting at earliest conceptual design phases to help architects make informed design decisions. Topics include solar, lighting, thermal, and acoustical analysis techniques and their applications. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 489 ARCH 490 Architectural Studies Abroad - Special Topics (*, max. 24) Department-approved, systematic study offered as part of architectural study abroad programs. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 490 ARCH 491 Architectural Studies Abroad - Representation (1-6, max. 12) VLPA Architectural sketching, drawing, modeling, and other presentation techniques in contexts outside the United States. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 491 ARCH 494 Architectural Studies Abroad - Culture (1-6, max. 12) VLPA Studies of language, art, food, music, and other activities that influence architectural and urban form in contexts outside the United States. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 494 ARCH 495 Architectural Studies Abroad - History and Theory (1-6, max. 12) VLPA/I&S Examines history and theory of architecture in study abroad programs. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 495 ARCH 496 Architectural Studies Abroad - Urban Fieldwork (1-6, max. 12) Analysis and interpretation of urban form and architectural contexts through direct observation in locations outside the United States. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 496 ARCH 497 Architectural Studies Abroad - International Practice (1-6, max. 12) Observation and evaluation of architectural practices in contexts outside the United States through firm visits and guest presentations. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 497 ARCH 498 Special Projects (1-12, max. 18) Instructor-initiated and department-approved systematic study and offering of specialized subject matter. Topics vary and are announced in preceding quarter. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 498 ARCH 499 Undergraduate Research (1-6, max. 6) View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 499 ARCH 500 Architectural Foundation Studio I (6) The first of a two-quarter sequence structured as a series of design exercises that will expose students to a diversity of methods, scales and program types. Studio problems will balance the acquisition of basic design and representation skills with the exploration of broad themes of space, dwelling, site and place. The studio work is closely coordinated with parallel Representation, Design Technology and History and Theory classes. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 500 ARCH 501 Architectural Foundation Studio II (6) The second of a two-quarter sequence structured as a series of design exercises that will expose students to a diversity of methods, scales and program types. Studio problems will balance the acquisition of basic design and representation skills with the exploration of broad themes of space, dwelling, site and place. The studio work is closely coordinated with parallel Representation, Design Technology and History and Theory classes. Prerequisite: ARCH 500 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 501 ARCH 502 Architectural Integration Studio I (6) The studio is structured as a first integrated design studio experience. It builds upon the first two quarters through integrating structural systems, building assemblies and environmental responses with broader design concerns. Through exploring a project in an urban context, the studio focuses on themes of community and society. The studio work is closely coordinated with parallel Design Technology and Materials and Assemblies classes. Prerequisite: ARCH 501 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 502 ARCH 503 Architectural Integration Studio II (6) The first of a two-quarter sequence structured for the development of integrative design skills. Studio problems explore the relationship between building, the public realm and place-making in an urban context and develop a building design as part of larger urban systems related to energy, ecology and mobility. The fall studio work is closely coordinated with parallel Design Technology, Urban Issues and Contemporary Theory classes. Prerequisite: ARCH 502 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 503 ARCH 504 Architectural Integration Studio III (6) The second of a two-quarter sequence structured for the development of integrative design skills. Studio problems explore the relationship between building, the public realm and place-making in an urban context and develop a building design as part of larger urban systems related to energy, ecology and mobility. The winter studio work is closely coordinated with parallel Design Technology, Site Ecology and Materials and Assemblies classes. Prerequisite: ARCH 503 Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 504 ARCH 505 Architectural Exploration Studio I (6, max. 12) The first of two advanced architectural design studios offers a variety of studio experiences on specialized topics. The studio builds upon technical knowledge and integrative design skills while placing a greater emphasis on experimentation and collaboration as well as design methodology. The studio combined with required Research Methods class will prepare students for either their final Research Studios or Independent Thesis. Prerequisite: ARCH 504. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 505 ARCH 506 Architectural Exploration Studio II (6, max. 12) The second of two advanced architectural design studios offers a variety of studio experiences on specialized topics. The studio builds upon technical knowledge and integrative design skills while placing a greater emphasis on experimentation and collaboration as well as design methodology. The studio combined with required Research Methods class will prepare students for either their final Research Studios or Independent Thesis. Prerequisite: ARCH 504. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 506 ARCH 507 Architectural Research Studio I (6, max. 12) The first of two architectural research studios structured for the integration of rigorous design-related research with a comprehensive project. Studios explore faculty generated topics on current interdisciplinary issues in the built environment in support of degree options in History, Theory and Criticism; Materials and Fabrication; and Sustainable Systems and Design. The studio is directly tied to a required Research Seminar class. Prerequisite: ARCH 506 and ARCH 592. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 507 ARCH 508 Architectural Research Studio II (6, max. 12) The second of two architectural research studios structured for the integration of rigorous design-related research with a comprehensive project. Studios explore faculty generated topics on current interdisciplinary issues in the built environment in support of degree options in History, Theory and Criticism; Materials and Fabrication; and Sustainable Systems and Design. The studio is directly tied to a required Research Seminar class. Prerequisite: ARCH 506 and ARCH 592. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 508 ARCH 510 Representation I (3) A. Anderson The first of a two-quarter sequence introduces representation techniques used in architectural design with an emphasis on hand-drawing fundamentals, two- and three-dimensional digital techniques, and architectural presentation strategies. It examines architectural representation as a medium for the investigation, documentation analysis and communication of architectural space. Assignments closely coordinated with parallel Foundation Studio. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 510 ARCH 511 Representation II (3) The second of a two-quarter sequence introduces representation techniques used in architectural design with an emphasis on hand-drawing fundamentals, two- and three-dimensional digital techniques, and architectural presentation strategies. It examines architectural representation as a medium for the investigation, documentation analysis and communication of architectural space. Assignments closely coordinated with parallel Foundation Studio. Prerequisite: ARCH 510 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 511 ARCH 512 Advanced Representation (3) Designed to take tools of architectural representation and introduce stylistic workflows and techniques to build visual narratives. Workshops focus on advanced 3D modeling, digital post processing, and hybrid techniques to blend digital and hand-drawing conventions. Illustrates how these tools can be efficiently used both for architectural representation and as an aid to design. Prerequisite: ARCH 511 or equivalent. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 512 ARCH 520 Design Technology I (3) J. Griggs, R. Pena Explores the way climate, place, materials, and tools shape buildings and affect both how to build and how to conceive of building human inhabitations. Examines relationships between technology and materials. Looks to both nature and traditional architecture for principles of climate adaptation, as well as tools and methods of building. Subjects developed through hands-on exercises in the fabrication lab. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 520 ARCH 521 Design Technology II (3) R. Pena, T. Sprague Establishes the fundamental relationships between forces of gravity, wind or earthquake loading and structural form; also influence of sun, wind, and light on architectural form. Drawing from first principles of statics, mechanics of materials, and heat transfer, explores force systems and their analytical solutions as applied to bodies at rest (statics), and to steady-state heat transfer. Prerequisite: ARCH 520 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 521 ARCH 522 Design Technology III (3) T. Sprague Relationships between forces of gravity, wind, or earthquake loading and structural form. Focuses on structural behavior of beams, trusses, arches and frames; structural performance of wood, steel and concrete; and design for gravity and lateral loads. Prerequisite: ARCH 521 Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 522 ARCH 523 Design Technology IV (3) Kate Simonen, Rob Pena Integration of structure, environmental systems, spatial organization and architectural form is the focus of this course. Lectures and workshops develop an understanding of structural material, element and system performance, architectural and mechanical systems for delivering fresh air, illumination, and thermal comfort, and an ability to integrate systems for efficient and elegant design. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 523 ARCH 524 Design Technology V (3) Focuses on computational simulation tools and techniques to evaluate the performance of an environmental system's design or design alternatives, starting at earliest conceptual design phases to help architects make informed design decisions. Prerequisite: ARCH 523. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 524 ARCH 525 Life Cycle Assessment and Architecture (3) Explores use of life cycle assessment data and methods within design and construction practices to understand and reduce the environmental impact of buildings. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 525 ARCH 526 Topics in High Performance Buildings (3) Addresses key dimensions to the design of high performance buildings including: energy efficiency; health and comfort; structures and materials; economic performance; and renewable energy systems. Includes faculty-led discussions and presentations by experts I the field. Students explore and refine research topics in high performance buildings. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 526 ARCH 527 Introduction to Digital Design and Fabrication (3) Offers an introduction to digital design and manufacturing technologies, with an emphasis on developing appropriate strategies for their use in design and architecture. Students learn to use digital design software and digitally enhanced fabrication tools to support their design strategies. Offered: AW. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 527 ARCH 528 Digital Design for Fabrication and Construction (3) Explores the rapid integration of fabrication, construction, and performance criteria early in the architectural design process, through the use of powerful digital tools. Students test advanced digital tools in architectural production and develop awareness and skills in integrated digital design, analysis, and prototyping. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 528 ARCH 529 Advanced Digital Projects (3) Advanced topics for students who have completed one or more design computing courses and wish to develop a project further. Prerequisite: either ARCH 527 or ARCH 528. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 529 ARCH 530 Integrated Building Systems (3) Miller Discusses strategies for ordering separate and discreet building systems into integrated architectural schemes. Focuses on systems that affect architectural expression and resolution in buildings including: structural, environmental control, materials, and assembly with an emphasis on sustainable building design. Concurrent with ARCH 502. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 530 ARCH 531 Active Control Systems for Building Operation (3) NW Electrical, mechanical (HVAC), plumbing, and fire safety systems for buildings. Descriptions of what these systems do, where they are used, how they are integrated into the overall building design; rules of thumb, design strategies, and short cuts for anticipating system design and use. Prerequisite: either ARCH 331 or ARCH 431. Instructors: Heerwagen Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 531 ARCH 532 Construction Materials and Assemblies II (3) Lectures and readings pertaining to a survey of materials, assemblies, and techniques of assembly of concrete and steel frame, commercial exterior envelope, and interior partitioning building construction systems. Prerequisite: either ARCH 332 or CM 313. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 532 ARCH 533 Advanced Environmental Systems (3) Focuses on computational simulation tools and techniques to evaluate the performance of a design or design alternatives, starting at earliest conceptual design phases to help architects make informed design decisions. Topics include solar, lighting, thermal, and acoustical analysis techniques and their applications. Offered: WSp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 533 ARCH 534 Green Technology (3) Heerwagen Examination and application of various resource-conserving building technologies, particularly within the context of the LEED Rating System. Principles and practices associated with the inclusion of these technologies in buildings. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 534 ARCH 535 Daylighting Design Seminar (3) Focuses on theoretical and applied daylighting principles in conjunction with physical and digital analytical tools. Includes field assessment of constructed buildings and individual projects involving research and design for lighting and daylighting. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 535 ARCH 536 Designing with Living Systems (3) Investigates an integrated approach to urban agriculture and building systems; looks at cyclical ecosystems intrinsically interconnected with buildings, urban infrastructure, and the constructed environment; establishes a thorough understanding of these productive, living systems, which are indispensable for architects and landscape architects in their pursuit of more sustainable design practices. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 536 ARCH 537 Traditional Building Methods: New Adaptations (3) Explores recent developments in traditional building techniques, a resurgence of interest in handmade buildings, and the use of local materials in building construction. Also examines why these materials and methods are becoming critical to communities around the world, and how they can be optimized to meet twenty-first century requirements. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 537 ARCH 538 Building Reuse Seminar: Investigating the Value of Existing Buildings (3) Investigates the repurposing of buildings as a resource and energy conservation strategy and as an alternative to demolition of existing buildings; discusses case study strategies for sustainable retrofits. Students critically observe, record, and analyze structures and discuss building reuse design in the context of sustainable environments. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 538 ARCH 541 Visions of the Japanese House (3) Explores the origins, derivations, and permutations of the "Japanese House." Outlines underlying principles and paradigms of Japanese domesticity through history and traces its evolution trough aspects ranging from the house's expression in media to its constructional materiality. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 541 ARCH 550 History and Theory of Architecture I (3) First half of a two course sequence that introduces architectural history and theory in coordination with design studio and design technology courses. This course explores geographically and chronologically diverse cultures and their built works in terms of social, technological, and environmental factors while linking aspects of human making and meaning. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 550 ARCH 551 History and Theory of Architecture II (3) L. Iarocci Second half of a two course sequence that introduces architectural history and theory in coordination with design studio and design technology courses. Starting from the Age of Discovery and continuing to the present day, this course intends to gain a deeper understanding of architecture as a product and producer of the environment, society and technology. Prerequisite: ARCH 550 Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 551 ARCH 556 The Arts and Crafts Movement and Its Legacies (3) Ochsner Historical development of the arts and crafts movement focusing primarily on its influence on American architecture from 1870 to the present. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 556 ARCH 557 History and Theory of Historic Preservation (3) Jeffrey Karl Ochsner National and international historic preservation, primarily from the late nineteenth century to the present. Fosters a critical understanding of preservation through consideration of texts from preservation, architecture, landscape architecture, anthropology, planning, and other fields. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 557 ARCH 558 Seminar in Twentieth-Century Architecture (3/5) Specific focus changes from quarter to quarter. Prerequisite: graduate standing with background in art history, architecture, architectural history, or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with ART H 591. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 558 ARCH 559 American Utilitarian Architecture (3) Significant American environmental design efforts arising from utilitarian needs, e.g., factories, bridges, skyscrapers, and associated technical building innovations. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 559 ARCH 560 Seminar on Architectural Theories (3) Recent developments in architectural theory, urban design theory, criticism, and the methodology of criticism. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 560 ARCH 561 Urban Design Theory (3) Study of development of nineteenth- and twentieth-century urban design theories and parallel developments in architecture and urban planning. Theoretical premises are related to current practices of urban design in various sociopolitical contexts, European as well as American. Evolutionary nature of theory emphasized. Prerequisite: URBDP 479 or permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 561 ARCH 562 Contemporary Architectural Theory (3) The course is structured as an advanced introduction to contemporary architectural theory, engaging topics that will prepare students for the challenges of today's global built environment. The intention is to foster a critical understanding of design practice through examining areas of contemporary theoretical focus in architecture and the built environment. It also prepares students for the subsequent Research Methods class. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 562 ARCH 563 Seminar in Architecture and Cultural Theory (3) Study of contemporary cultural studies and postcolonial writings in terms of their impact on architectural theory and practice. Topical seminar based on reading and individual research. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 563 ARCH 564 Environmental Design and Well-Being (3) Analyzes how environmental design can promote well-being in natural systems and human life worlds. Explores current knowledge about climate change and organism-environment dynamics, theories of health and complexity, ideological barriers and the power of images, new materials, and "high-tech"/"low-tech" alternatives for ecological design and planning. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 564 ARCH 567 Qualitative Research Methods (3) Qualitative research methods covering both the theoretical foundations and practical methodologies of traditional and innovative approaches, including cognitive mapping, open-ended interviews, ethnographic observation, hermeneutics, phenomenology, critical theory, communicative action, grass-roots empowerment, post-structuralism, and self organization. Offered: jointly with URBDP 519. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 567 ARCH 570 Design Development (3) Miller Lectures and case studies emphasizing the design development phase of architectural practice. Concurrent with ARCH 501. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 570 ARCH 571 Professional Practice (3-4) Introduces the business and ethics of architectural design and building construction, while helping students explore their professional identities and make intentional choices about their career paths. Compares fundamentals of architectural practice against historical evolution of the field and speculation about its future. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 571 ARCH 573 Sustainable Design Case Studies: Methodologies in Seattle's Professional Design Firms (3) Heather Burpee Studies sustainable design methodologies in Seattle professional design firms. Office visits and interviews of architecture and engineering practitioners highlight how high performance ideas and sustainable practices are implemented across various professional settings. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 573 ARCH 574 Design and Construction Law (3) Legal issues arising from design and construction services, focusing on risk management and liability awareness. Topical areas include basic legal doctrines, the design professional/client relationship, contractor selection, the construction process, and professional practice problems. Emphasis on Washington State law. Offered: jointly with CM 500; A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 574 ARCH 578 Case Studies in Contemporary Architectural Practice (3) Presentations and discussions by local architectural firms examining the issues that influence building design and project delivery in contemporary architectural practice. Focuses on understanding the issues as opportunities rather than impediments to good design. Class visits a different architectural firm each week for an in-depth review of current projects. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 578 ARCH 579 Technical Issues in Preservation Design (3) Issues, practices, and procedures involved in preservation and reuse of old and historic buildings. Technical and esthetic means by which practicing professionals approach the analysis, interpretation, and resolution of problems such work raises. Emphasis on recent and local projects and related experiences. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 579 ARCH 581 Advanced Rendering (3) Provides an in-depth discussion and hands-on experience with technical and qualitative features of computer rendering. Students learn to generate digital images that can mimic the physical world and predict the final appearance of a design. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 581 ARCH 582 Computational Lighting Design (3) Addresses the recent developments in lighting simulation, visualization, and per-pixel measurement techniques. Provides an understanding of the theoretical aspects of computer applications in lighting design; and the practical knowledge of tools that enhance the integration of the lighting analysis into architectural design processes. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 582 ARCH 587 Theory of Design Computing (3) Examines the relationship between theory of design and computational tools for practice. Explores how the emergence of computers as a mainstream tool in design has already changed architectural practice. Discusses how, as with other technologies that revolutionized the practice of architecture, information technologies carry hidden implications about design process and products. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 587 ARCH 588 Research Practice (3) Provides the opportunity for a guided preliminary exploration and refinement of a research topic, prior to thesis proposal. Weekly seminar meetings focus on student work with regular presentations and discussions. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 588 ARCH 590 Urban and Preservation Issues in Design (3) Introduction to recent theory and practice in the fields of urban design and historic preservation primarily in North American urban contexts, including examples of recent projects presented by practicing professionals. Concurrent with ARCH 500. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 590 ARCH 591 Architecture and Landscape (3) Advanced introduction to the relationships between buildings and places in the landscape with an emphasis on Western concepts of nature. A taxonomy of place as nature is developed. Explores ways in which the architect can design places that landscape taxonomy. Concurrent with ARCH 502. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 591 ARCH 592 Research Methods (3) Mehlika Inanici, Louisa M Iarocci Role and practice of research methods in architecture related to themes of product, process, and performance. Explores the idea of research as a practice unique to architecture in order to discover how innovative approaches and/or outcomes emerge from generating, reinterpreting, and/or rediscovering information from a critical and creative perspective. Offered: ASp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 592 ARCH 593 Architectural Research Seminar I (3, max. 6) The first of two seminars structured to directly support the research studios. Investigation of a research area integrated into the research studio's design work. Focus on research methods, analysis, interpretation, and representation of research findings. Tied to a section of Architectural Research Studio I. Prerequisite: ARCH 592. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 593 ARCH 594 Architectural Research Seminar II (3, max. 6) The second of two seminars structured to directly support the research studios. Investigation of a research area integrated into the research studio's design work. Focus on research methods, analysis, interpretation, and representation of research findings. Tied to a section of Architectural Research Studio II. Prerequisite: ARCH 592. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 594 ARCH 595 Thesis Research and Preparation (4) Develops skills for conducting master's thesis research, including writing a major portion of the thesis document. Engages students as a community of peers sharing ideas and resources for completing thesis work. Required for admission to the master's thesis design studio. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 595 ARCH 596 Fieldwork in Professional Practice (*, max. 9) On-location study under the supervision of a practicing professional involved in an aspect of environmental design. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 596 ARCH 597 Research Practicum (5) Johnson, McLaren Provides a mentored research opportunity where students apply their research and writing skills and knowledge of methods and theory to an advanced research topic. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 597 ARCH 598 Special Topics for Graduate Students (1-6, max. 18) Systematic study and offering of specialized subject matter. Topics vary and are announced in the preceding quarter and published in the course syllabus. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 598 ARCH 599 Independent Thesis Research and Preparation (3/4) Participants identify a master's thesis research area, articulate a specific question within the research area, find relevant literature and prepare an annotated bibliography, establish a research method and timetable, pursue preparatory research and analysis for the thesis project, and write, present, and defend a thesis proposal. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: AWSp. View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 599 ARCH 600 Independent Study or Research (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 600 ARCH 700 Master's Thesis (*-) View course details in MyPlan: ARCH 700 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022