COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Nursing - Family Nurse Practitioner, Postbaccalaureate Doctor of Nursing PracticeNursing - Family Nurse Practitioner All Programs College of Health Professions School of Nursing The Doctor of Nursing (DNP) Practice Postbaccalaureate degree program at Wichita State offers nurse practitioner specializations in the areas of Adult Gerontology/Acute Care, Family, or Psychiatric / Mental Health as well as the DNP advanced curriculum. Learn how WSU's DNP-Family Nurse Practitioner program is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Applicants must have: An approved graduate-level statistics course taken within the last six years A bachelor's degree with a major in nursing from a nationally accredited (CCNE, ACEN, NLN) school A minimum 3.0 GPA in the following areas: Last 60 credit hours of undergraduate coursework All undergraduate nursing courses Any graduate-level courses taken The following four science courses: anatomy/physiology, microbiology, pathophysiology and pharmacology For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Nursing students provide medical services to patients in need Each year students in the School of Nursing get hands-on experience providing a day of free health care to patients with little or no health insurance. It's all part of the Medical Mission at Home event. Nursing students work with a licensed provider or faculty member to perform medical exams on patients. Participants say the event is a wonderful applied learning experience and an opportunity to give back to the community. The event also provides patients with much-needed connections for follow-up care. Curriculum The family nurse practitioner curriculum will prepare you for the unique role of managing a range of health problems and care across the patient lifespan in primary care, specialty clinics, emergency and correctional departments, educational institutions, long-term care, health and wellness and rural health facilities. The program consists of 74 credit hours. To graduate, you’ll also complete a DNP evidence-based project and an oral defense. View the curriculum Careers A nursing degree from Wichita State will give you the knowledge and practical skills for high-paying, high-demand nursing careers in diverse health care settings such as hospitals, nursing and residential care facilities, schools and government. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Nursing - Adult - Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (Doctor of Nursing Practice) Nursing - Individual / Family Focus (Doctor of Nursing Practice) Nursing - Psychiatric / Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (Doctor of Nursing Practice) Nursing Education (Master's) Nursing - Nursing Leadership and Administration (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©