Emergency Notification: COVID-19 Visit the Health Advisories website for the latest updates, FAQs, vaccination information, and to Report a Case. Skip to main content San José State University Menu Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parent and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube Athletics Alumni Association Giving to SJSU Canvas one.SJSU Search University Menu .Go toSJSU homepage. Visit Campus Tours Maps Parking Silicon Valley Hammer Theatre SJSU Loves SJ Academics Colleges and Departments Majors and Programs Centers and Institutes Academic Calendar Classes King Library Admissions Tuition and Fees Housing Professional Education Parents and Family Programs Campus Life Health and Wellness Safety SJSU Cares Events Traditions Student Alumni Connection Research and Innovation Office of Research SJSU Research Foundation Student-Faculty Collaborations Become a Research Partner Athletics About Administration and Leadership Facts and Accomplishments Partnerships Transformation Defined Home SJSU — Transformation Defined SJSU — Transformation Defined SJSU — Transformation Defined Menu Share Your Story Share Your Story Norman K. Tuitavuki Alec Giurlani Kyle Galimba Natali Montoya Cornelio (CJ) Balmaceda Laurel Eby Micaela Whalen Alexandra Salazar Carl Henderson Sharon Martinez Tara Caughlan Nadya Carlson-Bowen Marielle Lacanlale Tommy Wen Chin Spartan Spotlight Spartan Spotlight Bob Rucker: From Teddy Bears to Television Bob Haberle: Eyes to the Martian Sky Kim Blisniuk: Shaking Things Up The Show Must Go On Andrea Lacy: The Sweet Taste of Transformation Matthew Spangler: Telling Universal Stories Thalia Anagnos: Paving an Untraditional Path Transforming the Future of Nursing Education Marcio Sanchez: A Tale of Two Photographs Kathy Córdova: The Metamorphosis of Recovery Transforming the Way We Teach Jessica Castillo Vardaro: Uplifting Latino/a Stude The Muwekma Ohlone Are Still Here Distinguished Alumni Toolkit Share Your Story Spartan Spotlight Distinguished Alumni Toolkit SJSU: Discover What it Means to Be Transformative At San José State, transformation is defined by our community. Our students’ trajectory is upward, regardless of where they start. They have the opportunity to graduate with increased future earnings and less than half the average student debt of their California counterparts. And they go on to work in some of the world’s most influential companies. As alumni of SJSU, they join our faculty and staff in positively impacting Silicon Valley, the Bay Area and beyond. We are SJSU — transformation defined. Share Your Story Testimonials of Transformation Cornelio (CJ) Balmaceda ’20 Justice Studies “I was never even supposed to be in college, let alone get accepted to SJSU. But the moment I stepped onto campus, everything changed for the better. One of the best ways SJSU transformed my life was by being introduced to lifelong friends and developing many connections. I will forever cherish my days at SJSU, and because I attended there, I am a better individual. Thank you SJSU!” Tara Caughlan ’16 MA Environmental Studies “I met so many amazing students and staff at SJSU. In the environmental studies program, I was surrounded by people who wanted to make the world a better place. I now work at the San Francisco Zoo, which is dedicated to conservation, both local and distant. My studies at SJSU helped me see the plight of animals in a much larger context. Thank you, SJSU!” Tommy Wen Chin ’22 Physics “[My SJSU professor] gave me the courage that I had been longing for to pursue physics. Every day since then, I have been very grateful for the opportunity to pursue what I truly love.” Laurel Eby ’10 MA Library and Information Science “I was a stay-at-home mom for 10 years when I decided to go back to school to get a master's degree in library and information science. A year after I graduated I started working at the King Library in February 2012, and just finished my ninth year there. I love working in the MLK Library, and on the SJSU campus. San José State truly transformed my life!” Alec Giurlani Academic Advisor, H&A Student Success Center “As a student at SJSU, I was diagnosed with Stage 3 cancer. The entire College of Humanities and the Arts was so understanding and worked with me through my whole cancer journey. I never expected SJSU to be such a kind and loving family. Thankfully, I am now more than five years cancer-free and working full time at SJSU as an academic advisor. I’m grateful for SJSU and the opportunity to give back.” Carl Henderson ’04 African American Studies “My time at SJSU was a great transformation. As a transfer student from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, I arrived in San José deflated and depressed. I found positivity and inspiration within the Xi Gamma Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity. After graduation I pursued coaching...with the life mission of ‘encouraging students to have a dream and admonishing them to have courage through adversity.’ My time at SJSU, though full of trials and tribulations, was the greatest time of my life.” Marielle Lacanlale ’22 Nursing “If I had not gone to SJSU to pursue nursing, I would not have been able to develop the work ethic that I have now to achieve my goals. SJSU has also provided me with a very strong Filipino community. I had also grown a very close knit friend group that has been able to support me in my journey throughout college. Now that I am in the nursing school here, SJSU has provided me with so many opportunities to make a difference within my community.” Alexandra Salazar ’20 Molecular Biology “Coming to SJSU introduced me to the mentors that would see my potential and help transform me into the scientist I am becoming. Thanks to the resources and guidance I received at SJSU, I will begin pursuing my PhD in neuroscience at the Scripps Research Institute starting fall 2021.” Norman K. Tuitavuki ’17 MA Transportation Management “I completed a graduate degree from San Jose Staté University several years ago. Without this formal training, I don’t know where I’d be at this moment in my life. The education I received from San Jose Staté has given me the tools I need to advance my career upward.” Footer San José State University SJSU on Facebook SJSU on Twitter SJSU on LinkedIn SJSU on Instagram SJSU on YouTube One Washington Square San José, CA 95192 408-924-1000 Accessibility Title IX Diversity Land Acknowledgement Privacy Colleges Business Education Engineering Graduate Studies Health and Human Sciences Humanities and the Arts Professional and Global Education Science Social Science Resources A-Z Index Annual Security Report [pdf] Bookstore Calendars Careers and Jobs Catalog Current Students Emergency Food & Housing King Library Parking and Maps Contact Us Contact Form Directory Doing Business with SJSU Emergency Info Report a Web Problem Report a Title IX Complaint Last Updated May 27, 2022