Skip to Content (Press Enter) California State University, Fullerton A-Z Index Search this site or CSUF general sitesSearch SiteCSUF Site Menu Search this site CSUF Homepage Excelencia Bio Videos Cabinet Office Staff + Communications Messages to Campus Published Articles Directives Internal Auditor + Contact Request a Letter of Recommendation searchSearch This Site Office of the President Excelencia Bio Videos Cabinet Office Staff Communications Directives Internal Auditor Contact Office of the President Excelencia Bio Videos Cabinet Office Staff Communications Messages to Campus Published Articles Directives Internal Auditor Contact Request a Letter of Recommendation Welcome to the Titan family! I am honored to serve as president of California State University, Fullerton, the largest institution in the CSU and one of the most transformative universities in the country. Home to more than 40,000 students — the majority of whom are the first in their family to attend college — and the alma mater to nearly 300,000 graduates, Cal State Fullerton is consistently ranked among the top public universities in the nation for both its strength of diversity and academic excellence. With tuition well below the national average, our 109 undergraduate and graduate programs are driven by innovative student support services and high-impact teaching designed to respond to California’s workforce needs. A preeminent pathway to upward social and economic mobility, Cal State Fullerton is ranked first in the CSU in graduating women, first in the state in graduating Hispanics, and fifth in the nation in conferring baccalaureate degrees to underrepresented students. It is also home to a collaborative team of educators who are at the top of their respective fields and committed to transforming lives and lifting communities. This is the power of the Titan family, and I am honored to welcome you into it — whether you are a prospective student, a family member, or newly hired faculty and staff. This website and all that it offers reflect the inclusive and welcoming spirit of our community. I hope it not only serves all your information needs, but also inspires you to join us as we continually aim to Reach Higher. Sincerely, Fram Virjee President Fram on TitanRadio CSUF President Fram Virjee chats with Titans from all walks of life. Listen to Podcasts Tweets by TitanPrezVirjee This site is maintained by Office of the President. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessibility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers This page uses mobile menus which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.