Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Information Technology UCIT right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow IT College Contacts Diversity and Inclusion Sitemap Services right arrow down arrow Student Hardware Software right arrow down arrow Student Software Productivity (Students) right arrow down arrow Student Printing with Wepa Computer Labs App & Web Development Research Computing Services Connectivity (Visitors) IT NEXT Get Help right arrow down arrow Report an issue Student Quickstart Guide ResNet Documentation Center Home » About UC » IT@UC » IT Next IT NEXT Learn more about the technology innovation and changes occurring at the University of Cincinnati. View a calendar and list of service changes using the Change Management webapp (requires UC login). Need help? Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Log into UC DocuSign with Your UC Username and Password Effective Monday, May 23, at 5:15 a.m., you will need to use your UC username and password when you sign into a university-wide DocuSign account on DocuSign.com. No interruptions to DocuSign service are planned or expected as part of this change. What you can expect Our records indicate that some logins to UC DocuSign accounts are using a UC email address instead of a UC username (sometimes referred to as your 6 + 2) and password. Beginning Monday, May 23, at 5:15 a.m., when you attempt to login on DocuSign.com, your UC email address will no longer allow you to login to DocuSign. Select USE COMPANY LOGIN on DocuSign’s login screen. You will automatically get redirected to a UC login screen. Enter your UC username Enter your UC username and password and select “Log In.” Please contact the IT@UC Service Desk if you have any issues logging into your DocuSign account. Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Changes to WebEx Access Zoom replaced WebEx as the university’s official web conferencing tool for online and hybrid teaching and learning. Access to WebEx licenses will be limited to areas with specific business needs when the final stage of the WebEx-to-Zoom transition ends. Access to WebEx ends for most of the university Thursday, May 5, 2022. Access to your UC WebEx account ends Thursday, May 5, 2022. You will no longer be able to use WebEx for your web conferencing needs unless: You are a faculty member in the College of Medicine (COM). WebEx access ends for COM faculty Friday, June 3, 2022. You or someone in your area received confirmation of an approved request to continue using WebEx. You can access previously recorded WebEx sessions in Kaltura, UC's enterprise video repository. View Kaltura how-to instructions in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Download Webex Recordings from Kaltura. Use Zoom or Microsoft Teams for your web conferencing needs. The university offers all current UC students, faculty, and staff members access to Zoom and Microsoft Teams. View features available in Zoom and Microsoft Teams on Bearcats Landing. Zoom is the university’s official web conferencing tool for teaching and learning. Zoom integrates seamlessly with Canvas, UC’s learning management system. You can schedule Zoom meetings, view previously recorded Zoom sessions, and hold office hours within Canvas. View faculty and staff resources for Zoom at UC on Bearcats Landing. View Zoom how-to instructions in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Create Zoom office hours in Canvas. Start a Zoom meeting in Canvas. Use Microsoft Teams to host virtual meetings, send instant messages, and collaborate on projects. Get started today by navigating to the Teams app from the Office 365 app launcher. Log into mail.uc.edu with your UC username and password. Navigate to the app launcher by selecting the waffle on the top, left-hand side of the screen. Select Teams from the list of apps. View Teams how-to instructions in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Set up Microsoft Teams. Learn more about Microsoft Teams Audio Conferencing. Learn how to access your recorded Teams meetings. How to request a WebEx Business Account The university will license and manage a limited number of WebEx accounts to accommodate areas with specific business needs that cannot be met by Zoom or Microsoft Teams. Submit a WebEx Business Account Request Form. About the Transition from WebEx to Zoom Zoom emerged as the best solution for online and hybrid teaching and learning at UC. right arrow down arrow The IT Governance eLearning Committee conducted a university-wide, comprehensive evaluation of enterprise web conferencing tools in FY 2021. The Web Conferencing Task Force recommended Zoom to replace WebEx as the university’s official web conferencing tool for online and hybrid courses. The university’s phased approach allowed time to transition from WebEx to Zoom. right arrow down arrow Phase 1 occurred during fall semester 2021. All current students, faculty, and staff received access to UC-licensed Zoom accounts before the start of fall semester 2021. Monday, Dec. 20, 2021, marks the start of Phase 2. The WebEx integration with Canvas ends Monday, Dec. 20, 2021. The WebEx integration with Canvas ended Monday, Dec. 20, 2021. You are no longer be able to schedule office hours, schedule meetings, or access previously recorded WebEx sessions within Canvas. University-wide WebEx licenses will only be available through the end of spring semester (Thursday, May 5, 2022). WebEx licenses will no longer be available for all current students, faculty, and staff after Thursday, May 5, 2022. Access to WebEx licenses will be limited to areas with specific business needs. Need help? Please contact the IT@UC Service Desk. Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Update to the Latest Version of Microsoft To Do Microsoft will be moving Microsoft To Do’s backend to a more efficient service. For the best experience across all your devices, and to avoid any issues with cross-device syncing, you will need to update to the latest version. Update mobile and desktop To Do apps to version 2.60 or higher before February 15, 2022. For additional assistance, please open a support ticket via uc.edu/ithelp. Microsoft Visio Now Available within Office 365! We're pleased to announce that Microsoft Visio is now available within Office 365. This is the online version, which allows viewing, creating, and editing basic diagrams. Get started today by navigating to the Visio app from the Office 365 app launcher! IT@UC Back to School Resources IT tips, reminders, and resources to help you during the busy back to school rush. Get set up. Duo Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) is required for Canvas. Zoom is here! MyDesk offers remote access to software. ResNet offers remote software assistance online. Keep your information on lock. IT@UC help resources. View Back to School Resources for faculty and staff. Get Set Up: What to do when you get to campus. Log into UC_Secure Wireless with your current UC username and password. right arrow down arrow Connect your computer to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Windows 10. View setup guide for macOSX. View setup guide for Linux. Connect your wireless device to UC_Secure. View setup guide for Apple iOS (iphone, iPad). View setup guide for Android devices. View setup guide for Google Pixel phones. Accept the “netauth.uc.edu” authentication certificate on your wireless device(s). You may be presented with a screen displaying “netauth.uc.edu” after you log into UC_Secure wireless with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept.” That’s IT! You may experience a brief delay while your device connects to UC_Secure wireless. Follow the steps below if you cannot successfully connect to UC_Secure wireless or if you did not select “Trust” or “Accept” when prompted with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Select “UC_Secure” from the list of available networks on your device. Select “Forget This Network.” Go back to the list of available networks and log into “UC_Secure” with your UC username and password. Select “Trust” or “Accept” when presented with the “netauth.uc.edu” certificate. Use our Student Quickstart Guide. right arrow down arrow View our Student Quickstart Guide for more technology set up information. Duo Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) is required for Canvas. Students, faculty, and staff need their phones (or other devices/options) with them to log into Canvas and access course materials—including timed, in-class exams. The Office of Information Security recommends you follow the time-saving security tips below. Choose “Send Me a Push” in the Duo Mobile App. right arrow down arrow Choose “Send Me a Push” in the Duo Mobile App for the quickest, most user-friendly experience. View "Send Me a Push" set up instructions for Duo. Use “Remember me” to log into Canvas with Duo. right arrow down arrow Use “Remember me” to log into Canvas with Duo once a month (instead of…Every. Single. Time.) Selecting the “Remember me” checkbox tells Duo to send you one authentication request for Canvas every thirty days. Duo’s “Remember me” feature is device and browser specific. So, if you need to use another device or browser to log into Canvas, you’ll need to check the “Remember me” box again. View “Remember me” set up instructions in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Keep your phone with you. right arrow down arrow Keep your phone with you in case you need to log into Canvas and access course materials—including timed, in-class exams. If you forget your phone or have trouble logging into Canvas with Duo, please contact your instructor. Need help with Duo? Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Zoom is here! All current faculty, staff, and students now have access to UC-licensed Zoom accounts. right arrow down arrow All UC Zoom licenses are EDU Zoom licenses that provide: Top tier accessibility features Meetings for up to 300 participants Breakout rooms Unlimited time for meetings Live captioning High quality audio, video, and screen sharing via a stable connection Built in collaboration tools like whiteboards, co-annotating, polls, and music and video sharing Learn more about Zoom at UC on IT@UC's website. Already have a licensed UC Zoom account? right arrow down arrow If you established a licensed UC Zoom account within the last year, login with your UC username and password at ucincinnati.zoom.us. Get started with Zoom. right arrow down arrow View the IT@UC Knowledge Base articles below to setup your licensed UC Zoom account. Activate a new UC Zoom account. Login to your new UC Zoom account. Merge a free Zoom account with your licensed UC Zoom account. Merge a Zoom Pro account with your licensed UC Zoom account. Get help with Zoom. right arrow down arrow Contact the IT@UC Service Desk to request UC Zoom support. Submit a ticket. Or, call us: Dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. MyDesk offers remote access to software. MyDesk provides students, faculty, and staff online access to many of the software tools available in computer labs. right arrow down arrow View how to install the MyDesk app on your desktop. View how to access MyDesk with an internet browser. Software applications available on MyDesk. right arrow down arrow IT@UC Computer Labs Software & Equipment; a dash means the software/equipment is not found in the location. Software Langsam 4th Floor MyDesk IT@UC Virtual Desktop 7–Zip Yes (Win) Yes Adobe Acrobat Reader DC - Yes Adobe Creative Cloud Yes (Mac & Win) Yes (select applications) Anaconda 3 - Yes ESRI ArcGIS 10.8 Professional Yes (Win) Yes Git - Yes Google Chrome Yes (Mac & Win) Yes IBM SPSS Statistics 28 Yes (Mac & Win) Yes Java Yes (Mac & Win) Yes Java SE Development Kit Yes (Mac) Yes Kaltura Capture Yes - Kite - Yes Microsoft Office 365 - Yes Microsoft Office Professional Plus 2021 Yes (Mac & Win) - Microsoft OneNote Yes Yes Microsoft SQL Management Studio 18 - Yes Microsoft Visual Studio Code Yes (Mac & Win) Yes Microsoft Visual Studio 2019 Community - Yes Mozilla Firefox ESR Yes (Mac & Win) Yes Notepad++ Yes (Win) Yes NetBeans 12.4 - Yes PuTTY Yes (Win) Yes Python 3 Yes (Mac & Win) Yes R Yes (Mac & Win) Yes RStudio Yes (Mac & Win) Yes Rtools Yes (Win) Yes SAS 9.4 - Yes Systat SigmaPlot 14.5 Yes (Win) Yes Unity Hub - Yes VLC Media Player Yes (Mac & Win) - VMware Horizon Client (Virtual Labs) Yes (Mac & Win) - Wepa Print App Yes (Mac & Win) Yes WinSCP - Yes Wolfram Mathematica Yes (Mac & Win, Version 13) Yes (Version 12.3) XCode Yes (Mac) - ResNet offers remote software assistance online. ResNet provides software support to students, faculty, and staff at no charge. right arrow down arrow Get help with: Software installation and removal Operating Systems (Microsoft Windows & macOS) Malware/virus removal Wireless and wired Internet connectivity Please submit a ticket or contact the IT@UC Service Desk at 513-556-4357 (HELP) for help. Touch-free printing is available in the Wepa Mobile App. Wepa printing stations offer Wepa Express touch-free printing for students at various locations around campus. right arrow down arrow View more information about Wepa printing services. Keep Your Information on Lock The Office of Information Security put together these security tips to help you prepare for the start of fall semester. Look out for phishing. right arrow down arrow Cyber criminals constantly phish for access to your personal information. They cast their nets wide—millions of malicious emails find their way into inboxes each day. Their target: your username and password. Protect your identity; protect your finances; protect yourself. Look for spelling and grammatical errors in the email name and text. If there is a clickable link check to see if the link has spelling errors. If the email has any .exe files do not download the file or click the link. When in doubt – ask! Forward suspicious messages to infosec@uc.edu. Learn more about phishing in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Web conferencing security tips. right arrow down arrow Create your meetings in advance. By scheduling meetings ahead, you can select the people that you want to attend ahead of time. The meeting or conference organizer can use access controls to mute, kick, and disable control for attendees. These controls can help to minimize unwanted distractions or outbursts from attendees. While on a conference call concerning sensitive data, remain in a closed & secure environment to help avoid data leaks. If you cannot move to a secure environment, use headphones, and avoid talking about sensitive information. View more tips in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. Secure your Zoom meeting Secure a scheduled WebEx meeting Secure your WebEx personal room Report any lost or stolen devices. right arrow down arrow If a device with sensitive data is lost or stolen, contact the Office of Information Security. Report any other lost or stolen devices to UC Lost & Found. IT@UC is here to help you. How-to guides on the IT@UC Knowledge Base (KB) right arrow down arrow The IT@UC Knowledge Base provides 24/7 access to hundreds of articles, custom UC how-to guides, FAQs, and more. Search the IT@UC Knowledge Base Contact the IT@UC Service Desk right arrow down arrow The IT@UC Service Desk offers help from 7 a.m.-11 p.m., Monday-Friday; and 8 a.m.-11 p.m., Saturday-Sunday. Call us: dial (513) 556-HELP (4357) or (866) 397-3382 from your personal phone. Dial 6-HELP (4357) from a university phone on campus. Then, select option 2. Or, submit a ticket using the following "Submit a Ticket" button below. Submit a ticket request for IT help 24/7 Canopy Support for Canopy/eLearning tool issues right arrow down arrow Our Canopy Support team provides around-the-clock assistance with Canvas and tools within Canvas. All services available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. Call: (513) 556-HELP (4357) OR (866) 397-3382; select option 3 in the menu. IT@UC Services Status module available Get real-time status of select IT services. Subscribe to receive automated status updates via email. The IT Services Status module provides real-time updates on 15 essential IT services. IT@UC plans to add additional systems to the module as part of a year-long project to automate IT services status information through the IT@UC Service portal. You can sign up to receive automated service status notifications via email. View the IT@UC Services Status module IT services currently included in the Services Status module right arrow down arrow The first release of the Services Status module (Dec. 1, 2020) provides the current status (no issues; planned maintenance; service degradation; outage) of the essential IT services listed below. Canvas Catalyst Concur Echo360 Email – Microsoft Office365 Kaltura Login Services Network- On campus Network – VPN Network – Wireless ServiceNow UC Phone Service/Voicemail UC.edu and AEM websites UCFlex WebEx Descriptions of Services Status Categories right arrow down arrow No issues: IT service operating normally. Planned maintenance: IT service undergoing planned maintenance. Planned maintenance windows typically occur during off-peak hours to limit the impact of any required service interruptions or outages. Service degradation: IT service intermittently unavailable. You may experience service interruptions while technicians troubleshoot issues. Service outage: IT service unavailable. You will not be able to access this IT service while technicians troubleshoot issues. Change to Teams recorded meetings effective August 16 Recordings of Teams meetings will automatically save to OneDrive/SharePoint beginning Monday, Aug. 16. Recordings of Teams meetings will automatically save to OneDrive/SharePoint beginning Monday, Aug. 16. Teams meetings recorded before August 16 will still be accessible in Microsoft Stream (Classic). Microsoft will release Stream (on SharePoint)—a new version of the Stream video service included in the Microsoft Office 365 suite of tools. Teams meeting recordings stored in the current version of Stream—now called Stream (Classic)—will eventually be migrated to the new Stream (on SharePoint). View how to access your Teams recordings and other Stream videos in the IT@UC Knowledge Base. University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati IT@UC - 51 Goodman Dr. Cincinnati, Oh 45221-0658 513-556-HELP (4357) © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top