Skip to main content Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Close Yale School of Art 1156 Chapel Street, POB 208339 New Haven, Connecticut, 06520-8339 Pause animations Play animations Home About the School Apply to the School Exhibitions Publications News Public Events Pause animations Play animations This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini Support the School (opens in a new window) Photo: Rory Hamovit, Photography MFA ’20. Annual Fund Gifts from alumni, parents, friends, and anyone interested in art make an immediate impact on the School. Scholarship funds are the top priority and the money received from Annual Fund donations directly supports our students. Gifts of all sizes make an impact. Give now Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Endowment Funds Gift commitments of $50,000 or more (over of period of up to five years) can be directed to the Yale Endowment to provide ongoing support for the School of Art. These gifts are invested growing steadily overtime and providing more and more distributed income to the School each year. Endowment gifts are an investment in the future of the School. Endowment gifts can support scholarships, faculty, research and travel, and capital needs. To discuss making an endowment, contact Jill Westgard, Director of Development, Yale School of Art. jill.westgard@yale.edu / 203.432.5846 Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Planned Giving You can support the School through bequest, annunities, trusts, and other financial vehicles. Surprises are nice, but if possible, please contact the Director of Development at the Yale School of Art to discuss your planned gift. This will help ensure that your intention is carried out as you envision. It is important to state specifically in your will what you would like to support at the school: scholarships, faculty, programs, etc. Suggested language: “I give (dollars or asset) to Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, for the Yale School of Art to support (scholarships or faculty support or program or etc.) For more information, visit Yale Planned Giving Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody Make a Gift Or contact Jill Westgard, Director of Development, Yale School of Art Yale University Office of Development PO Box 2038 New Haven CT 06521-2038 203.432.5846 jill.westgard@yale.edu Editor details Last edited by: Lindsey Mancini Edit access: Everybody See also: Giving to Yale Ways to Give Give Now © 2022 Support the School Visiting Instagram Facebook YouTube Contact Sitemap Accessibility at Yale This website exists as an ongoing collaborative experiment in digital publishing and information sharing. Because this website functions as a wiki, all members of the School of Art community—graduate students, faculty, staff, and alums—have the ability to add new content and pages, and to edit most of the site’s existing content. Content is the property of its various authors. When you contribute to this site, you agree to abide by Yale University academic and network use policy, and to act as a responsible member of our community. Visitor: Log in Edit this page Page history Page last changed by: Lindsey Mancini Background changed by: Lindsey Mancini