Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index TTU K-12 Menu Search TTU TTU K-12 Tuition-Free: Applications are open. Now accepting applications and enrolling students for Fall. More Details Tuition-Paid: Now accepting applications and admitting students as space permits. Anytime – Anywhere We utilize innovative online technologies, rigorous and reputable curriculum, excellent state-certified teachers and quality customer service. Accredited by Cognia™ Cognia nationally recognizes districts that meet rigorous standards focused on productive learning environments, equitable resource allocation that meets the needs of learners, and effective leadership. Earning accreditation from the Cognia Global Accreditation Commission means that TTU K-12 is recognized across the country and internationally as a school that meets Cognia Standards of Quality and maintains a commitment to continuous improvement. Cognia is a nonprofit organization providing quality assurance for schools, school districts and education service providers. Recognized & Approved TTU K-12 is established and approved by the State Board of Education and the Texas Education Agency (TEA). Texas Tech High School is designated by TEA as a Purple Star Campus, demonstrating support and commitment to meeting the unique needs of military connected students and their families. Proven & Trusted TTU K-12 is an award-winning online academic program established by the State of Texas in 1993. Since that time, we have successfully served more than 460,000 students from 71 countries around the world. Full-Time Diploma Program We offer a complete full-time curriculum that covers everything needed for an approved education for all grade levels. Full-Time Programs Individual Credit By Exams TTU K-12 offers over 150 Credit by Exams to test out for subjects.Credit By Exams Individual Courses TTU K-12 offers individual courses to make up a credit or get ahead.Individual Courses School Solutions TTU K-12 offers many options for schools and districts, including bulk and print-based CBEs. School Solutions We have a solution for you. Whether you are using a full-time curriculum you love and just need help with a particular subject, or you are looking to use TTU K-12 as your full-time curriculum – we have a solution for you. Our programs cover everything needed for an approved education while still providing the flexibility that students love. Why you'll love being a TTU K-12 student: High Student Success Rate: 4 out of 5 students successfully complete their courses, with the help of exceptional teacher support and well-developed course content. Flexible: Start our programs at any time. Self-Paced: Adjust your schedule to accommodate other activities such as rehearsals, lessons, jobs, practices, traveling, etc. Meets State Requirements: We offer all courses need to complete a Texas High School Diploma Graduation Plan, including endorsements and CTE pathways. TTU K-12 Newsletter "Wherever You Are" Our newsletter helps keep you informed and connected with what's going in TTU K-12.View Our Newsletter Contact Us Contact us anytime! Our staff is available to assist you with any questions you may have. Contact Student Services Visit the student services portal for answers to commonly asked questions as well as 24/7 online chat and phone assistance. studentservices.k12.ttu.edu 24/7 Student Support Toll-Free: (800) 692-6877 Local: (806) 464-4173 Email: ttuk12@ttu.edu TTU K-12 Like TTU K-12 on FacebookLike TTU K-12 on Facebook Subscribe to TTU K-12 on YouTubeSubscribe to TTU K-12 on YouTube Follow TTU K-12 on InstagramFollow TTU K-12 on Instagram Address Drane Hall | Texas Tech University | PO Box 42191 | 2515 15th Street | Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone (800) 692-6877 Email ttuk12@ttu.edu Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 17, 2022 12:46 PM close Hide Contact Us Please enter the information below and a representative from TTU K-12 will contact you shortly. If the form fails to load, it can be viewed here. TTU K-12 About TTU K-12 About Back Overview News & Stories Tuition & Fees Free Tuition Staff Careers Programs TTU K-12 Programs Back Full-Time (Diploma Program) Individual Courses Credit By Exams District Solutions International Partnerships Online Catalog Enroll Student Resources TTU K-12 Student Resources Back Disabilities Graduation Student Organizations Resources Proctor Information Bookstore Advisory Board Contact Focus Login Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index