Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Physical Health Colds Do your cold symptoms include a sore throat? Watch this video to learn more about the causes and appropriate treatment of sore throat. What is a cold? The common cold is an inflammation of the upper respiratory tract most often caused by one of the more than 100 types of rhinovirus. People may get multiple colds throughout their lifetimes, generally with a different rhinovirus causing a similar cluster of cold symptoms. A cold typically lasts 3-7 days but it is not uncommon for some symptoms to persist up to 2 weeks. A cold is different than "the flu" which is caused by influenza virus and is associated with high fever and more severe symptoms. How common is the common cold? It is estimated that in one year people in the U.S. suffer 1 billion colds. Adults average about 2 to 4 colds a year, although the range varies widely. Colds are most prevalent among children, who average 6 to 10 colds a year. What are the symptoms? Symptoms of the common cold usually begin 2 to 3 days after infection and often include: Runny or stuffed nose Sore or scratchy throat (often occurs early on, then fades) Hoarseness/headaches and muscle aches Blocked/popping feeling in ears Cough (often occurs 4-5 days into cold) Postnasal drip Watery eyes Decreased appetite Fatigue/malaise Low grade fever Cold symptoms can last from 2 to 14 days, but two-thirds of people recover in a week. If symptoms occur often or last much longer than 2 weeks, they may be the result of an allergy rather than a cold. Colds occasionally can lead to secondary bacterial infections of the middle ear or sinuses, requiring treatment with antibiotics. High fever, significantly swollen glands, severe facial pain in the sinuses, and a cough that produces mucus, may indicate a complication or more serious illness requiring a medical provider's attention. How do you catch a cold? People with colds carry viral particles on their hands for a couple of hours after touching their own noses. They can transmit the cold virus to another by direct contact (handshake eg) or by contaminating surfaces that others touch and then spread to their own noses, mouths, or eyes. Viral particles can also be spread when cold sufferers sneeze, cough, or just exhale. Colds are not caused by cold temperatures, but some cold viruses are acquired more often in the fall and spring, others in the winter, and still others are responsible for most colds during the summer. It is not uncommon for adults to have 2-3 colds per year, and children 5-7. Not everyone who is exposed to a cold virus catches a cold. Your body may have previously developed immunity to a particular rhinovirus. Other factors are age, general health, smoking, lack of sleep, and intensity and duration of the exposure. It has not been proven that stress suppresses your body's natural immunity, but research has linked psychological stress to a greater incidence of colds. Much of the research on the transmission of the common cold has been done with rhinoviruses, which are shed in the highest concentration in nasal secretions. Studies suggest a person is most likely to transmit rhinoviruses in the second to fourth day of infection, when the amount of virus in nasal secretions is highest. Researchers also have shown that using aspirin to treat colds increases the amount of virus shed in nasal secretions, possibly making the cold sufferer more of a hazard to others. Teenagers and children should not take aspirin for a cold because it can cause Reye syndrome, a rare but serious illness. How are colds treated? There is no cure for the common cold. Antibiotics, which are only effective against bacteria, are not necessary or curative for cold or flu viruses. In fact, overuse of antibiotics for colds can lead to bacteria developing resistance to antibiotics. Most treatments for colds are for symptom relief, but cannot shorten or cure the cold. The symptoms of colds are self-limited - they will go away over time, even with no treatment. How can I take care of myself when I have a cold? Fluids: Keep well hydrated, a minimum of 8 glasses of water daily is reasonable. Rest: Try to get at least 8 hours of sleep daily - "baby yourself" with extra rest if possible. Stop or cut back on smoking: Smokers catch more colds, recover from them more slowly, and are more prone to complications. Learn more about smoking cessation. Lozenges/cough drops/sore throat sprays: There are many brands, some with "pain numbing" features, but even hard candy can provide some coating, soothing action. Humidifying the air: Steam in the form of hot showers, a wet towel hung in the room, a pan of water on the radiator, or best yet, a vaporizer/humidifier in your room can help congestion symptoms. Other treatments: Zinc lozenges, Vitamin C, herbal products such as Echinacea are advertised to treat or prevent colds. While none are likely to cause harm, unless large amounts are taken over a long period, none have been consistently effective in clinical trials. For nasal/sinus congestion and post nasal drip: Daytime: Try pseudoephedrine (eg, Sudagest/Sudafed) following package directions. This decongestant pill is the most effective oral decongestant, but it must be requested at stores as it is kept "behind the counter" rather than out on the shelf. Don't take it near bedtime as some people are kept awake by it. At bedtime: Try decongestant/antihistamine combination (eg, Aprodine/Actifed per directions), which is less likely to interfere with sleep. This is also kept "behind the counter". Antihistamine products used alone for cold symptoms are less helpful for most people because of drying or sedating side effects. Day or night: Decongestant nasal sprays (e.g., Afrin or generic equivalent, per package directions) can also be very effective for nasal and sinus congestion, but only for 3 days; after that some rebound congestion can occur. Saline irrigation: Try a Neti Pot or other sinus irrigation system (e.g., McNeil Sinus Rinse) per product instructions, to clear your sinuses and posterior throat of mucus, by rinsing them out with saline solution. Especially for individuals prone to developing sinus infections after a cold, this may be a very helpful technique. For fever, body aches, headache, sore throat: Acetaminophen (Tylenol) regular strength 325 mg tabs - 2 tabs every 4-6 hours as needed.** OR Acetaminophen (Tylenol) extra strength 500 mg tabs - 2 tabs every 6 hours as needed.** OR Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, Nuprin e.g.) over the counter strength - 200 mg tabs - 2 tabs every 4 hours as needed with food, or 3 tabs every 6 hours with food.** OR as directed by your provider. **Do not take more than 4000 mg acetaminophen daily or more than 2400 mg ibuprofen daily. **Some over-the-counter cold products contain acetaminophen or ibuprofen in combination with other products, so be careful to read labels to avoid excessive doses. Similarly, read labels to make sure you know whether you are taking regular or extra strength acetaminophen, as this medicine is toxic at excessive doses. For cough: There is debate among experts about the usefulness of cough suppressants and expectorants for cough that comes along with a cold. Generally, a wet, productive cough that produces mucus is good as it clears secretions. If your cough disturbs your sleep, try a hot drink, elevating your head a little on pillows, and humidifying your room. An OTC cough medicine with dextromethoraphan ("DM") (eg, Robitusin DM or generic equivalent, per package directions) may help some people who have bothersome dry, spasmodic cough. Guaifenisin (eg, Mucinex, taken per package directions), an expectorant, is available either by itself or as a common ingredient in cough/cold OTC remedies. Some people find this product helps to thin and mobilize mucus. See your provider if your cough is worsening, keeps you up without relief, or is associated with wheezing or shortness of breath. Other prescription medicine may be indicated. Brown students can make an appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Is there a cold vaccine? No. The development of a vaccine that could prevent the common cold has reached an impasse because of the discovery of many different cold viruses. Each virus carries its own specific antigens, substances that induce the formation of specific protective proteins (antibodies) produced by the body. Until ways are found to combine many viral antigens in one vaccine, or take advantage of the antigenic cross-relationships that exist, prospects for a vaccine are dim. Evidence that changes occur in common-cold virus antigens further complicate development of a vaccine. Such changes occur in some influenza virus antigens and make it necessary to alter the influenza vaccine each year. How do I prevent a cold? Hand washing, with soap and water or alcohol-based hand cleaners, is highly effective in preventing the spread of colds. Wash hands after touching communal surfaces, before touching your own eyes, nose, and mouth. Avoid sharing eating and drinking utensils. If possible, you should avoid close, prolonged exposure to people who have colds. If you have a cold, sneeze or cough into your crooked elbow to contain the spread of viral particles and/or use tissues, which should be promptly disposed of, and hands washed. When should I see a medical provider about my cold? Most colds are self-limited and even if some symptoms last up to 2 weeks, there is some improvement gradually over time. Less commonly, some cold viruses can suppress the immune response and secondary infection with a new virus or bacteria may occur, usually after the cold has been lingering for some time. Examples of such complications of colds include sinus infection, bronchitis, pneumonia, ear infection. The appearance of thick yellow-green nasal discharge is a normal phase of the common cold and in and of itself does not suggest that a cold has developed into a sinus infection. Also, most people will have some pain/pressure in the face in the first 4-5 days of a cold. It should resolve as the cold improves. Regarding fevers, for adults/young adults, only a temperature over 99.6 is considered a fever, even in people whose usual temperature fall below 98.6 (a normal finding). Low-grade fevers associated with familiar symptoms of a cold are usually not concerning, and are often lower in the morning, creeping up in the afternoon. The symptoms that follow suggest that you may not have a simple common cold, or that a complication of cold may be occurring. See your medical provider (Brown students should call Health Services at 401.863-3953 for an appointment ) if you experience: Fever of 100 for over 3 days, especially with very sore throat Fever of 101 or more at any time Neck pain or stiffness Severe pain in chest, face, head, ears, throat Wheezing or shortness of breath Cold symptoms lasting over 2 weeks, which steadily worsen instead of improving Painful swelling of neck glands White patches on your throat or tonsils Exacerbation of asthma symptoms If you catch a cold but also have a serious chronic illness or immunosuppression Can I make an appointment at Health Services? If you are a Brown student and you are concerned about your cold symptoms, you can make a confidential appointment at Health Services by calling 401.863-3953. Health Services provides a range of services including general health care and emergency medical care. You can request a medical provider by gender or by name. We are located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Related Links National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases This site has information and fact sheets on preventing, diagnosing, and treating infectious and immune-mediated illnesses, including the common cold. MEDLINE Plus This site has several articles on common colds, including general overviews, treatment and prevention. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment What is Peer Education? Learn about BWell's Peer Education Programs! Get involved in empowerment and prevention work at Brown. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook