COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Geology In This Section Geology Home What We Do Faculty and Staff History Bachelor of Science Program Bachelor of Arts Program Masters Degree EEPS Program Field School Facilities Scholarship Opportunities Alumni Contact and Location Geology is the study of the Earth, its materials, and its processes. Geology is essential for finding solutions to climate change, natural hazard mitigation, pollution and waste disposal, resource exploration and sustainability, and civil engineering projects. The Geology Department offers applied degrees and certificates to prepare students for careers in industry, government, and education. Certificate in Environment and Sustainability Bachelors of Arts in Geology Bachelors of Science in Geology Masters in Earth, Environmental, and Physical Sciences Dynamic Subject Earth is our home. Earth is also an active, dynamic planet. The processes that shape and change our planet have economic, anthropologic, and social ramifications. Geology is the study of the processes that shape the solid Earth through time, and their interaction with the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and biosphere. Climate Energy Hazards Mineral Resources Water FAQ Applied Science Geology is essential for finding solutions to climate change, natural hazard mitigation, pollution and waste disposal, resource exploration and sustainability, as well as civil engineering investigations. Geologists work to understand the Earth through field work, rock descriptions, mapping, geophysical techniques, chemical analyses, physical experiments, and numerical modelling. Geoscience Environmental Science Hydrology Practical Discipline The Department of Geology offers degrees and certificates that prepare students for careers in industry, government, or academia. The geology program at Wichita State offers a Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BS), a Certificate in Environment and Sustainability, and a Master of Science (MS) degree through the Earth, Environmental and Physical Science (EEPS) Program. Job Outlook - Geoscientists Job Outlook - Geological Technicians Job Outlook - Environmental Scientists Job Outlook - Hydrologists Department Information Faculty and Staff What We Do Facilities Geology Courses EEPS Courses Field Camp Scholarships and Fellowships Department History Department of Geology 1845 Fairmount St., Box 27 Wichita, Kansas 67260 wsugeology@gmail.com 316-978-3140 facebook instagram 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©