Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Engineering Research Engineering & Applied Science Research Princeton engineers create knowledge and technologies, educate tomorrow's leaders, and serve society through discovery, design and invention within a cross-disciplinary environment and a liberal arts setting. Our Six Departments Chemical and Biological . Chemical and biological engineering addresses a range of problems in human health, energy production, materials science and industrial processes. Areas of excellence at Princeton include: applied and computational mathematics, bioengineering, environmental and energy science and technology, materials synthesis and processing, process engineering and science, thermodynamics and statistical mechanics, and transport phenomena. LEARN MORE Civil and Environmental . Civil and environmental engineering research addresses fundamental questions associated with the built environment, the natural environment, and interactions between the two. Focus areas include design of civil engineering systems; water resources and the hydrologic cycle, civil engineering materials, environmental and structural monitoring; air quality and water quality; urban environments, including smart cities; the impacts of climate change on water resources and natural hazards; impacts of energy technology on the environment and structural art and design. LEARN MORE Computer Science . Princeton has been at the forefront of computing since Alan Turing, Alonzo Church and John von Neumann were among its residents. The department, now in a period of major growth, has strong groups in artificial intelligence and machine learning, theory, programming languages, graphics and vision, systems and networking, computer architecture, computational biology and neuroscience, security, privacy, and information technology policy. LEARN MORE Electrical Engineering . Princeton's electrical engineering program, started in 1889 as one of the first in the United States, remains at the forefront of the field, with research aimed at improving human health, energy and environmental systems, computing and communications, and security. Specific areas of research include the physics of semiconductors; electronic and optical devices; the design of computers and networks; materials science and nanotechnologies; algorithms and structures for information; and biological technologies. LEARN MORE Mechanical and Aerospace . Mechanical and aerospace engineers at Princeton have played leading roles in propulsion, combustion, fluid modeling and measurement, laser technology and materials, environmental science, and aerospace dynamics over the past half century. With ties to many other areas of science and engineering, MAE faculty also have a major impact in pollution and alternative fuels; energy use and storage; materials science; satellite technology and propulsion; stability and control of vehicles; aircraft performance; and instrumentation. LEARN MORE Operations Research and Financial Engineering . The Operations Research and Financial Engineering department's research, teaching and professional service focuses on the foundations of data science, probabilistic modeling, and optimal decision-making under uncertainty, with principal applications in communications, finance, energy and the environment, social, behavioral, physical and biological sciences, robotics and cyberphysical systems, social networks, and transportation. LEARN MORE Interdisciplinary Research Centers Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment . The Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment supports a vibrant and expanding program of research and teaching in the areas of sustainable energy-technology development, energy efficiency, and environmental protection and remediation. A chief goal of the center is to translate fundamental knowledge into practical solutions that enable sustainable energy production and the protection of the environment and global climate from energy-related anthropogenic change. LEARN MORE Center for Information Technology Policy . The Center for Information Technology Policy is a nexus of expertise in technology, engineering, public policy and the social sciences. In keeping with the University tradition of service, the center's research, teaching and events address digital technologies as they interact with society. It produces leading research as well as practical demonstrations of issues at the crossroads of technology and policy. CITP integrates graduate and undergraduate students at all levels of its work, including an undergraduate certificate offered in cooperation with the Keller Center. LEARN MORE PRISM . The Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials (PRISM) integrates fundamental theory and applied research in investigating and inventing materials of broad importance in energy, medicine, electronics, information technology and many other fields. PRISM offers an undergraduate program leading to a Certificate in Materials, which includes core courses within PRISM, electives offered by departments and extensive faculty interaction and research opportunities. At the graduate level PRISM offers a multidisciplinary program in cooperation with academic departments. PRISM also conducts extensive educational outreach programs. LEARN MORE Engineering Research Highlights In the laboratory led by Howard Stone, a professor in the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the flow of creativity among the postdoctoral researchers, graduate students and undergraduates leads to findings with the potential to benefit society. How Everyday Things Inspire Breakthroughs in Fluid Dynamics In Howard Stone's lab, a cup of coffee, gelatin and ice act as model systems to study pattern formation in liquids. Read More Lessons Learned, Some Unheeded, after Hurricanes . Ning Lin, an assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering, says actions taken after Superstorm Sandy might not be enough to protect residents from future hurricanes. Learn More Bioinformatics Points the Way to Treating Pancreatic Cancer . A new study that sifted through an enormous mass of biomolecular data has significantly advanced our understanding of the genetics of pancreatic cancer and opened up promising treatment avenues. Read More Old Phones Get New Life in High-Powered Computer Servers . Princeton researchers have developed a method to use old smartphones to build computer servers that are often cheaper to build and operate than conventional high-end servers. Read More Areas of Impact These are some of the areas in which we connect multiple disciplines to solve societal problems. Bioengineering and Health Data Science Entrepreneurship Energy and Environment Future Cities Robotics and Cyberphysical Systems Engineering at Princeton Our programs solve important problems by emphasizing fundamental principles of engineering with their connections to society. Visit the School of Engineering and Applied Science Tour of the E-Quad Research at Princeton Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice