Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Here you’ll find resources for staying connected to BC and your fellow Eagles—through programs and events, networking channels, giving opportunities, and much more. No matter how near or far you are from the Heights, you’ll always be home at BC. COVID-19 Updates Stay current on all COVID-related updates on the official Reopening BC site. Reopening BC Site Featured Events LA Chapter Virtual Wellness Talk with Dr. John Barrett '82: May 11 The Los Angeles Chapter Presents: 3 Steps to Optimal Health, Quality of Life, and Longevity by Dr. John Barrett ‘82. Today's lifestyle can be overly demanding and rob us of our health and quality of life. Although wellness advice is plentiful it can be confusing. With his 3 Steps, Dr. Barrett will provide a simple framework that will help you minimize stress and increase your enjoyment of life. You will learn how to easily resolve negative emotions, cultivate positive and rich emotions, and how to structure your diet to enhance the process. By practicing the 3 Steps you will find you are more focused, present in the moment, have a higher threshold for stress, have increased creativity, and an enhancement of your intuition and inner genius. With 20 years of experience in the corporate world and 20 more years as a healthcare provider, Dr. Barrett is the author of Caveman Bodies in a Corporate Jungle: How To Stay Healthy While Excelling in a Work Environment. This event is free to attend but a Zoom account is required. Questions? Contact chapters@bc.edu. Register for LA Chapter Virtual Wellness Talk Boston Chapter Networking Night: May 25 The Boston Chapter invites you to join BC alumni on Wednesday, May 25 for an evening of networking with a focus on reaching for new opportunities during a time of complex global and regional change post-COVID. Speakers will include: Bernie O’Kane '70: Director of Employee Development, Boston College Kim Meninger '97: Executive Coach & Founder, Your Career Success Aaron Horne '17: Project Manager, Trinity Financial Advanced registration for this event is required as space is limited. Your ticket price of $15 includes a buffet dinner. Register for the Boston Chapter Networking Night Reunion Weekend 2022: June 3-5 Come home to the Heights for a Reunion that’s bigger than ever! Join friends and classmates from over 25 class years for an unforgettable weekend on campus. Classmates celebrating milestone anniversaries include: Boston College: 1957, 1962, 1967, 1970, 1971, 1972, 1977, 1982, 1987, 1992, 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, and 2007. Newton College: 1955, 1956, 1957, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1970, 1971, 1972, and 1975. Register for Reunion Weekend 2022 View All Events STAY CONNECTED AND BUILD YOUR NETWORK ENGAGE WITH THE GLOBAL BC COMMUNITY Eagle Exchange is an online platform that facilitates career-related conversation between current Boston College students and alumni, and is a place where the BC network comes alive through professional conversations, connections, and mentorship. Join Today Points of Light How can we help you? Benefits & Services Career Resources Regional Chapters Classes & Reunions Councils & Groups Strategic Initiatives Financial Aid Your giving helps thousands of deserving students reach their full potential, so they can change the world—regardless of their ability to afford tuition. Learn More Parents' Leadership Council Join this diverse community of families working to prepare their children for leadership, service, and civic engagement. Learn More Schiller Institute The Schiller Institute for Integrated Science and Society will bring together cutting-edge spaces and technologies for students and faculty researchers. Learn More “We are here to create engaging programs that bring Eagles together all across the world.” Leah M. DeCosta, Associate Vice President, Alumni Relations Connect with Your BC Community The Benefits of Being an Eagle Enjoy career support, the Boston College Club, service opportunities, ways to reconnect with your classmates, and more. Alumni Benefits & Services Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok