Skip to Content Directory Maps & Directions Calendar News Library Diversity UW Seattle UW Tacoma MyUW University of Washington Bothell University of Washington Bothell Future Students Admissions Application Dates & Deadlines Campus Visit Degree Programs For Parents Orientation First Year Students Graduate International Post-Baccalaureate Returning Transfer Resources Financial Aid Food Services Housing Transportation Tuition I want to... Attend Orientation Request Information Visit UW Bothell Apply to UW Bothell » Current Students Resources Campus Safety Canvas Catalyst Financial Aid and Scholarships Food Services Registration Time Schedule Tuition Academics Academic Calendar Community-Based Learning Degrees Quantitative Skills Center Study Abroad Undergraduate Research Writing and Communication Center Student Affairs Careers Counseling Center for International Education DACA Resources Disability Resources Veterans Student Parents ASUWB Clubs and Organizations Orientation Recreation Student Affairs My UW » Schools & Programs Academic Affairs Faculty Support Institutional Research & Analysis Division of Academic Affairs Sponsored Research Schools & Programs Business Educational Studies Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences Nursing & Health Studies Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) First Year & Pre-Major Program Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Safety Directory General Faculty Organization (GFO) General Staff Organization (GSO) IT MyUW Campus Services Canvas Food Service Room Reservations Commuter Services UW Alert Work Request Working at UW Bothell Accessibility Benefits Human Resources Integrated Service Center Payroll Training and Development Work/Life Balance How do I ... Apply for a Job Contact Campus Safety Find University Forms Get a Husky Card Plan an Event Alumni & Donors Get Involved Advancement and External Relations Alumni Council Distinguished Alumni Award Give to UW Bothell Update your Contact Information UW Alumni Association Volunteer Opportunities Stay Connected Alumni News Alumni Events Annual Husky 5K Bothell Block Party UW Bothell News UW Bothell Magazine Resources Alumni Services Career Center FAQ's Lifelong Learning UW Bothell Advisory Board How do I ... Find Classmates Get my Transcript Get Tickets to Husky Sports What are you Doing now? Give to UW Bothell » Discover UW Bothell Getting to Campus Building Hours Campus Map Directions Parking Transportation About UW Bothell About Leadership Chancellor Kristin Esterberg Fast Facts Mission, Vision & Core Values News & Events 2010-2020 Annual Impact Report Construction Calendar Emergency Information News Community Community Engagement Campus Tours Employers Visitors Parents and Family Home Alumni Alumni New Graduates Update Your Contact Information Alumni Events Alumni Weekend Annual UW Husky 5K Sponsors Volunteer Bothell Block Party and Brewfest Past Event Highlights Alumni Council Position Descriptions Elections Nomination Form News & Awards Distinguished Alumni Award Alumni of the Year Award Volunteer Opportunities What Are You Doing Now? Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Alumni Welcome to the UW Bothell alumni community Quick links Bothell Husky Landing New graduates Alumni events UW Alumni Association Join us at Bothell Husky Landing Bothell Husky Landing is an engagement platform that gives UW Bothell alumni like you the opportunity to become mentors to students or fellow alumni, seek out mentoring for yourself, and search for alumni working in your fields of interest. With the ease of a drop down menu, you'll also be connected to thousands of University of Washington alumni from all three UW campuses. Activate your account today Support UW Bothell students during this time of global crisis During these times of isolation and uncertainty, many UW Bothell students are encountering financial hardship. In response, UW Bothell created the UW Bothell COVID-19 Student Emergency Fund, which is already seeing an unprecedented spike in the number of applications received. UW Bothell Alumni Council members supported the fund to the collective tune of more than $2,000! Will you join them in this tremendous show of support for UW Bothell students? Give now Become a UWAA member By graduating from UW Bothell, you earn the lifelong privilege of becoming one of more than 24,000 UW Bothell alumni (free!) and access to membership in the UW Alumni Association ($30/year). Join more than 56,000 UW grads and friends of the University of Washington who make up one of the nation's largest alumni associations. Join the pack. Stronger Together The UW Alumni Association has created the Stronger Together page, highlighting free and online resources and activities for alumni. As they put it, "Now more than ever, we need each other. By staying connected, we can continue to learn and grow, to lend a hand or an idea, to be a part of strengthening our community." #uwbproud #togetherwewill UW Bothell Alumni Council The UW Bothell Alumni Council represents Bothell graduates by providing leadership, services, events and opportunities for alumni to connect, collaborate and engage with one another and to support and build a stronger University community. Read more about the Alumni Council. UW Bothell Alumni Wine Club offered by Milbrandt Vineyards Join other UW Bothell alumni and friends at any of their 3 tasting rooms for wine tastings, discounts, mixers, parties and road trips. Join today or take the membership for a test run at the next Husky Wine Mixer. Read more about the UW Bothell Alumni Wine Club! Upcoming events Select display (list or summary) Follow us on social media Facebook Twitter Instagram University of Washington Bothell Contact Us University of Washington Bothell Alumni Engagement & Events and Ceromonies Box 358528 18115 Campus Way NE Bothell, WA 98011-8246 Phone: 425.352.5269 Fax: 425.352.5223 TDD: 425.352.5303 Email: uwbalumn@uw.edu © University of Washington Bothell Privacy Terms Site information Our Campus Academic Affairs Planning & Administration Advancement and External Relations Campus Safety Office of the Chancellor Facility Services Human Resources Parking and Transit Research Support Campus Life Accessibility Financial Aid Food Services Housing Information Technologies Student Life UW Bothell Alert Tuition Academics Canvas Catalyst Library Time Schedule Connect with us