Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Graduate School launches inclusive leadership program supporting Princeton’s anti-racism efforts by Ina Simova, Graduate School March 16, 2021, 9 a.m. Photo by Nick Barberio, Office of Communications Thirty-three Princeton graduate students co-created and completed the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort (ILLC) in fall 2020. The GradFUTURES Professional Development and Access, Diversity and Inclusion teams at the Graduate School led this new initiative, partnering with graduate students to shape the program as a platform for anti-racism efforts. The cohort’s focus on inclusive leadership is part of the University’s campus-wide campaign to confront America’s record of structural inequality and racism as well as Princeton’s place in that history. Graduate student participants in the inaugural cohort joined Princeton’s broader efforts to redress discrimination and marginalization. The cohort centers on the understanding that local action and individual commitment are paramount for achieving significant and sustainable change. “We partnered with graduate students to design this program because we see inclusive leadership training as both critical for graduate students' individual leadership development and essential for building a collective movement to support lasting structural change,” noted Eva Kubu, associate dean and director of professional development for the Graduate School. The ILLC is structured as a co-curricular certificate. Participants submit a series of reflections on topics addressed in each workshop and an individual action plan outlining the next steps in moving their ideas forward at the conclusion of the series. More than 60 graduate students from all four academic divisions attended the various sessions and 33 students completed the program requirements. Previous Slide◀︎ Next Slide▶︎ Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Xueqing Wang Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo courtesy of Maya Chung Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo courtesy of Susan Iseyen Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Sameer A. Khan/Fotobuddy Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Brad Bachu Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Michael Franken Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Arunraj Balaji Participants in the Graduate School’s inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort share their takeaways from their intensive study of the ways in which bias impacts our work environments. Photo by Ahmed Shady The ILLC is action-oriented: It supports graduate students as they develop concrete and targeted inclusion strategies and practices they plan to implement in their respective spheres of influence. The ILLC’s first iteration featured 10 workshops in which graduate students explored topics including strategies to identify and address unconscious bias, grant writing and representation of people of color in STEM, and the relationship between diversity and innovation. “What made the ILLC special was the combined emphasis on self-reflection and the application of strategies and practices that our graduate students were able to immediately implement in their personal, professional and scholarly endeavors,” commented Renita Miller, the Graduate School’s associate dean for access, diversity and inclusion. In the first iteration of the ILLC, nearly half of the 33 individual action plans involved changes graduate students intend to lead on campus, often in conjunction with their departments. Action plans focused on a wide array of solutions, including promoting inclusive and equity-minded teaching, research and citation practices; designing equitable admissions recruitment processes; addressing voter suppression across the state; and building systems to support social and environmental justice for low-income communities of color. Cohort participants reflected on the ways the ILLC’s topics related to their own experiences. Laura Bustamante, a Ph.D. candidate in neuroscience, shared that the discussion of the concepts of “covering” and “culture-add” led by Tamika Curry Smith, president of The TCS Group, Inc., and a diversity and inclusion advocate and strategist, resonated most with her. Covering refers to the practice of downplaying a stigmatized part of one’s identity to avoid experiencing bias in a variety of contexts, including the workplace. Culture-add is based on the recognition that the strategic hiring of people from heterogeneous demographics and backgrounds brings diverse skillsets and problem-solving strategies that are superior to homogenous work cultures. “Learning that 60% of people are covering marginalized parts of their identity was really powerful and inspired me to think of small ways to ‘uncover’ myself to make space for my research group to do the same,” Bustamante explained. Expanding on her learning experience, Bustamante noted that the concept of culture-add highlights the fact that when we bring people together with diverse knowledge and working styles, and encourage them to express that in our teams, it adds to the team. “A lot of hiring conversations hinge around culture fit,” Bustamante continued, “and people can have an affinity for others who they see as like them. Knowing these realities can help us work consciously towards diverse teams. As I continue to be a mentor, and eventually build a research group, I will certainly bring these lessons with me.” In order to tackle such structural problems, the ILLC participants eschewed a narrow definition of inclusive leadership in favor of a capacious and highly personalized understanding of the engagement it requires. Rather than an abstract psychological profile, the graduate students conceived of the work of inclusive leadership as a set of concrete interventions, such as advocating for a strong commitment to nondiscriminatory and diversifying admissions policies, and developing inclusive teaching practices. Self-reflection leading to action was a central takeaway of the ILLC initiative. Elizaveta Mankovskaia, a Ph.D. candidate in Slavic languages and literatures, noted that what she valued the most about the series “was the learning community and a chance to hear fellow graduate students reflect on issues and solutions for becoming an inclusive leader.” Mankovskaia said she appreciated the focus on “practicable and individualized strategies of advocacy and change” rooted in each participant’s “individual traits and their personal plan to build and sustain an inclusive environment." The cohort is intended to become a fixture within GradFUTURES’ programming. Following the first cohort completion ceremony on Jan. 12, Mankovskaia and the other ILLC participants commented that they look forward to expanding the initiative’s scope and outreach during its next iteration this spring. An information session is scheduled on March 18 for graduate students interested in joining the cohort. For more information about subsequent iterations of the ILLC, consult the program’s webpage or contact Eva Kubu at ekubu@princeton.edu. Ina Simova, a Ph.D. candidate in comparative literature, was a participant in the inaugural Inclusive Leadership Learning Cohort. Related Stories An update on Princeton’s ongoing efforts to address systemic racism Read more Graduate School reimagines professional development for students Read more GradFUTURES Forum to highlight professional development for graduate students Read more An update and overview of Princeton University’s ongoing efforts to combat systemic racism Read more Funding allocated to begin implementing diversity task force recommendations Read more Grad students and nonprofits are learning from each other in a partnership for the public good Read more New Princeton-Techstars bootcamp boosts entrepreneurship for graduate students and postdocs Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice