Skip to main content Main navigation Mobile Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Main navigation Educational Programs Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Courses Academic Calendars & Policies Admissions & Aid Master's Program Admissions Executive Education Admissions Doctoral Program Admissions Funding Your Education Faculty & Research Faculty Profiles Publications Policy Topics PolicyCast Library & Knowledge Services Centers & Initiatives Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs Carr Center for Human Rights Policy Center for International Development Center for Public Leadership Institute of Politics Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Business and Government Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy Taubman Center for State and Local Government Women and Public Policy Program All Initiatives Alumni Connect Volunteer Give Back Benefits Events About More COVID-19: Keep HKS Healthy Commencement About News & Announcements Events Student Life Directory Employers HKS Magazine Contact Us Search Search Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 Saturday, May 28 - Sunday, May 29, 2022 You are here Home Events Commencement Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 We are delighted to welcome our HKS Classes of 2020 and 2021 back to campus Saturday, May 28 and Sunday, May 29, 2022 for an unforgettable and joyous Commencement. Nothing can replace the energy and excitement of being together. This Commencement is a true celebration of these remarkable and resilient HKS graduates—and their families, friends, and loved ones who have supported them—and is an affirmation of our community’s strength and spirit. We look forward to giving them proper send-offs from the heart of Harvard Yard and the Harvard Kennedy School campus. The current schedule of events is below—it will be updated often as new information is confirmed. The Class of 2020 and 2021 graduates will continue to receive details about their celebrations in the coming weeks. Schedule of Events Event times and locations are subject to change. Please read the HKS Commencement Week COVID Protocols. *HKS Class of 2022 graduates who were either in the fall flex program or originally members of the Class of 2021 but took leaves of absence are invited to join the degree program celebrations and graduates reception on Saturday, May 28. They are also invited to attend the Class of 2020 and 2021 HKS Commencement Ceremony as guests on Sunday, May 29. Saturday, May 28 MPP, MPA/ID, MPA, and MC/MPA Degree Program Celebrations, 2-4 p.m.* | HKS Campus Graduates reconnect and reminisce with their degree program classmates in gatherings organized by their degree program teams and class marshals. Graduates Reception, 4-6 p.m.* | HKS Campus Class of 2020 and 2021 graduates come together for a joyful reunion and celebration. Graduates may bring guests. Due to the severe weather forecast, this event will be held indoors. Food and drink will be available across all levels of the Forum, and in Dining, and Wexner Commons. Reception attendees are strongly encouraged to wear a mask and lower/replace when taking a sip or a bite. Sunday, May 29 | Commencement Day Graduates must wear full academic regalia at all Commencement Day celebrations. You may wear your keepsake regalia if purchased for your Class of 2021 virtual graduation celebration. University-wide Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, 8 a.m. | Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard university campus U.S. Attorney General Merrick B. Garland will address the graduates. Details will continue to be shared by the University in the coming weeks. Graduates receive three (3) guest tickets for this event. Class of 2020 and 2021 HKS Commencement Ceremony, approximately 11 a.m.* | John F. Kennedy Memorial Park | Livestream This intimate ceremony is held directly following the University-wide Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Graduates’ names are called as they walk across the stage and they are photographed in their regalia. Guests do not need tickets to attend the HKS Commencement Ceremony. Graduating Student Profiles Jamaji and Onyema Nwanaji-Enwerem MPP 2021: Injecting their medical training with public policy skills Jeremy Ney MPA 2021: Helping others achieve the American dream Ganchimeg Ganpurev MPA/ID 2021: A mission to develop equality Learning how to think about the big questions From Santiago to Cambridge to Paris The many passions of Aroop Mukharji PhD 2020 See all profiles Looking Back: 2021 Looking Back: 2020 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 617-495-1100 Ask What You Can Do Master’s Programs Executive Education Doctoral Programs Public Leadership Credential Admissions Events Give Now Alumni Jobs Contact Us Privacy Web Accessibility Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College. https://www.facebook.com/harvardkennedyschool/ https://twitter.com/kennedy_school https://www.linkedin.com/school/harvard-kennedy-school-of-government/ https://www.youtube.com/user/HarvardKennedySchool http://instagram.com/harvardkennedyschool/