Skip to main content Clemson University Degrees Home Degree Programs MENU Marketing (B.S.) LEARN MORE ABOUT A major in marketing begins at the end — with consumers. But it's more than just creating an ad campaign that inspires people to buy a product. Our students quickly discover that marketing is about creating value for consumers, finding their needs, discovering their desires and promoting a product that they will then purchase. Consumer behavior, assessing market evaluations, research, international implications, price point determinations and efficient distribution chains are some of the things you'll encounter while building, not just a product, but a brand. We'll teach you how to define and speak to a target audience in order to get a desired response, and you'll leave knowing how to establish a customer-centered business. FAST FACTS Each spring, marketing professors take select students to New York City to meet with the top marketing and advertising firms in the nation. Our department has been recognized by the American Marketing Association's Marketing News for emphasis upon undergraduate education that integrates classroom theory with industry practice. If you're interesting in marketing, on the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a pre-business major. WHAT YOU'LL STUDY All students interested in Clemson's marketing degree must first complete a pre-business core curriculum in order to move into the upper-level degree classes. On the Clemson admissions application, you'll apply as a pre-business major. While marketing offers the opportunity for creative expression not found in many other business disciplines, it is still rooted in facts and data. Throughout your classes, you'll learn the fundamentals of marketing — in-depth study of consumer behavior, promotional strategy, professional selling and marketing research. Students interested in a career in sales can take specialized coursework through the Sales Innovation Program that will develop their business acumen, selling framework and presentation ability. Those who wish to gain a competitive edge as future job applicants can also pursue a sales certificate that provides real-world challenges and leadership opportunities. No matter where your passions lie, Clemson's marketing major provides our students with a broad range of knowledge and allows flexibility to choose classes that will enhance your career preparation goals in various areas of marketing. This degree will provide you the conceptual, quantitative and analytical skills necessary to function in a dynamic business environment whether that is a career in industry, government or even the nonprofit sector. Or, if you'd prefer to continue your education after graduation, you'll be well equipped to enter into a Master of Marketing Research, law or other graduate programs. Curriculum Marketing, B.S. Popular Minors Brand Communications Communication Studies Financial Management Management Modern Languages Psychology Similar Majors Communication (B.A.) Graphic Communications (B.S.) EXPERIENCES BEYOND THE CLASSROOM As a marketing student at Clemson, you'll conduct research in the classroom and outside in the marketplace. With opportunities provided by the excellent faculty and advisers, you'll participate in real-world projects for marketing companies around the nation as well as those on Clemson's campus. Network Join with other students in the Clemson University Marketing Association to network with local professionals and hone your skills so you can excel in the business world. Compete Every spring, marketing students participate in the American Advertising Federation Student Advertising Competition, as well as the National Collegiate Sales Competition. Hands-on Learning Work on real-world projects for well-known companies. In recent years, our students have partnered with companies such as Honda, Chevrolet, NASCAR and Clemson Athletics. Experience Each spring, marketing faculty take select students on a trip to New York City to meet with leading marketing and advertising firms. The week often culminates in a chance to network with alumni at the annual CBBS NYC alumni reception. iSELL The iSELL student organization coordinates, plans, markets and produces the annual Tiger Paw Classic golf tournament each spring, giving students over 100 hours of sales training and experience and making them excellent prospects for employment.Learn More » Community Participate in a living-learning experience where you live and learn with peer business majors in a dedicated residence hall. Take part in educational and extracurricular activities while forming lifelong friendships.Learn More » CONNECT WITH OTHER STUDENTS Clemson Marketing Association AFTER GRADUATION Your college decision isn't really about the next four years. We get it. It's about what doors are opened by your degree and whether those opportunities are what you had envisioned for yourself. Here's a snapshot of what life after graduation looks like for some of our most recent students. WHERE OUR RECENT GRADUATES HAVE GONE KEY 41-100% 21-40% 11-20% 0-10% RECENT EMPLOYERS Strategy and Operations Analyst Deloitte Inside Sales Representative Exact Sciences Leadership Development Program: Outdoor Event Marketing Specialist TTI Discovery Representative SYNNEX Associate Sales Executive Arthrex RECENT POSTGRADUATE STUDIES Ph.D. Marketing Duke University M.S. Marketing Research University of Georgia MBA, M.S. Marketing Clemson University M.S. Marketing Vanderbilt University Ph.D. Marketing University of Miami COMMON CAREER AREAS Sales and Promotion Industrial Sales Wholesale Sales Direct Marketing Consumer Product Sales Financial Services Sales Services Sales Advertising Sales E-commerce Sales Management Promotion: Consumer Trade Sales Force Customer Service Brand and Product Management Market Research Primary and Secondary Data Collection Field Service Data Analysis Retail Buying and Management Purchasing and Procurement Banking Credit Analysis Lending Trust Services Mortgage Loans Operations Insurance Real Estate Used with permission from the University of Tennessee. FIND OUT MORE Have more questions or want more information? Fill out the form below, which goes directly to the following department contact. If you’d also like to receive general University information from Clemson’s admissions office, please follow the link to the right and sign up to join our mailing list. Jake Anderson Recruiter manders@clemson.edu Department Website College Website Loading... Department Website College Website Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Line Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright © 2015 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Search Clemson University degrees Clemson Degree Programs Search Alphabetical List Schedule a Visit Campus Life Admissions Costs & Financial Aid Similar Majors To Marketing (B.S.) Communication (B.A.) Graphic Communications (B.S.)