By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Life Accessibility & Diversity LGBTQ Resource Center More from this Section Report a Concern Diversity & Inclusion Center for International Services Religious Groups Disability Cultural Center STOP Bias and Hate Multicultural Affairs Accessible Syracuse Women in Leadership Initiative The LGBTQ Resource Center Diversity is something we not only foster, but celebrate. At Syracuse University, we learn from and lean on each other. At the center of our efforts to create a respectful, just, and inclusive community, the LGBTQ Resource Center provides resources, programming, and advocacy designed to build a stronger and safer place that celebrates our individuality together. Connect with the LGBTQ Resource Center Our mission Support LGBTQ+ and questioning students explore the complexity of their identities and connect them with existing campus resources. Collaborate with University partners to advise on campus climate issues, policies, practices, and advocate for the LGBTQ+ community. Provide the campus community with educational opportunities and outreach on current LGBTQ+ issues that affect the student experience. Integrate LGBTQ+ representation across University programming initiatives. Resources We provide intentional spaces for discussion, opportunities for self-reflection and learning, and platforms for community building. We encourage you to explore our wide range of opportunities and connect with a network of support and purpose. Trainings Safe Zone Safe Zone is a campus-wide program provided by the LGBTQ Resource Center committed to making Syracuse University safer, more welcoming, and an inclusive environment for members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ+) community. Trans 101 The Trans 101 workshop builds off of the LGBTQ Resource Center’s LGBTQ+ 101 and Safe Zone workshops to offer a training specifically focused on transgender issues. LGBTQ+101 LGBTQ+ 101 training will offer basic terminology and definitions, an explanation of the barriers to queer and trans inclusivity, an exercise on privilege, and an overview of services and resources available at Syracuse University. This workshop is run through the Wellness Leadership Institute at the Barnes Center at the Arch. Pronoun Competency Workshop Syracuse University MySlice portal now includes pronoun options! We encourage all students, staff, and faculty to select and share their pronouns in the portal. Affinity Groups Trans Affinity Group A group for trans, nonbinary, genderqueer, and gender questioning individuals at SU and ESF. QTPOC Affinity Group A group for queer and trans students of color at SU and ESF. LGBTQ+ Faculty/Staff Affinity Group A group for faculty and staff at SU and ESF who identify as LGBTQ+. Social Events LGBTQ+ History Month Each October, we present a month of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer, and asexual themed programming. Creating Change Every winter, we fund a delegation of undergraduates to attend this national LGBTQ leadership conference. Trans Day of Liberation In April, we host a speaker or performer who gives voice to the lives, identities, possibilities, and experiences of trans communities. Lavender Graduation Lavender Graduation is an annual gathering of faculty, staff, students, and community members to celebrate and send off LGBTQIA+ members of the graduating class. Formerly known as the Rainbow Banquet, this ceremony includes an alumni guest speaker, recognition of graduating students, and presentation of lavender cord. For more information on any of these opportunities, visit lgbt.syr.edu, call 315.443.0228, or email lgbt@syr.edu. Campus Policies Syracuse University’s policies and procedures uphold our beliefs in equality without discrimination. Non-Discrimination/Equal Opportunity Policy Employee Non-Discrimination/Anti-Harassment Policy Sexual Harassment, Abuse, and Assault Prevention Policy Student Same-Sex Domestic Partnership Policy Faculty & Staff Benefits Eligibility Policy LGBTQ+ Living Learning Communities LGBTQ+ Living Learning Community - Located in 210 Women’s Building, 820 Comstock Ave, Syracuse, New York 13244. Related Pages Link Gender Services Link LGBTQIA+ Therapy Group Link Related Minors Link LGBTQ Studies Link Featured Stories Being an LGBTQ Student at Syracuse One of the many reasons I decided to attend SU was the amount of pride the school takes in supporting the LGBTQ community and ensuring a prejudice-free educational environment for everyone. Related Pages Intergroup Dialogue We seek to increase understanding of social identities in the context of systems of inequality. Transgender Rights Toolkit Within this Transgender Rights Toolkit, readers will find answers to many questions that transgender people and their advocates may ask as they navigate through life. The Counseling Center Our Counseling Center offers you a strong support network that is staffed with counselors who are dedicated to your well-being. Related Minors LGBTQ Studies Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy