Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Health Administration MHA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Health Administration MHA Apply Events Request More Info Health Administration MHA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Health Administration Deepen your knowledge of the healthcare industry, including its challenges, opportunities and trends with a Master of Health Administration (MHA) from Temple University’s Fox School of Business. The MHA is a 30-credit master’s-level professional degree designed to help current healthcare professionals advance their careers and become leaders in the industry. The health and social services sector is the fastest-growing industry in the U.S. economy, representing 18 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. Through the Master of Health Administration, students gain the specialized knowledge and leadership expertise to stand apart and progress professionally in this dynamic field. Students in the MHA program learn to apply financial analysis and modeling to facilitate diagnosis and decision-making; build translatable leadership and consulting skills for different areas of healthcare; identify and evaluate opportunities in the current business environment; and manage business operations effectively in global, regional and organizational cultures. You will have the opportunity to study in Philadelphia—home to some of the most esteemed healthcare organizations in the country. The location of this master’s program gives students access to regional data, live case representations and guest lecturers who offer real-world insights into a complex, ever-evolving industry. Coursework in the program covers subjects including current trends and future outlooks in healthcare; emerging health markets and information technology; healthcare economics; history of the healthcare system in the U.S. and contemporary policies; and regulatory compliance and ethics. The program is designed to meet the needs of busy working professionals, with flexible class times and locations. Students can complete the program requirements on a part-time basis with courses offered online, on Main Campus and on Temple’s Center City campus. Students have up to five years to complete their MHA. Request Information Learn more about the Health Administration MHA program. Apply Now Ready to apply? Submit your graduate application. Learn More Explore all of the specialized master's programs at Fox. Request Information Apply Learn More Benjamin Ristau Assistant Professor, UConn Health "[Thanks to the Master of Health Administration,] I now have an understanding of how things work outside of clinical medicine and a sense of the bigger picture of healthcare on both a local and national level." Classes & Curriculum Examples of core courses for the MHA program include the following. Financial Management of Healthcare Organizations Healthcare Organizational Leadership and Strategy Advanced Health Economics and Finance In addition to the required courses, students may take electives in areas such as analytics, human resources and project management—to support learning based on individual and professional interest. Elective courses available include Business Strategy in a Global Environment, Creativity Unleashed: Harnessing Creativity to Solve Real-World Innovation Challenges, and Visualization: The Art of Numbers and the Psychology of Persuasion. Learn more about Master of Health Administration courses. Related Graduate Degrees Applied Biostatistics MPH* Business Administration MBA Clinical Research and Translational Medicine MS* Health Informatics MS* Health Policy and Health Services Research PhD* Health Policy and Management MPH* Human Resource Management MS Related Graduate Certificates Clinical Health Services Research* Healthcare Innovation Management Health Informatics* Health Outcomes and Measurement Science* Public Health Law Research* *College of Public Health Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Health Administration offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,218.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,276.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For more information about the Health Administration MHA degree program, contact the following faculty member. Barry Griffiths is the associate director of graduate enrollment. Phone: 215-204-3960 Email: griffiths@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Joining student clubs and organizations is a great way to meet like-minded students; connect with local, national and international businesses; and enhance the skills you use in your professional career. Fox offers more than 30 student professional organizations. Supplement your academic experience by participating in a club related to your major or interests. The following clubs and organizations are available to students in Fox. The Fox Graduate Student Association connects students and alumni with the greater Fox community, providing professional development, networking and volunteer opportunities for graduate students. The mission of Net Impact is to grow and strengthen a network of leaders who use the power of business to make a positive economic, environmental and social impact. It brings together students seeking to network and to use the power of business to create a better world. The International Business Association brings together students from all over the world to learn about foreign business and the global economy, and offers an array of professional development opportunities. Fox Professional Speakers invites students to practice their communication, presentation and leadership skills in a supportive and positive environment. Those with dreams of starting their own business may be interested in the Entrepreneurial Students Association, which aims to support, inspire and encourage students to pursue their entrepreneurial goals. The association is open to students of all majors. See a full list of student clubs and organizations. Global Immersions Fox graduate students can participate in Global Immersions. They are destination-focused learning experiences that allow graduate students to engage with a different country's culture, language and business practices. Global Immersions expose students to comparative business environments, global business in emerging markets, global companies working to solve crucial problems, intensive and diverse learning experiences, and international innovation and entrepreneurship. Previous destinations include China, India, Latin America and South Africa. Recent participating companies include Black and Decker, BMW, Deloitte, Microsoft and SanDisk. Learn more about Global Immersion Programs. Temple also offers interested students a variety of options for pursuing internship, teaching and volunteer opportunities abroad through the Center for International Business and Research. Learn more about your options for studying or working abroad. Accreditation The Fox School of Business is accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The school has maintained AACSB accreditation since 1934. BU-HADM-MHA Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Health Administration MHA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Events Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Events Request More Info