Skip to Main Content Brown University Graduate Programs Search Menu Graduate Programs Computational Biology Ph.D. school Graduate School Inquire Apply All Graduate Programs Navigate This Page Navigate This Page About the Program Admission Information Completion Requirements Leadership Contact and Location The Center for Computational Molecular Biology (CCMB) offers Ph.D. degrees in Computational Biology to train the next generation of scientists to perform cutting edge research in the multidisciplinary field of Computational Biology. During the course of their Ph.D. studies students will develop and apply novel computational, mathematical , and statistical techniques to problems in the life sciences. Students in this program must achieve mastery in three areas - computational science, molecular biology, and probability and statistical inference - through a common core of studies that spans and integrates these areas. The Ph.D. program in Computational Biology draws on course offerings from the disciplines of the Center’s Core faculty members. These areas are Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, the Division of Biology and Medicine, the Center for Biomedical Informatics, and the School of Public Health. Our faculty and Director of Graduate Studies work with each student to develop the best plan of coursework and research rotations to meet the student’s goals in their research focus and satisfy the University’s requirements for graduation. Applicants should state a preference for at least one of these areas in their personal statement or elsewhere in their application. In addition, students interested in the intersection of Applied Mathematics and Computational Biology are encouraged to apply directly to the Applied Mathematics Ph.D. program, and also to contact relevant CCMB faculty members. Our Ph.D. program assumes the following prerequisites: mathematics through intermediate calculus, linear algebra and discrete mathematics, demonstrated programming skill, and at least one undergraduate course in chemistry and in molecular biology. Exceptional strengths in one area may compensate for limited background in other areas, but some proficiency across the disciplines must be evident for admission. Additional Resources CCMB computing resources include a set of multiprocessor computer clusters and data storage servers with 392 processors. The CCMB Cluster is the largest dedicated computing system on campus for computational biology and bioinformatics applications. See also answers to frequently asked questions. Admission Information Inquire Apply Admission Requirements GRE Subject: Not required GRE General: Not required Personal Statement: In the personal statement, please state the preferred degree or track you intend to pursue. Dates/Deadlines Admission Deadline December 13, 2021 Completion Requirements Six graduate–level courses, two eight–week laboratory rotations, preliminary research presentation, dissertation, oral defense Leadership Center Director Sohini Ramachandran sohini_ramachandran@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Erica Larschan erica_larschan@brown.edu Director of Graduate Studies Sohini Ramachandran sohini_ramachandran@brown.edu Contact and Location Center for Computational Molecular Biology Location Address 164 Angell Street, 3rd floor Mailing Address Brown University Box 1903 ccmb@brown.edu 401-863-3178 Center for Computational Molecular Biology Resources Program Faculty Program Handbook Graduate School Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home Graduate School School of Engineering School of Professional Studies School of Public Health Warren Alpert Medical School This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Computational Biology Open details for Computational Biology Bookmark this Page