By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Cost & Aid Apply for Aid Undergraduate In this Section Federal Verification Renewing Financial Aid Application Process for Undergraduates All students seeking aid are required to file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This is the application for federal student aid. You may also choose to apply for a Syracuse University Grant. A grant is money that does not have to be repaid. You’ll need to file the CSS/Financial Aid PROFILE to do so. Please be sure to meet the financial aid filing deadlines . Applications submitted after the deadline may be awarded on a funds available basis. To apply for 2022-2023 financial aid, complete the: 2022-2023 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) - to file for federal financial aid 2022-2023 CSS/Financial Aid Profile - to apply for Syracuse University Grant Read more at Federal Student Aid . To Apply for Federal Aid Please file the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) , using Syracuse University’s School Code: 002882. To Apply for a Syracuse University Grant Please file the following: FAFSA , using Syracuse University’s School Code: 002882. College Scholarship Service (CSS)/Financial Aid PROFILE , using Syracuse University’s School Code: 2823. The required CSS/PROFILE processing fee may be waived by CSS if you’re a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen, first-time college applicant whose family has limited income and assets. Other Forms that May be Required Noncustodial Profile (NCP) : This form may be required if your parents are separated or divorced, or were never married to each other. Income tax forms: You will be notified if your income tax returns are required. Parent information may be requested of students who are independent due to age, according to information provided on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). After You Apply Your financial aid applications will be reviewed and you will be notified of your eligibility after you are admitted to Syracuse University. You must reapply for financial aid each year. Federal and state regulations, funding availability, and University policy factor into determining your award. Your Syracuse award notice may contain any of the following: Syracuse merit scholarships–awarded only at the time of admission, in recognition of prior academic achievement. No separate application is required. Syracuse need-based grants Federal and state grants Student loans Employment eligibility Outside scholarships and/or tuition benefits MySlice: Keep Track of Forms and Applications After you apply for admission, you’ll receive instructions for accessing MySlice, your secure virtual gateway to life at Syracuse. This portal will keep you up-to-date on the financial aid application forms and documents you need to submit to the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Check it often to stay current on requirements and deadlines. Special Circumstances Sometimes special circumstances can impact a student's financial aid situation, including certain living arrangements or family situations that may change during your time at Syracuse University. This may result in the need to clarify your situation with the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs. Read more about Special Circumstances . Federal Verification The U.S. Department of Education selects students each year for verification, and requires that our office confirm the data that was supplied by the student, spouse, and/or parents. Read more about verification . Renewing Financial Aid To renew your financial aid, you will need to file the aid applications and forms each year as listed on your MySlice Financial Aid To Do List before the deadline . Applications submitted after the deadline will be considered on a funds available basis. Federal aid eligibility is determined by regulation, your eligibility, and funding availability. Changes in family financial circumstance (income, assets, number of household members attending undergraduate school, etc.) will affect your financial need and aid eligibility. Read further details about renewing financial aid , including renewing scholarships, Syracuse Grants, maintaining Satisfactory Progress, enrollment requirements, etc. View more information about financial aid for part-time students . Next Cost of Attendance Related Pages Financial Aid Tips Navigating finances, FAFSA, loans, and scams can seem daunting. Here are some tips to make the process easier and more understandable. Speak with a Financial Aid Counselor The Office of Financial Aid and Scholarship Programs is here to assist you and make the financial aid process as easy as possible. Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions or concerns. Special Circumstances Sometimes special circumstances can impact a student's financial aid situation, including certain living arrangements or family situations that may change during your time at Syracuse University. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy