Schedule an Advising Appointment Email About us Academic advising at the UW Working with us Our people Springboard Contact us COVID-19 Update Degree overview Your UW degree General education Overview Requirements by college and school Majors List of Undergraduate Majors Majors by Topic Majors and Careers Double degree and double major Departmental & Major Advising Offices Satisfactory Progress Policy and Pre-major Extension Minors Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement Academic support Getting started Finding help Dropping classes Satisfactory progress policy and pre-major extension Academic warning/probation Reinstatement for College of Arts & Sciences Frequently asked questions Student guides Overview First-year Second-year Transfer First-generation International student guide Faculty & Staff Home > Home > Academic planning > Co-curricular engagement Co-curricular engagement Why Engage in Co-Curricular Learning? At the University of Washington your Husky Experience will be a mix of academic and co-curriculuar experiences crafted to fit your interests and goals. Some of your most enriching experiences at the UW may take place outside of the classroom and beyond your formal academic curriculum. Your personal growth and academic interests will converge in a variety of co-curricular opportunities across campus aimed to help you connect what you're learning in your coursework with real world application. With so many ways to engage, your challenge will be to decide where to start. Undergraduate Research Undergraduate research at the University of Washington occurs in each discipline across our vast academic programs. Engaging in research can help you connect with faculty, learn about the interdisciplinary nature of academic pathways, explore academic interests, and develop tangible skill sets. Many students get involved in research before they are even in a major! Find Research at the UW Undergraduate Research Program Undergraduate Research Database Undergraduate Research Symposium Mary Gates Endowment for Students Earning Academic Credit for Research Undergraduate Research Workshops Research Courses Community Engagement Engaging with campus and local communities not only provides opportunities for personal growth and development, but also helps you form a supportive community of friends and collegaues here on campus. We encourage you to join more than one community and explore options beyond your academic interests. Find Community at the UW Career & Internship Center Interest Communities Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center Q Center wǝɫǝbʔaltxʷIntellectual House Student Veteran Life CIRCLE D Center Leadership without Borders Community Engagement & Leadership Education (CELE) Center Registered Student Organizations International Experience An international experience enhances your leadership competencies, and cross-cultural communication and awareness. Additionally, you gain exposure to diverse cultures and perspectives that transform you into an engaged and informed global citizen. At the University of Washington there are many ways to engage in an international experience both locally and globally. International Engagement at UW Find a Study Abroad Program Study Abroad Advising Global Learning Opportunities by School/College FIUTS Global Research, Internships, and Service Programs Center for International Relations & Cultural Leadership Exchange (CIRCLE) Unite UW Work Experience & Internships Work experience outside of the classroom is a key way to develop tangible skills and test career hypotheses to prepare for life after UW. Work and internship experience (paid or unpaid) allows you to hone your leadership skills, develop your resume, and improve your critical thinking, interpersonal skills, and practical competence. Work and Internship Support Career & Internship Center Career Resources by Interest Area Search for Jobs and Internships on Handshake On Campus Employment Internship Resources Undergraduate Community Based Internships Career Events Service Learning & Volunteering Participating in service learning and volunteering activities allows you to apply your learning to real life scenarios. When engaging with the local community you implement real life skills such as empathy, critical thinking, cultural awareness, and civic participation. Service Learning & Volunteering Opportunities Community Engagement & Leadership Education (CELE) Center Browse for Service Learning Positions Volunteer at UW Medicine Volunteer with Population Health ASUW Volunteer Positions Service Learning FAQ Academic planning Plan your degree For new students For prospective transfer students Transfer Newsletter Pre-health/pre-law Choosing your major/courses Registration restrictions Cross-campus registration Placement testing Chemistry, math, & physics Academic terms and policies Co-curricular engagement University of Washington Be boundless UAA Advising catalyzes the broad learning of UW Undergraduates. As educators, we guide and support students in exploring, questioning, and navigating the events and significance of their undergraduate education. As a team of experienced practitioners and engaged scholars we serve the UW and the greater higher education community. Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA