Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions Commencement 2022 Commencement & Reunion 2020-21 Harvard Commencement Schedule Awards Videos …→ Harvard Business School→ Commencement 2022→ Schedule→ Schedule Schedule May 25 Wednesday, May 25 8:30 - 10:00 AM Dean’s Award Breakfast Deans House The Dean’s Award honors graduating MBA students for making a positive impact on the HBS community and contributing to the well-being of society through exceptional acts of leadership. Award recipients and their guests are invited. 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM HBS Leadership Fellows Brunch Chao Center, Yi Ren Room The HBS Leadership Fellows program gives a select group of graduating HBS students the chance to make an impact in nonprofit and public-sector organizations at a competitive salary for one year. Fellows and their guests are invited. 11:30 AM – 1:30 PM George F. Baker Scholar Luncheon Spangler Center, Williams Room Students who receive an MBA with High Distinction degree are known as Harvard Business School’s Baker Scholars. Baker Scholars and their guests are invited. 1:00 – 2:00 PM Portrait Project Chao 120 This photo and essay project featuring Class of 2022 students will kick off with an exhibition open to the HBS community. The exhibition will be on display in Spangler Lounge May 26-30. →View Past Portrait Projects 2:30 – 4:00 PM Class Day Ceremony Baker Lawn (rain or shine) Remarks by Class of 2022 Co-Presidents Brett Andersen & Irvin Gomez followed by student Class Day speaker Peter James Kiernan, faculty awards presentation, and Class Day Distinguished speaker Robert L. Ryan, MBA 1970. Open to graduates, their guests, and HBS faculty and staff (no tickets required). →Listen to Robert Ryan on Skydeck May 26 Thursday, May 26 6:45 AM Opening of the Gates to Harvard Yard Gates to Harvard Yard open for Morning Commencement Exercises (tickets required). Limited seating; early arrival recommended. Each graduating student receives two tickets to give to two guests. 6:55 AM Morning Commencement Exercise Assembly Chao Center Degree candidates assemble in front of the Chao Center for the procession to Harvard Yard for the Morning Commencement Exercise. Academic regalia is required. Graduating students only need their Harvard ID to enter Harvard Yard. 8:30 – 11:30 AM Harvard University Commencement Exercises Harvard Yard (rain or shine) Simulcast location: Klarman Hall Each graduating student receives two tickets to give to two guests. Graduating students only need their Harvard ID to enter Harvard Yard. 11:30 AM – 12:30 PM MBA Lunch Shad Hall and Tennis Courts MBA graduates are each given 5 tickets, 1 for the graduate and 4 for invited guests. 12:30 – 2:45 PM HBS Diploma Ceremony Baker Lawn Guests, faculty, and staff are invited to watch graduates receive their diplomas on stage, rain or shine. No tickets required. Note: Graduates sit with their section. 1:30 – 4:00 PM Doctoral Lunch Williams Room, Spangler Hall Doctoral graduates and their guests are invited. 3:00 – 4:30 PM Reception Shad Tennis Courts No tickets required. Parking Parking will be available at HBS (free on Commencement Day) in the Spangler Lot and the SFP and OWA parking garages. Historically, the parking garages have had enough capacity to accommodate all guests. Overflow parking is available at the Harvard Football Stadium using the Gate 8 entrance. →Campus Map & Directions Security Harvard Business School Campus In an effort to provide a safe and secure environment on Baker Library Lawn for the Class Day and Commencement celebrations, normal-size handbags, purses, and camera bags will be allowed and will be subject to search by security personnel. Please do not bring large-size bags, backpacks, luggage, briefcases, gift bags, wrapped gifts, packages, or balloons to the lawn area. Do you have a family member or guest traveling with a security detail? Please contact Mike Murphy at mimurphy@hbs.edu for more information. Harvard Yard Ceremony Harvard Yard gates open at 6:45 AM. All guests will be required to show a Commencement ticket to security personnel at the gate. Guests should be seated by 8:30 AM for the start of the Commencement ceremony. Guest will be screened with hand wand magnetometers by security personnel. No backpacks, strollers, duffle bags, or pouches will be allowed into the Harvard Yard. Handbags and pocketbooks will be searched by security. Text Updates & Alerts To receive event updates, including for severe weather, or emergency messages while on campus, text HBSGRAD to 888777. You'll receive an automated confirmation. Following Commencement Day, you'll be removed automatically from the system. Standard text-messaging/data rates may apply. Extreme Weather Ceremonies will be held outdoors, rain or shine. In the event of extreme weather (lightning, high winds), HBS will implement a Severe Weather Plan. In the case of severe weather on Class Day, only graduating students with Harvard IDs go to Klarman Hall Auditorium. All guests will be directed to Spangler Auditorium, Aldrich, and Hawes classrooms for simulcast. In the case of severe weather for the HBS Diploma Ceremony on Thursday, MBA graduates are directed to Klarman Hall; guests are directed to watch the livestream in Spangler Auditorium, Aldrich, or Hawes (limited seating will be available); the ceremony for Doctoral graduates and guests will take place in the Spangler Center Williams Room. Harvard will feature a live webcast of the exercises on its website. Commencement Exercises may be seen on Comcast Cable (channel 283) in Boston/Brookline and Cambridge/Greater Boston. Dress Code May weather in Boston can be variable (hot and humid, cool, or raining), so use your judgment when deciding what to wear. For Class Day, HBS recommends business casual attire. Other useful accessories to bring include sunscreen, sun hats, umbrellas/ponchos, blankets, sunglasses, and water bottles. Photography & Video Photographers & videographers will be on campus recording Class Day & Commencement activities. Your presence and comments may be captured and appear in photos and videos in School publications and websites. Photographs of each graduate receiving his or her diploma will be available for purchase after the event. ǁ Commencement Harvard Business School Boston, MA 02163 →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College