Skip to content Xavier University Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Open search dialog Open Navigation Menu Undergraduate Admission Admission Process Undergraduate Application Tuition and Aid Visit Campus Make Your Commitment Contact Us Close Undergraduate Admission sub menu Graduate Admission Apply to Xavier Graduate Financial Aid Events and Information Sessions Contact Us Close Graduate Admission sub menu Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Student Outcomes Academic Support Education Abroad Honors Programs Xavier University Colleges Close Academics sub menu Campus Life Residence Halls Campus Dining Options Clubs and Organizations Diversity Faith and Service Recreational Sports Cincinnati Health and Wellness First-Year Experience Close Campus Life sub menu Athletics goxavier.com Close Athletics sub menu About Xavier Xavier University Rankings Mission, Vision, and Values What is Jesuit Education? Close About Xavier sub menu Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Giving to Xavier Current Students Alumni Relations Employees Parents and Families Employment Opportunities Maps and Directions Search Xavier University: Search Academic Support Apply to Xavier Request Info Xavier Home Academics Academic Support Support You Can Count On Our graduates succeed because of a quality education and solid support outside the classroom. Explore the following campus resources that nurture and prepare students for success in college and beyond. Academic Support Offers tutoring, study skills assistance, supplemental instruction, reduced distraction testing and note taking assistance. Go to Academic Support Academic Advising Offers advice on majors and minors, your path to graduation and registering for the right classes. Go to Academic Advising Career Development Provides career coaching, online job boards, mentor programs, career fairs, resume reviews and more. Go to Career Development Center for Diversity and Inclusion Supports students as they explore their identities and prepares them to lead in an increasingly interconnected world. Go to Center for Diversity and Inclusion Disability Services Services include assistive listening devices, textbooks in alternative formats, note taking assistance and service animals. Go to Disability Services Financial Advising Offers walk-in hours for questions about FAFSAs, payment plans, loans, scholarships, grants and more. Go to Financial Advising International Student and Scholar Services Helps students maintain visa statuses and legal compliance. They also offer orientation, mentoring and leadership opportunities. Go to ISSS Success Coaching Serves as a touchpoint for first-year students’ questions, including roommate issues, major/program changes, and academic support. Go to Success Coaching Student Veteran Center Offers advising on VA Education benefits and GI Bill Certification, peer mentor programs and academic advising. Student Veteran Center Student Athlete Support Provides academic support as well as assistance with class registration, course selection and tutoring. Go to Student Athletic Advising Student Employment Offers on-campus and off-campus job opportunities, for work study and non-work study eligible students. Go to Hire a Muskie TRiO Provides technology and support to first-generation, low-income and disabled Xavier students. Go to TRiO Families We believe that by partnering with parents and family members, as appropriate, that our students will benefit from the genuine care indicative of Xavier's Jesuit heritage. For Families Take the Next Step Loading... Apply to Xavier Request Info Visit Campus Xavier University 3800 Victory Parkway Cincinnati, OH 45207 513-745-3000 Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Editor Access Xavier University on facebook Xavier University on twitter Xavier University on linkedin Xavier University on youtube Xavier University on instagram