Skip to Main Content apply now ☰ Students Parents Alumni People WyoWeb Virtual Tour Give Events A-Z Directory Admissions UW Admissions First Year Transfer International Graduate Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships Academics Explore Colleges Academic Affairs Catalog/Schedules Degree Plans Graduate Education Honors College Majors/Degrees UW at a Distance Art Museum UW Libraries Athletics NCAA Athletics Athletics Traditions Cowboy Joe Club Athletics Tickets Campus Recreation Club Sports Rodeo Intramural Sports NOLS Research Research & Econ Dev Wyoming INBRE Neuroscience Ctr Tech Business Ctr Nat Parks Service Research Prod Ctr Supercomputing Water Research WY EPSCoR/IDeA Amer Heritage Ctr UW Life Campus Safety Campus Maps Transit & Parking Res Life & Dining Diversity Student Orgs Cultural Prgms Fine Arts Campus Activities University Store UW Pride About UW Points of Pride Alumni Association Geological Museum Foundation Cowboy Parents UWyo Mag Brand Center Visit Campus Download Viewbook Give to UW Apply Request Info Tuition & Fees Visit Campus Programs & Majors 200+ Areas of Study at the University of Wyoming Find Your Path & Start Your Future! The University of Wyoming offers a wide range of both undergraduate and graduate degrees and majors through seven colleges and multiple interdisciplinary programs and departments. With a small student/faculty ratio of 14:1, UW is a community of scholars and learners committed to excellence. Whether you’re getting your bachelor’s degree in kinesiology and health or you’re an anthropology major exploring the world’s history, each degree, major and minor prepares you for a profession critical to the state and nation. Explore each department and see what your future holds: College of Agriculture and Natural Resources College of Arts and Sciences College of Business College of Education College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Health Sciences College of Law Haub School of Environment and Natural Resources Honors College School of Energy Resources Distance Education Graduate Education Exploratory Studies JL College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Serving Wyoming and the world through Determination, grit and innovation. The College of Agriculture & Natural Resources at the University of Wyoming offers degrees and classes that cover every aspect of agriculture and natural resources from economics and entrepreneurship to animal science and ecosystems. With endless internship and research opportunities, state-of-the-art facilities including the Wyoming State Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory and enthusiastic faculty, agriculture and natural resources students will receive a degree that prepares them for the ever-growing ag industry. Academic Departments and Programs Agricultural & Applied Economics Agricultural Communications Animal Science Ecosystem Science & Management Rangeland Ecology and Watershed Management Family & Consumer Sciences Microbiology Molecular Biology Plant Sciences Veterinary Sciences Back to top JL Get hands-on learning through ag classes with lab and field experience. College of Arts and Sciences Fostering creativity and critical thinking The College of Arts and Sciences offers degrees that match the cultural breadth and disciplinary depth to ensure students gain a critical understanding of the visual and performing arts, humanities, social sciences, the world and its languages and physical, biological and mathematical sciences. We encourage our students, whether you’re a psychology major or taking painting classes to earn your art degree, to conduct student-originated research, work one-on-one with a professor in independent studies and take advantage of study abroad opportunities. With an abundance of majors and minors to choose from, your possibilities are endless in the College of Arts and Sciences. Academic Departments and Programs Aging Studies Minor American Studies Anthropology Biology Botany Chemistry Communication & Journalism Criminal Justice Culture, Gender & Social Justice Ecology English Geology & Geophysics History Life Sciences Mathematics & Statistics Modern & Classical Languages Music Philosophy & Religious Studies Physics & Astronomy Politics, Public Affairs & International Studies Psychology Sociology Master of Public Administration Theatre & Dance Visual & Literary Arts Zoology & Physiology Wildlife and Fisheries Biology & Management Back to top JL Join one of the most versatile colleges at UW. College of Business Building a better society through better business The University of Wyoming’s College of Business strives to be the premier provider of ethical business leaders in the areas of accounting, administration, environment, ethics, finance, management, marketing and beyond. We are committed to equipping our students with a degree and knowledge in sustainable business practices to benefit the state of Wyoming and our nation. Internationally accredited through the AACSB, the College of Business is housed in a multi-million-dollar facility that combines state-of-the-art technology with world-class design and functionality. Every business major will walk away with a toolbelt ready for any business endeavor. Academic Departments and Programs Majors: Accounting Business Economics Economics Entrepreneurship Finance Management of Human Resources Professional Selling Marketing Minors: Accounting Banking & Financial Services Blockchain Data Analytics Economics Entrepreneurship (Non-Business Majors) Hospitality Business Leadership Technical & Professional Selling Real Estate Back to top JL Be among 5% of the world’s business programs that have earned AACSB accreditation. College of Education Preparing education professionals for THE NEXT GENERATION Dedicated to building stronger counselors, teachers, principals and other educators since 1914, the College of Education is nationally accredited by NCATE/CAEP. Our low student-faculty ratio and implementation of progressive strategies ensure our students are getting the support they need and are leading edge of their profession when they earn their degree. Expanded residency placements throughout the state of Wyoming and abroad allow undergraduate students to experience teaching in a location that suits their needs, near or far. Become a teacher in Wyoming! Explore our programs that lead to initial teaching licensure and allow teachers to add additional endorsements on their teaching license to increase their marketability. Academic Programs Bachelor's Degrees in Education: Elementary Education Elementary & Special Education Secondary Education Post-Baccalaureate Teaching Program: Teaching Elementary School Teaching Secondary Content Teaching Certificates: Early Childhood B-5 Certificate/Minor Early Childhood B-8 Certificate/Minor Early Childhood Special Education English as a Second Language Literacy Endorsement Online Instruction Certificate School District Superintendent School Principal Back to top JL Start working in public schools your second year. College of Engineering and Applied Science Be A part of today's rapidly innovative Environment Only the most innovative and creative solutions will overcome the energy and technology challenges facing today's world, and the students, faculty and staff of the College of Engineering and Applied Science (CEAS) are prepared to take on these challenges. Our students and faculty coordinate with leading national science and technology agencies to devise strategies to make our nation and world safer, cleaner and more technologically sound. Whatever degree you pursue, you will learn from and work alongside leading researchers and gain hands-on experience in our world-class facilities, research labs and more. Academic Departments and Programs Atmospheric Science Architectural Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering Civil Engineering/Water Resources Computer Engineering Computer Science Construction Management Electrical Engineering Energy Systems Engineering Environmental Engineering Land Surveying Certificate and Minor Mechanical Engineering Petroleum Engineering Back to top JL 300+ merit-based scholarships are offered each year to CEAS students. College of Health Sciences Wyoming’s gateway for health professionals The University of Wyoming’s College of Health Sciences offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees in most programs of study including Communication Disorders, Kinesiology and Health, Nursing, Pharmacy, Social Work, Medical Laboratory Sciences and Dental Hygiene. The college also offers a minor in disability studies that is a suitable complement to degrees in the health professions and other areas such as business, education, agriculture and psychology. We proudly participate in WWAMI, a regional medical education program in conjunction with the University of Washington School of Medicine. WWAMI is the primary source of medical education in Wyoming. The University of Wyoming's College of Health Sciences also supports two Family Medicine Residency programs in Casper and Cheyenne. Academic Departments and Programs Communication Disorders Dental Hygiene Disability Studies Minor Family Medicine Program – Casper Family Medicine Program – Cheyenne Kinesiology & Health Medical Laboratory Science Fay W. Whitney School of Nursing Physical Education Pharmacy Health Services Administration (MS) Social Work WWAMI Medical Education Program Wyoming Institute for Disabilities (WIND) Back to top JL Begin your journey towards a rewarding career in the health profession. College of Law Advancing justice through the knowledge of the law Consistently named as one of the best values for legal education, the University of Wyoming College of Law offers top programs in energy, natural resources, legal writing, family law, criminal law, international law and more. Students learn to analyze, assess, advocate, litigate and negotiate. They participate in clinics that represent clients, prepare legal documents and appear in court under the supervision of an experienced faculty member. With state-of-the-art courtroom facilities, we host the Wyoming Supreme Court and U.S. 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, and students have even handled jury trials and argued appellate cases before the Wyoming Supreme Court. A degree from the College of Law opens doors to international law programs, multi-cultural studies and access to study abroad opportunities. Academic Departments and Programs JD & MA in Environment and Natural Resource JD & Master of Business Administration JD of Master of Public Administration Back to top JL Consistently named as one of the nation's "Best Value" law schools. Haub School of Environment and Natural Resources Become a future Environmental leader From conservation to ecosystems and tourism to water, the University of Wyoming’s Haub School of Environment and Natural Resources advances the understanding and resolution of complex environmental and natural resource challenges. You’ll take courses from a wide range of departments to develop broad thinking and most importantly, you’ll get outside, meeting on-the-ground professionals who are tackling natural resource issues throughout Wyoming and around the world. We prepare students to be future leaders, collaborators and critical thinkers who will build robust, durable solutions to today’s most important issues. Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Environmental Systems Science Outdoor Recreation and Tourism Management Environment and Natural Resources Minor in Environment and Natural Resources Minor in Outdoor Leadership Minor in Sustainability Graduate Programs Environment and Natural Resources JD/MA in Law and Environment and Natural Resources Minor in Environment and Natural Resources Back to top JL Get your hands dirty, travel the world and go beyond the classroom walls. Honors College Go above and beyond The University of Wyoming Honors College provides a diverse body of motivated students with an interdisciplinary academic experience that positions them for future success as learners and leaders, locally and globally. An inclusive and supportive scholarly community, Honors challenges students to think ethically, creatively and collaboratively and to cultivate inquiry, reflection and ongoing growth. We ask students to challenge themselves intellectually, explore multiple academic fields, experience co-curricular activity and produce original research or creative work. Honors promotes the educational experimentation and discovery that attract and retain some of UW’s finest students and faculty Explore the honors college Honors College Advantages Requirements Capstone Project Co-Curricular Activities Honors Housing Study Abroad Opportunities Honors College Application Back to top JL "How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world." - Anne Frank School of Energy Resources Driving Energy initiatives The School of Energy Resources (SER) offers a unique interdisciplinary program designed to meet 21st-century challenges in energy development through innovation, entrepreneurship and critical analysis. Our degree program offers two concentrations that allow students the opportunity to learn modern energy technologies, business skills, policy and key practices essential to navigating the future energy economy. SER also supports and funds graduate research in departments across campus, collaboratively encouraging further progress in energy research and policy. In addition to learning from experts in the field, you’ll have access to one of the most high-quality, state-of-the-art research facilities at the University of Wyoming, the Energy Innovation Center (EIC). Our degree program prepares students to collaborate effectively across disciplines and problem solve, developing energy projects and policy across the nation for years to come. Academic Programs Energy Resource Management and Development Professional Land Management Concentration Energy and Environmental Systems Concentration Energy Resource Management Minor Back to top JL Meet the growing demand for professionals with a multidisciplinary background in the energy sector. Distance Education Complete an online degree at uw The University of Wyoming’s colleges and departments offer online classes, degree programs and additional learning opportunities to students across the nation through online and combination deliveries. You can enroll in an online program in Accounting, Elementary Education, Psychology and so much more. UW Distance Education also offers master's and doctoral degrees as well as certificates and endorsements. Even if you’re not walking across Prexy’s to get to class, but rather opening your laptop, you’ll still be provided with many on-campus resources and services. You can also take UW online classes as a non-degree-seeking student! Back to top JL Get a University of Wyoming education anywhere. Graduate Education Take your life, education and career to the next level The University of Wyoming offers more than 90 graduate degrees, providing a variety of subjects, the rigor of high-quality education and the depth of research you’re looking for in a master's or Ph.D. program. UW offers a sense of belonging in a close-knit community with faculty dedicated to mentoring graduate students from the start of your program to beyond graduation. Whether you’re studying anthropology, engineering, science, getting your MBA or anything in between, you’ll also receive support services and outside-of-the-classroom opportunities you’d associate with a large university. Many of UW’s graduate programs are nationally ranked for their excellence in teaching and research, allowing our students to earn advanced degrees along with the tools and expertise they need to succeed. Back to top JL Reach higher by challenging yourself to earn an advanced degree at UW. Contact Us UW Office of Admissions Knight Hall 150 Department 3435, 1000 E. University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 Phone: (307) 766-5160 Toll-Free: (800) 342-5996 E-mail: admissions@uwyo.edu 1000 E. University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 UW Operators (307) 766-1121 | Contact Us | Download Adobe Reader Accreditation | Virtual Tour | Emergency Preparedness | Employment at UW | Privacy Policy | Harassment & Discrimination | Accessibility