Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC > COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Information for Patients Our practices are open and we are here to care for you. Keeping you and our clinical teams safe is a top priority. Whether you receive your care virtually or in-person, you can count on receiving the same great quality of care that you’ve come to expect from Columbia. Please visit ColumbiaDoctors for more information. Questions? Patients with questions about COVID-19 can visit this website for more information, or call an informational hotline 646-697-4000 that is available as a public service to provide information only and not to diagnose, treat, or render a medical opinion. COVID-19 Vaccines We are providing COVID-19 vaccines and booster doses to eligible patients in partnership with our hospital partner, NewYork-Presbyterian. Patients can make an appointment through our Connect portal. Information about eligibility and appointment availability can be checked on our VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646-697-8222. Seeking Medical Care for COVID-19 If you think you might have COVID-19, we want you to get the best care possible and keep those around you safe and healthy. That means finding out if you need testing before visiting a practice office. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or have been in close contact with someone that has been diagnosed with COVID-19, call your primary care doctor. They will determine if you need testing. If you don’t have a primary care doctor, you should visit the emergency room. COVID-19 Prevention The best way to prevent illness is to avoid exposure and get vaccinated as soon as possible. We are providing COVID-19 vaccines and booster doses to eligible patients in partnership with our hospital partner, NewYork-Presbyterian. Patients can make an appointment through our Connect portal. Information about eligibility and appointment availability can be checked on our VaccineTogetherNY.org site. Information is also available at 646-697-8222. CDC and other public health experts also recommend everyday preventive actions to help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases, including: Above all, get vaccinated as soon as you can. Once you are fully vaccinated, you may be able to start doing some things that you had stopped doing because of the pandemic. Wear a mask in public. Stay home when you are sick. Avoid close contact with others. Maintain six feet of distance between yourself and others when in public. Avoid crowds and poorly ventilated spaces. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. COVID-19 Symptoms Symptoms of COVID-19 include cough, fever, shortness of breath, sore throat, chills, and/or loss of taste or smell. These symptoms may be similar to the flu or the common cold. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia and other complications, especially in older individuals and those with underlying health conditions. Close contacts of persons with COVID-19 also are at elevated risk of exposure. Visitor Policy For everyone’s safety, our Visitor Policy has been updated. Please visit NewYork-Presbyterian’s website for information about their Visitor Policy. Resources for Discharged COVID-19 Patients and Caregivers If a health care provider has determined that you or somebody in your care can be isolated and monitored at home after testing positive, please follow these abridged Discharge Instructions for Patients with Confirmed or Suspected COVID-19 until the provider says that you or the person you are caring for can return to normal activities. Consider printing these instructions and placing them somewhere visible for your quick reference. If you have questions, please see our more detailed Discharge Instructions – Patients with Confirmed or Suspected COVID-19 and Caregiver Instructions for Respiratory Illness. Seeking Non-Covid Medical Care CUIMC and our outpatient practices are open to provide care for all patients. We are taking every precaution to ensure our patients’ safety and wellbeing as they return for medical care which may have been delayed, cancelled, or rescheduled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit ColumbiaDoctors for more information. Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top