Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index College of Media & Communication Menu Search Advertising The Advertising program curriculum emphasizes both the creative and business-related aspects of advertising, ultimately preparing students for careers in account services, brand management, account planning and research, copywriting, design and layout, media planning, and advertising sales. Advising Coursework News Faculty Check Us Out We want to achieve communication magic–that perfect intersection between information and entertainment, between right-brain and left-brain, between form and function. It is at this intersection that you find advertising. So, if that sounds like a good time–come join us! Frequently Asked Questions Is advertising the right degree for me? Advertising is creative- plain and simple. We crunch numbers on occasion and we always think with strategy in mind, but creativity and originality are the stars of the show. So, if you are analytically minded but have a creative flair, advertising could be right for you. If you are a die-hard creative writer or designer, advertising could be right for you. If you enjoy telling interesting stories and influencing people, advertising could be right for you. We are passionate about what we do and we have a lot of fun - come join us! What kind of jobs can I get with an advertising degree? Advertising is one of the few industries where nearly anyone can find a fulfilling career suited to their individual personality and abilities. Most traditional jobs in the advertising industry focus on account services, creative, or media. Account managers (sometimes known as account executive, project manager, brand manager, among others) serve as the liaison between the client and the agency. Account planners research consumers' attitudes, lifestyles, and behaviors to make sure their perspective is considered when developing advertising messages. Creatives (e.g., art directors, copywriters, graphic designers) use these insights to help generate creative ideas to craft the most effective messages for the client. The production team (e.g., web designers, photographers, videographers, video editors) then takes these creative ideas and turns them into reality. Media planners conduct research to generate insights about consumers' media habits, and the media buyers then use these insights to negotiate with media providers (e.g., cable television, social media, etc.) the best times and locations to place the advertising messages. How can I get involved? Students have the opportunity to join student organizations that provide them with “real-world” experience, networking opportunities, etc. Advertising students are encouraged to join Tech Advertising Federation (TAF), a chapter of the American Advertising Federation (AAF); apply for the advertising team for an opportunity to compete in the AAF National Student Advertising Competition; as well as take advantage of opportunities through our brand new state-of-the-art ideation lab, Think Tank. Students can also join other student organizations in the College of Media & Communication, including Outpost, The Hub, KTXT, Double T Insider, etc. Where art & strategy collide. Talk to Someone! We'd love to talk to you about our advertising program! Use the form below to contact us, or email our advertising department chair and program advisor. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Your Name: *Your Email: *Your Message: Captcha Verification Submit Reset Shannon Bichard Department Chair Makenzee Spruiell Academic Advisor Contact ContactContact Contact Contact Guns Up!Guns Up! Apply HeartHeart Give Double TDouble T Visit College of Media & Communication Like College of Media & Communication on FacebookLike College of Media & Communication on Facebook Follow College of Media & Communication on twitterFollow College of Media & Communication on twitter Subscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTubeSubscribe to College of Media & Communication on YouTube Follow College of Media & Communication on InstagramFollow College of Media & Communication on Instagram Connect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedInConnect with College of Media & Communication on LinkedIn Address Texas Tech University, Box 43082, Lubbock, TX 79409 Phone 806.742.6500 Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityFeb 1, 2022 11:04 AM College of Media & Communication New Students College of Media & Communication New Students Back I've been accepted to TTU! College of Media & Communication New Students Back Help me get started Register for orientation Take a virtual tour Prospective Students College of Media & Communication New Students Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply to TTU Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities How to apply College of Media & Communication New Students Back Apply to Undergraduate Apply to Graduate Programs & Majors College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Back Undergraduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Undergraduate Programs Back Undergraduate Programs Home Apply Now! Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Certificates Minors Graduate Programs College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Graduate Programs Back Graduate Programs Home Apply Now! Ph.D. Program M.A. Programs Graduate Certificates Graduate Faculty Graduate Student Resources Financial Aid College of Media & Communication Programs & Majors Financial Aid Back Scholarships M.A. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Ph.D. Scholarship & Financial Aid Info Students & Faculty College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Back Prospective Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Prospective Students Back Prospective Students Home Apply Now! Transferring? Learn More Testimonials Parents Learning Communities Current Students College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Current Students Back Current Students Home Study Abroad Careers & Internships Technology Recommendations Student Organizations Basics of Writing Exam Student Work Gallery Advising College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Advising Back Advising Home Red Raider Orientation Advertising Communication Studies Creative Media Industries Digital Media & Professional Communication Journalism Media Strategies Public Relations & Strategic Communication Management Virtual Schedule Builder Faculty & Staff College of Media & Communication Students & Faculty Faculty & Staff Back College Directory Intranet New Technology Request Email Technology Support About College of Media & Communication About Back Our College College of Media & Communication About Our College Back Employment About Our College Departments & Centers Our Building History & Future Our Facilities College Events Strategic Goals Virtual Tour Our People College of Media & Communication About Our People Back Diversity College Directory Faculty & Staff Resources National Advisory Board Dean's Student Ambassadors Publications College of Media & Communication About Publications Back College Publications College News The MC Magazine Contact Us College of Media & Communication About Contact Us Back Contact Us 806.742.6500 comc@ttu.edu Alumni & Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Back Alumni College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Alumni Back Alumni Home Alumni Updates Pioneers of TAB Hall of Fame Outstanding Alumni Wall Tiles Lectureships College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Lectureships Back Morris Lectureship Buesseler Lectureship Giving College of Media & Communication Alumni & Giving Giving Back Give to the College Ways to Give Scholarships Research College of Media & Communication Research Back Research College of Media & Communication Research Research Back Research Home Research Areas Research Faculty Center for Communication Research College of Media & Communication Research Center for Communication Research Back Center for Communication Research Home Participation Staff Facilities Services Offered Outpost Social Media Lab College of Media & Communication Research Outpost Social Media Lab Back Outpost Social Media Lab Home About Insights Projects Resources HIHIC College of Media & Communication Research HIHIC Back HIHIC Home About Advisory Board Affiliates TTU International Film Series Useful Links Employment Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index