Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Clemson Rural Health Clemson Rural Health Patient Services Research & Innovation Our Team Forward Arrow Our Team Leadership Healthcare Providers Clinical Staff Faculty COVID-19 Testing & Vaccination Team Administrative & Billing Staff Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Clemson Rural Health Clemson Rural Health is the organizing framework for Clemson's health service delivery and prevention efforts statewide - with locations including the Joseph F. Sullivan Center, Clemson Health Clinic at Walhalla, and a fleet of Clemson Rural Health mobile health units. Clemson Rural Health seeks to reduce premature mortality, decrease preventable hospitalizations, and promote healthy behaviors through innovation, research, education, collaboration, compassion, integration, and tradition in the state of South Carolina as part of Clemson University's land-grant mission. Clemson Rural Health Patient Services Research & Innovation Our Team show submenu for Our Team Leadership Healthcare Providers Clinical Staff Faculty COVID-19 Testing & Vaccination Team Administrative & Billing Staff Clemson Home College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Current: Clemson Rural Health Start your patient experience here The mission of Clemson Rural Health is to improve individual and community health outcomes among underserved and rural communities throughout South Carolina by increasing access to quality health care and improving health equity through innovative, evidence-based approaches and strategic partnerships. Clemson Rural Health seeks to reduce premature mortality, decrease preventable hospitalizations, and promote healthy behaviors through innovation, research, education, collaboration, compassion, integration and tradition in the state of South Carolina as part of Clemson University’s land-grant mission. We offer same-day appointments at most locations for everything from acute illness or injury to long-term chronic condition management. We pride ourselves in considering whole person wellness, integrating support services into our traditional medical visits to support a happy, healthy life. Complementary approaches include dietetics and nutrition, social work, and health coaching and education. Clemson Rural Health also provides immunizations and travel medicine. See our patient services page to begin your experience. Frequently Asked Questions What is Clemson Rural Health? Clemson Rural Health is the organizing framework for Clemson’s health service delivery and prevention efforts statewide. Housed in the College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences (CBSHS), Clemson Rural Health includes the Joseph F. Sullivan Center (JFSC), Clemson Health Clinic at Walhalla, our mobile health van fleet, and our at-risk community COVID-19 screening teams. How do I make an appointment? Our team is happy to assist you at 864-656-3076. How much does it cost? Clemson Rural Health offers competitive rates and bills most major insurances. What if I can’t make my appointment and need to reschedule? Our team is happy to assist you at 864-656-3076. Appointments may also be rescheduled via MyChart. How do I pay a bill? Payment may be processed at our Clemson or Walhalla locations. You may also use MyChart payment portal. MyChart Login How do I access MyChart?? Please follow the link below to access MyChart. Additional information will be requested within the portal. MyChart Login Where do the mobile clinics go? Our fleet has a regular rotating schedule throughout the Upstate of South Carolina. Our right-sized approach allows us to work throughout the state as needs arise. Contact us if you would like our team to come to your area. Email Clemson Rural Health What if I can’t make my appointment and need to reschedule? Our team is happy to assist you at 864-656-3076. If I call with a question for the nurse, when can I expect a call back? Our providers are with patients throughout the day, so it is usually not possible for them to immediately answer phone calls. We will return your call as soon as possible. To help us get back to you quickly, please leave your full name, date of birth, reason for the call and current phone number. Do you have after hours care? If you call the clinic after hours and leave a message, our team will return your call as soon as possible on the next business day. EMERGENCY/CRISIS/AFTER HOURS CARE If you or someone you know is experiencing an emergency or is at risk of harm to self or others, contact emergency services and get help by calling 911. How can I be involved? Clemson students who are interested in clinical hours, including internships and volunteering, should complete an application. Our team will reach out to you regarding any available opportunities. We also accept donations through the Clemson University Foundation. How can I donate to Clemson Rural Health? We accept donations through the Clemson University Foundation. Clemson University Foundation P.O. Box 1889 Clemson, SC 29633-1889 Please make checks payable to Clemson University Foundation. Make sure to include “Clemson Rural Health” in the memo line to designate your gift! MyChart Patient Portal Clemson Rural Health uses MyChart for patient access to records, scheduling, and online payment processing. Access MyChart Contact Us EMERGENCY/CRISIS/AFTER HOURS CARE If you or someone you know is experiencing an emergency or is at risk of harm to self or others, contact emergency services and get help by calling 911. Joseph F. Sullivan Center 101 Edwards Hall Clemson, SC 29634 Email: clemsonruralhealth@clemson.edu Phone: 864-656-3076 Phone: 877-430-9992 (toll-free) Fax: 864-656-1123 Clemson Health Clinic at Walhalla 200 Booker Drive Walhalla, SC 29691 Email: clemsonruralhealth@clemson.edu Phone: 864-656-3076 Phone: 877-430-9992 (toll-free) Fax: 864-656-1123 Clemson Rural Health Facebook Clemson Rural Health Instagram Concerns? Please complete this form so that we may continue to improve our services. Clemson Rural Health Locations Clemson Health Clinic at Walhalla The Clemson Health Clinic-Walhalla offers primary healthcare services to members of the Walhalla community, Oconee County and beyond. Created to fill a healthcare gap in a rural community, the clinic offers innovative services in primary care and health education in both English and Spanish. Address: 200 Booker Drive Walhalla, SC 29691 864-656-3076 877-430-9992 (toll-free) clemsonruralhealth@clemson.edu Joseph F. Sullivan Center The Joseph F. Sullivan Center is an employee health and wellness clinic located in the heart of Clemson University’s campus at Edwards Hall. This convenient location means you don’t even have to leave your parking spot to receive quality care from campus! Address: 101 Edwards Hall Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3076 877-430-9992 (toll-free) clemsonruralhealth@clemson.edu Clemson Rural Health Mobile Health Units Building on a 30+ year history of mobile medical services, Clemson Rural Health brings care to your neighborhood with a fleet of five custom built solar powered mobile medical clinics. Ranging in size from one to three exam rooms, these adaptive units are capable of offering a range of services depending on location and need. Take a look inside. Food Security At Clemson Rural Health, we believe health encompasses more than clinical encounters. As a part of the College of Behavioral, Social, and Health Sciences at Clemson University, we work to help support food security across the state level including efforts such as building community gardens,academic initiatives including conferences and research, food distribution, and resource mapping. COVID-19 Pandemic Support In partnership with Healthy Me, Healthy SC, Clemson Cooperative Extension, the Medical University of South Carolina, SCDHEC, and other statewide partners, Clemson Rural Health has operated a rural COVID-19 testing and vaccination mobile team since summer of 2020. In addition, Clemson Rural Health has assisted with research efforts relating to vaccine efficacy, hesitancy, and health beliefs. As of January 2022, the team has administered 9139 tests and 2463 vaccines. Clemson Rural Health News more clemson rural health news Clemson Rural Health Copyright © Clemson University Clemson Rural Health | 101 Edwards Hall, Clemson, SC, 29634 864-656-3076 or 877-430-9992 (toll-free) | Email Us | Payment Portal intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson