retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu Google Translate/En Español Search Search The Office Meet the VP Office Team Senior Team Departments Our Initiatives For Students Office of the Dean of Students HornsLink My UT Division Events Calendar For Parents & Families Parents & Family Resources Family Orientation Family Weekend Texas Parents Association For Faculty & Staff Faculty Resources Student Conduct & Academic Integrity Staff Newsletter Division Staff Resources Give Now Division of Student Affairs Home Page-1 Discover where you can now buy our Living the Longhorn Life gear, helping us meet urgent student needs. Read More Led by Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Soncia Reagins-Lilly, the Division of Student Affairs works with academic partners, staff, parents and student leaders to influence our students in Living the Longhorn Life®. Supported by the Vice President for Student Affairs, the Division’s nine departments, 37 units and 40 facilities offer first-class programs, facilities and services. They include on-campus residence halls, apartments and their dining facilities, medical and mental health services, new student orientation, recreational sports and two university unions. The Division employs 1,500 students annually and supports 1,000 student organizations, student emergency and veteran services, and leadership programs. Soncia Reagins-Lilly Living the Longhorn Life Audio Story Thousands showed their Longhorn pride during the in-person comeback of two campus traditions — Longhorn Run and Family Weekend. Listen to our story here or on Spotify, Google or Apple Podcasts. Listen Now Top Stories Change Starts Here Learn how Change Starts Here: UT’s 10-Year Strategic Plan to Increase Impact sets a bold direction for us. Read More President Honors Former Vice President for Student Affairs Discover why our former VP for student affairs’ 40-year career in higher education is being recognized with an Arno Nowotny Medal. Read More Recognized for Excellence Find out who on the team received high honors from the president — and congratulate those with 10+ years of service. See More Outstanding Student Award Meet the Longhorns joining an impressive list of well-known alumni honored with a Texas Parent Outstanding Student Award. Read More Campus COVID-19 Information Get the Details @UTexasStudents ⇄ UT Student Affairs Retweeted Texas Longhorns TexasLonghorns We remember and honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. #MemorialDay https://t.co/vooJE81P32 21 hours 34 min ago ⇄ UT Student Affairs Retweeted UT Housing UTHousing Hey, incoming residents (especially you, #UT26): Mooov-In will be here before we know it. Check the link in the bio… https://t.co/68bJlSSorw 3 days 19 hours ago ⇄ UT Student Affairs Retweeted Healthyhorns Healthyhorns The CMHC is here for you. Access counseling services 24/7 through MySSP or if you're in crisis - call the 24/7 cris… https://t.co/nqWXeuI5Jk 5 days 15 hours ago ⇄ UT Student Affairs Retweeted UT Dean of Students UTDoS There’s no wrong door for seeking help or support. You can talk to your friends, loved ones, and/or resources on ca… https://t.co/cmsP7jq2TD 5 days 15 hours ago 2020-2021 Impact Report From a global pandemic to historic winter weather, our 2020-2021 Impact Report tells the story of how we weathered the storms of the last year together. View the Report The University of Texas at Austin Vice President for Student Affairs 2304 Whitis Avenue, Stop G5000 Austin, TX 78712-1659 vpsa@austin.utexas.edu Phone: 512-471-1133 Fax: 512-471-5558 FacebookFind us on Facebook flickrSee us on flickr InstagramSee us on Instagram tumblrFind us on tumblr TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Directory Maps UT Direct UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022