By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Academics In this Section Commencement Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Syracuse Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Experience Academic Excellence Syracuse University is a top-tier R1 research institution where you’ll have the chance to rise to your potential, learning from and collaborating with leading scientists and scholars who are tackling today’s biggest challenges. Begin Your Orange Journey Explore academic options aligned with the careers of tomorrow. Find Your Program Undergraduate Majors and Minors Link Customize your Orange journey and discover endless learning opportunities with our 13 schools and colleges offering more than 200 majors and 100+ minors. Graduate Degree Programs Link Prepare for tomorrow’s careers today. Pursue hands-on research, creative inquiry or professional studies alongside our world-class faculty and scholars. Online Programs Link Rise from your first class to your next job—and well beyond—through flexible academic options, a vibrant community and a powerful alumni network. All Programs Link Become a member of a global community to develop a holistic perspective that lasts a lifetime. Explore your program options. Schools and Colleges Link Through a dynamic blend of the liberal arts and professional studies programs within Syracuse University's 13 schools and colleges, we prepare our students to be career ready, offering personalized pathways that deepen knowledge and support discovery on campus and around the world. Academic Calendar Includes: Academic Year, Quarter-Term, Five Year, Five Year Quarter-Term Stay updated on key Syracuse University calendar items. Here you’ll find all registration dates, course schedules, financial deadlines and degree award dates to keep you on time and on point. IVMF The Institute for Veterans and Military Families is higher education’s first interdisciplinary academic institute, singularly focused on advancing the lives of the nation’s military veterans and their families. Opportunities and Support At Syracuse, you’ll do more than pursue your passion. You’ll be given the tools and opportunities that will enable you to flourish in your chosen area of study. Research Includes: Centers and Institutes Research at Syracuse University seeks to address pressing global needs and strives to involve students at every opportunity. The University is home to over 30 research centers that span disciplines, including the Syracuse Biomaterials Institute, Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs, the Tully Center for Free Speech and George E. Bennett Center for Accounting and Tax Research. Resources Degree Works Course Catalog Transcript Request Also in this Section Link Study Abroad Link Choose from over 100 different programs within 60 countries, and engage in internships, Signature Seminars, language study, homestay and community engagement projects. Honors Program Link Accomplished students who are seeking to maximize their education and distinguish themselves academically and professionally can apply to join the Renée Crown University Honors Program. Libraries, Collections, and Galleries Link Our vast libraries, research collections, museums and galleries provide you with endless opportunities for discovery and personal growth. Office of Pre-College Programs Link Syracuse University’s Office of Pre-College Programs provides high school students with the opportunity to explore potential college majors in a variety of credit and noncredit courses. Academic Administration Link The administration provides leadership and counsel on academic programs, policies, faculty recruitment and support, research and support for academic affairs. List of Academic Departments Link The interdisciplinary nature of Syracuse will inspire you to expand upon your interests in ways you've never considered. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy