Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu Registrar About Register Students Veterans Faculty & Staff Forms Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact Students Enrollment Verification Grades OverviewGPA and Grading ScaleGrade ChangeFAQ Transcripts OverviewOfficialUnofficialLambuth UniversityFAQ Reverse Transfer FERPA and Student Educational Records Annual FERPA Notification Release of Student Education Record Student Right-to-Know Information Changing Personal Data Withdrawing from UofM OverviewLate/Retroactive Withdrawal Self Service Guides Take Action View Calendars Order Transcripts View Notices Contact Us Home Registrar Students Release of Student Education Record Release of Student Education Records The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) prevents the University from releasing "personally identifiable student education records" to unauthorized individuals or organizations without the student's written consent. (To see what is considered a student education record at UofM, refer to Inventory of Academic and Student Education Records.) However, University employees (ex., advisors) who have a legitimate need to see these records, and parents who can prove that a student is still a dependent for tax purposes, can view these records if they follow the proper procedures. The portion of the education record known as "Directory Information" is available to the public unless access to it is restricted by the student. What is Directory Information? Directory Information is personal student data that can be published in a Campus Telephone Directory or used to identify a student to outside agencies. Directory Information is treated in a professional manner by the University and its employees. The following pieces of student information are considered Directory Information: Student Name Student U-Number (University ID number) Address Telephone Listing Email address Major field of study Expected Date of Graduation Cumulative Earned Hours Date of Birth Participation in officially recognized Activities and Sports Weight and Height - ** Members of Athletic Teams Only ** Dates of Attendance Degrees, including Date of Graduation Awards Received (e.g., Dean's List, Graduation Honors) Most recent Previous Education Agency or Institution attended Current Enrollment Status: (1) Number of Hours currently enrolled in, (2) Status (Part-time or Full-time), and (3) Classification (Freshman, Sophomore, etc.) University Student-Employment Status If you are a student, you have the right to prevent your Directory Information from being published in the Campus Directory or released to outside agencies. If you elect to suppress your Directory Information, ALL of it will be suppressed. We cannot release some information and suppress the rest. Suppressing Directory Information You may suppress your Directory Information in one of two ways: Login to iAM and restrict your information electronically. After logging in, select "Update Personal Information," and then "Restrict Release of Student Directory Information (FERPA)." Read the information carefully. If you still want to restrict your information, check "Restrict my directory information" and then click the [Update] button. or Complete a Request to Restrict the Release of Directory Information form and turn it in to The Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower, along with a copy of your photo ID. You may upload both documents through the Registrar's secure upload system. The form is in pdf format; if you cannot print it, you may obtain a copy from the Registrar's Office. Restricting access to your Directory Information may have some undesired consequences; these are explained on the "Request to Restrict..." form. If you have any questions about these consequences, ask about them at the Registrar's Office. Who May Request or Release Student Records? University of Memphis Faculty and Staff You may request copies of student records, provided you have a legitimate need for these records that pertains to your duties at the University. Never release these records directly to the student. Also, do not release a student's records to a third party unless both the student's written authorization and an approved procedure--developed with the assistance of the Registrar's Office for the student's particular requirements (e.g., packaging of application materials for Nursing Certification)--are on file in the Registrar's Office. Read Faculty and Staff Access to Student Records. University of Memphis Students You may authorize the release of your record to someone (ex., a parent or guardian) other than a University of Memphis employee. Read Student Consent to Release Education Record. Parents of University of Memphis Students If you have claimed the student as a dependent for tax purposes in the most recent tax year, you may request a copy of your student's record. Read Parent Access to Student Record. Researchers/Others If you do not fall into one of the above categories and wish to request an exception to the requirements, (ex., you need the information to conduct legitimate research), you must request and receive approval through the Institutional Review Board. Releasing the Restriction on Directory Information If you have previously elected to restrict your directory information and would like to remove that restriction, complete a Request to Release/Remove Restriction of Directory Information form and turn it in to The Registrar's Office, 003 Wilder Tower, along with a copy of your photo ID. You may upload both documents through the Registrar's secure upload system. The form is in pdf format; if you cannot print it, you may obtain a copy from the Registrar's Office. Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 8/16/21 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.