Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Housing Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Incoming Students Current Students Guide to Living Explore Residences Dates Other Services About First-Year Housing First-Year Application First-Year Check-In 3-2 Combined Plan Housing New Transfer and Exchange Housing Visiting Student Housing Summer Housing Options for Students Spring Check-Out Room Selection How It Works Eligibility Special Populations Registration Point Values, Lottery Numbers & Selection Appointments Selection Selecting as a Group Online Selection Step-by-Step If You Need Help Hartley Hospitality Desk Resident Advisers On Duty Columbia Public Safety Forms Residence Halls Directory with Map First-Year Area Carman Hall Furnald Hall Hartley Hall John Jay Hall Wallach Hall Upperclass Area 47 Claremont Avenue 600 West 113 Street Broadway Hall Carlton Arms East Campus Harmony Hall Hogan Hall McBain Hall Residential Brownstones River Hall Ruggles Hall Schapiro Hall SIC Residences Watt Hall Wien Hall Woodbridge Hall Fraternities and Sororities FSL Brownstones Residence Hall Amenities Bike Storage Locations Computer Labs & Print Stations Fitness Center Locations Residence Hall Lounges Rate Structure Fire Safety Resident Advisers On Duty Hartley Hospitality Desk Conference Housing Conference Housing Request Form Commencement Housing Our Team About Columbia Housing Staff Directory Resources News & Announcements Video Library Sustainability Our Sustainability Initiatives Green Sale Sustainable Columbia Website Other Campus Housing Columbia Housing You are here: Home Services Public Safety Public Safety Related Policies Emergency Procedures Guests When to Call Public Safety Public Safety should be notified by calling 212-854-5555 in the following circumstances: If suspicious persons, activities, or incidents are witnessed anywhere on campus. If residents are assaulted. If a resident’s room has been broken into in any way. If any of a resident’s property is stolen or vandalized. If a resident’s room key has been stolen. If there is a personal safety concern for yourself or for that of another. If a fire occurs. If residents witness any of the above, or for any other safety concerns or emergencies. Public Safety will contact Columbia University Emergency Medical Service (CU-EMS) if necessary and will inform the resident’s RA and Residential Life staff of the situation at an appropriate time. Expand all Collapse all Safety Guidelines Inside the Residence Halls Keep personal room and suite doors locked at all times. Do not sign anyone into residence halls who you do not know or who will not be in your company at all times. Remember that residents are responsible for anyone they sign in. Never open doors to strangers. If the person persists or tries to gain entry, contact Public Safety. Avoid keeping large amounts of cash or valuables in residence hall rooms. Stairs should not be used when a resident feels threatened or as a means to escape pursuers or potential attackers. Go to an area where other people are present instead. Never give out private information to strangers over the telephone. If a resident is the victim of telephone harassment, report it to Public Safety or a Residence Hall Director (RHD). Outside the Residence Halls If you feel that you are being followed, cross the street and remain alert. Avoid walking near dark doorways, abandoned buildings, or other locations where someone could be hiding. Avoid shortcuts and stay in well-lit areas. If a vehicle stops and the occupant asks for directions, remain on the sidewalk and do not approach the car. When arriving home by private vehicle or taxi, ask the driver to wait until you are safely on campus grounds, and preferably inside residence halls. Rather than walking alone at night, use the on-demand Evening Shuttle. Have keys in hand so that doors can be opened quickly. For more safety and crime prevention tips, see the Crime Prevention and Safety page on the Columbia Public Safety website. Download the Lion Safe App for Safety on The Go All the resources of Columbia University Public Safety are now available at your fingertips through Lion Safe, a user-friendly app available for your smartphone or tablet. The Lion Safe app allows the user to request emergency services at the touch of a button along with other useful quick links including maps, shuttle schedules, crime alerts, emergency protocols, campus safety notifications, and non-emergency numbers for each campus. The app also introduces a new safety feature called Friend Walk, a way to alert someone else of your location in real-time so they can follow your path to your destination and trigger a call to emergency services if necessary. Similar to sending an SMS message, your friend will receive a link to connect, which takes them to your location on a map. Once you arrive at your destination safely, be sure to finish your trip and disconnect. Elevator Safety Before entering an elevator, check to see who is inside. If you do not feel comfortable, wait for the next elevator. Never tamper with or abuse any of the equipment or controls. Never pry open doors or hold them open by the safety edges. Never exceed the capacity posted in the elevator car. Should an elevator stop between floors, use the emergency phone located in the elevator car; it will provide direct access to Public Safety. They will give residents proper instructions on how to proceed. Never attempt to exit an elevator that is stuck between floors without directions and assistance from emergency personnel. Report elevator malfunctions to 212-854-2797. Specify the elevator location, the nature of the problem, and the number of passengers in the elevator. Never use elevators in a fire. Columbia Housing Portal Submit a Service Request Housing Web Forms Contact Us: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday 9:00 - 5:00) 212-854-2779 (After hours and weekends) [email protected] Questions? Need Help? Contact the Hartley Hospitality Desk at 212-854-2779. Theme Health & Safety Topics Emergencies Safety Phone Housing Main Office: 212-854-2946 (Monday - Friday, 9:00AM - 5:00PM) Hospitality Desk: 212-854-2779 (Available 24x7) Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close