Skip to main content Skip to site menu Skip to Brown menu Skip to site search Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Enter search keyword About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory Meiklejohn Peer Advising First Years Meiklejohn Peer Advising First Years You and Your Meiklejohn Your Meiklejohn understands that you are new to Brown, and that you might or you might not know which courses you want to take this semester, this year, or even over your four years at Brown. Whatever your thoughts on your academic trajectory, your Meiklejohn is ready to help. Your first year at Brown is a time for discovery. Your Meiklejohn will help you consider academic areas and social activities you never thought of and help you build on your strengths. But there is one thing your Meiklejohn will never do: tell you what to do. (You wouldn't do that to the important people in your life, would you?) Rather, they will advise you. As a supportive critic for your first year, your Meiklejohn will listen and discuss, backing some decisions, challenging others, cautioning against possible pitfalls, suggesting other possibilities, and referring widely. Your Meiklejohn will always respect your responsibility and accountability. It’s not all about classes Every piece of Brown is interrelated; it is impossible to separate academic advising from helping you transition to life at Brown. In addition to giving you advice on course selection, your Meik's advising might extend to topics such as: Encouraging the formation of relationships with professors and deans Helping with effective office hours techniques Taking advantage of (virtual) events on campus Strategizing your own academic path Exploring extracurricular opportunities Utilizing Brown's academic and non-academic resources Acting as a resource for all troubles Your Meiklejohn may not be able to help you with every problem you encounter at Brown, but they WILL know who can help you. Meiklejohns are experts on finding resources on campus and are eager to help in any way they can! A Year-long Relationship Don't forget that your first year is exactly that--a year. Not a first semester, or month, or week. A year. Your Meiklejohn knows this, and will be with you for your entire first year at Brown. Your questions might change as you acclimate to Brown's campus and curricular culture, and your Meiklejohn will be right there alongside you. Don't forget about them; they won't forget about you. The Meiklejohn Program About the Meiklejohn Program History Meiklejohn Leadership For First Years Become a Meiklejohn! For Meiks Print this Page Share this Page Meiklejohn Peer Advising Brown University Page-Robinson Hall 313 Box 1828 Providence, RI 02912 [email protected] Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory for Advisors Dean of the College Advising Sidekick (ASK) Advising Central Academic Advisor Handbook for Advisees Curricular Resource Center Office of Student Life CareerLAB Writing Center Office of International Programs