Skip to main content UCF Online Menu Online Programs Online BachelorsOnline Graduate DegreesOnline MastersOnline Graduate CertificatesOnline DoctoratesOnline Minors Areas of Interest Criminal JusticeEducationEngineeringHealthcareHospitalityLeadership and ManagementNursingPublic Service and Community Support Admissions Transfer AdmissionsGraduate AdmissionsInternational AdmissionsMilitary Admissions Tuition Tuition and CostsFinancial AidScholarshipsFee Waiver Student Support Online Student ResourcesTuition Support ScholarshipsUCF Online Connect CenterLearning OnlineDownloads Get to YOUR Future with UCF Online. Find Your Degree Program Select Program Type Degree Level Select an Area of Interest Interest Select Program Program View Program or, browse all degree programs Ranked as a Top 10 online program by U.S. News & World Report, UCF believes everyone deserves the opportunity to pursue their dreams. Search for an online Degree A Leader in Fully Online Degree Programs With 25 years of experience providing top online degrees, UCF is a trusted source for innovative education technology. And with more than 100 online programs, we offer some of the best online degrees for students no matter where they live. Recognized as a leader in innovation, UCF puts you on the path to success — whether your goal is to move up the ranks at your current job or go after the one you have always wanted. We tailor digital learning to fit your needs, from flexible programs and affordable course materials to support from your advisor every step of the way. Ready to see what your future has in store? Explore Bachelor’s Programs Explore Graduate Programs Explore Degrees in Top Industries Criminal Justice Engineering Healthcare Hospitality Leadership and Management Education We definitely look to UCF to be a partner… We know that their training and curriculum matches up with a lot of the skills we’re looking for.” Thaya LupoLockheed Martin Human Resources The Power of Online Education What can an online degree do for your future? Finishing your bachelor’s degree, studying a new field, or earning a certificate or master’s degree gives you the power to choose from more career possibilities and make a greater impact on your personal success. Higher Ed, Higher Pay Individuals who hold a bachelor’s degree receive an average wage of $32.49 an hour — over 60% more than those with some college experience. Invest in Yourself Few investments yield as high a return as a college degree, according to The Brookings Institution. When you invest in higher education, you are investing in your future. Lower Unemployment The unemployment rate for people with a bachelor’s degree is less than half what it is for workers who have earned an associate degree or less, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Support Built on a Solid Foundation A leader in online education, UCF understands that online learning requires a different approach to helping you stay engaged and succeed. The UCF Online Connect Center provides a dedicated staff of coaches who personally support you — from deciding if online is a good fit for you through graduation. Our coaches are equipped to help you with work/school/life balance, navigate the university’s many systems, and connect you with the resources you need. Hours of Operation Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Get Connected Meeting the Need of a Growing Workforce What does the future of the workforce look like? According to the McKinsey Global Institute, automation will affect some of the largest job categories in the U.S., including office support, food service, production work and retail sales. The industries that offer the most opportunities for growth and stability include healthcare, engineering and hospitality. Explore Healthcare Degrees Explore Engineering Degrees Explore Hospitality Degrees Explore Leadership and Management Degrees Explore Criminal Justice and Pre-Law Degrees Explore Education Degrees 18% Healthcare Job Growth by 2026 65,000 New Engineering Jobs by 2024 3.5% Yearly Hospitality Job Growth $50/hr Median Pay for Management Positions Nationwide According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Get the online degree you want. UCF Online has fully online programs that include bachelor’s degrees, master’s degrees, graduate certificates and doctorates, plus a talented team of student success coaches to help find what’s right for you. Or Browse By: All Programs Fastest Growing Majors* Fastest Growing Majors* Legal Studies, BA/BS Health Informatics and Information Management, BS Communication and Conflict, BA Psychology, BS Master of Public Administration, MPA Master of Social Work Online MSW Hospitality and Tourism Management, MS Executive Master of Health Administration, EMHA Crime Analysis Event Management *By Enrollment | Data provided by ikm.ucf.edu. Get Connected. Contact the UCF Online Connect Center to learn more about the available online programs or for help finding an online degree that works for you. Hours of Operation: Mon – Fri: 8 a.m. – 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Call Now Why earn a degree from UCF Online? Access. Innovation. Impact. UCF Online is a community of thinkers, helpers and makers who use bold ideas to challenge the ordinary and devise solutions to solve the world’s most pressing problems. A great university can unleash the potential to change the world. Listed as one of the most innovative universities in the nation by the U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges 2021 Guide, UCF specializes in providing high-quality online degree programs for those talented students and working professionals who are unable to physically attend our Orlando main campus or one of our 14 Central Florida locations. Online Degree Programs Online Bachelor’s Online Master’s Online Graduate Certificates Online Doctorates Online Minors Top Online Healthcare Programs Top Online Engineering Programs Top Online Hospitality Programs Top Online Public Service Degrees Top Online Leadership & Management Degrees Top Online Education Degrees Admissions Info Transfer Admissions Graduate Admissions International Admissions Military Admissions Tuition Tuition and Costs Financial Aid Fee Waiver Student Support Online Student Resources UCF Online Connect Center All Student Resources Learning Online Downloads Complaint Submission About UCF Videos Accreditation About UCF News Top Online Degree Rankings Privacy Notice Contact Us Faculty Support 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida, 32816 Call today • 855-903-8576 Hours of Operation: Mon - Fri: 8 a.m. - 7 p.m. (ET) Sat: 10 a.m. - 2 p.m. (ET) Closed Sundays & Holidays Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube State Restrictions Complaint Resolution © 2022 University of Central Florida