Eligibility for CAPS Services - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Counseling and Psychological Services Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Counseling and Psychological Services Home About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Services First Visit (Triage) Essential Skills Workshops Single Session Therapy (SST) Group Counseling Couples Counseling (Short-Term) Individual Counseling (Short-Term) Community Referrals Crisis Intervention CAPS Defusing and Debriefing Process Conduct Assessment and Response Team Helping Students of Concern Get help for Sexual Assault What to do if you are in crisis Resources Harrassment, Assault/Abuse English Language Learners Faculty & Staff Parents & Loved Ones Race Related Stress Resources Self-Help Resources Students First Generation College Students What is Greek Life? International Students LGBTQIA Career Resources Student Athletes Students of Color Students with Children Students with DisABILITIES Returning Adult Students Veterans Texas Sanctuary Cities FAQ Undocumented Students DACA: What You Need to Know DACA FAQ Dream Scholars UH Resources COVID-19 Resources Outreach Outreach Request College Student Grief Awareness Let's Talk Program CAPS Liaisons Suicide Prevention Training: QPR Coogs Conquer (C-2) Series Support Groups Latinas REACH Sista Circle: Black Grads Rainbow Wellness Group Newsletters Calendar Clinical Training APA Internship Practicum Training Forms Appeals Authorization to Release of Medical Records Informed Consent for Counseling Services Medical Withdrawal Application Giving UH Home Counseling and Psychological Services About Us Eligibility for CAPS Services About Us Accreditations Contact & Location Information Statement on Diversity Office Hours Mission and Vision CAPS Staff Confidentiality Eligibility for CAPS Services Fees Eligibility for CAPS Services UH Students All currently enrolled students at the University of Houston are eligible for a free initial triage appointment. During this appointment it will be determined if CAPS is the appropriate treatment provider depending on the student’s presenting concern. Typically, this means that a student’s issue can be addressed through short-term counseling or one of our other short-term service offerings. If a student needs more specialized services or longer-term counseling, we may refer the student to service providers in the community that can better meet the student’s needs. Summer Eligibility UH Students enrolled in any summer session are eligible for CAPS services. Exception: Students who are enrolled in the upcoming semester are eligible for 1 semester prior to when they begin classes. They need to pay the following fees: $25 Individual Counseling Fee (instead of the standard fee rate). All other services are charged at our standard fee rates. New and Transfer Students Students must be currently enrolled at the University of Houston and paying student services fees in order to receive services at CAPS. Proof of enrollment will be required in the form of a registered class schedule at the time the student presents for the Initial Consultation. Students on Medical Withdrawal In some cases, a client who medically withdraws from UH may continue receiving CAPS services for up to one semester following the semester in which the medical withdrawal was granted. In these cases, the student’s prognosis should indicate that their concerns can be addressed in brief individual or group counseling and that they are actively engaged and committed to their treatment plan. Medical Withdrawal students need to pay the following fees: $25 Individual Counseling Fee (instead of the standard fee rate). All other services are charged at our standard fee rates. UH Faculty and Staff Current UH employees are eligible for crisis triage and referrals. See the current fee schedule. Related Links Fees University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies