COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Writing Center Section Menu Composition & Linguistics Home Composition Linguistics Faculty Course Guidebooks Writing Center Frequently Asked Questions Creative Writing English Literature Contact Us The Wichita State University Writing Center is a free writing resource available to all WSU students. Trained undergraduate tutors from a variety of majors will help you at any stage of your writing--from brainstorming to later stage work and revisions. Also available are graduates of our BA program and graduate-level tutors, many of whom are working toward their MA in English or MFA in Creative Writing. We Offer Brainstorming assistance Help with developing a topic Specific writing problem assistance Help with revisions Development of critical reading leading to more enhanced writing Assistance with sentence, grammatical, or punctuation errors. Online grammar exercises We Will Not We will not edit or proofread papers, correct grammatical and mechanical errors, revise papers for students, rewrite sentences or paragraphs, write introductions or conclusions, or guarantee good grades on papers. For extensive writing projects, such as theses, please call Kerry Jones, Writing Center director at 978-3173. Online Writing Center During the COVID-19 crisis, the Writing Center's online services are available to all Wichita State students. Come get help now! Online Writing Center Contact Us For more information about the writing center, contact Kerry Jones, Writing Center director at 316-978-3173 or send her an email at kerry.jones@wichita.edu. Her office is 600 Lindquist Hall, directly across from the Writing Center. Location The Writing Center is nestled high above campus on the sixth floor of Lindquist Hall, room 601. Our telephone number is 316-978-3173. Appointments are not necessary, but are available and especially convenient for those students with hectic schedules or who must commute to WSU. If you're traveling icy I-135 from Hutchinson at the end of November, it's nice to know someone will be there and ready to help! During especially inclement weather, please call the Writing Center and make sure we're open for business. Sometimes we do have to close early, and sometimes, due to weather conditions, we are forced to operate on a skeleton staff. If you can't make it to the Writing Center in person, you can still receive help with your writing project remotely through the Online Writing Center. Simply enroll the Online Writing Center's Blackboard page and submit your document. You'll receive feedback from a trained tutor within two business days. For example, if you submit a document at 4 p.m. on Friday, you can expect to receive comments on it by 4 p.m. Tuesday. Check Out the Online Writing Center Now Hours Fall 2021 Hours (subject to change) Monday: 11-4:30; 5-7 Tuesday: 3-7 Wednesday: 11-4:30 Thursday: 1:30-7 Friday: 11-4 We generally close early the day before scheduled holidays, and we are closed during the holidays. The Writing Center opens the first full week of class (Monday) and closes for the semester on the last day of class. We are not open during finals. Writing Resources For additional help, check out these on-line services: University of Kansas The Bedford Handbook Citation Manuals and Style Guides: MLA Format APA Becoming a Tutor If you are interested in becoming a Writing Tutor, please stop by the Writing Center for an application or visit Kerry Jones, Writing Center director. You should be able to refer to at least two English classes that you have taken at WSU, and that you list a professor who can vouch for your writing skills and recommend you as a tutor. We also ask that you provide a current transcript of your work here at WSU. As always, good oral and written communication skills are an absolute must! 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©