Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Academics Degrees Executive and Professional Education Winter Storm Update/Impacts to Campus and Services Last Updated 12:50pm Fri May 6 See Coronavirus Updates for information on campus protocols. Professional Non-Degree Programs Professional Non-Degree Programs Executive and Professional Education Columbia Mailman executive and professional education programs allow students to expand their knowledge, increase their skills, or earn a graduate degree without interrupting their career. Executive (EXEC) Programs in Healthcare Management (MHA/MPH) The Executive (EXEC) Programs in Healthcare Management (MHA/MPH) provide a unique interdisciplinary education across three areas of expertise: organizational leadership and management, health policy and public health, and health systems. The executive programs are designed for healthcare professionals who come from an extraordinary range of career fields including government agencies, hospitals, consulting companies, pharmaceutical corporations, insurance companies, finance, foundations and other healthcare enterprises. Columbia provides a world-class education shaped by faculty members in the Department of Health Policy and Management who are at the forefront of influencing the healthcare system. These instructors are experts in the field who are able to integrate current practical applications into an academic curriculum. Using a unique combination of teaching methodologies, including case studies, simulations, and collaborative learning, the EXEC Programs help students connect theories and models to the realities of the workplace. Learn more > The Executive MS in Epidemiology Columbia’s Executive Master of Science in Epidemiology is a rigorous research degree program designed to provide working health professionals with the knowledge, skills, and credentials needed to engage in population health research. Students gain a command of major concepts and techniques in epidemiology and a solid foundation in biostatistics with a focus on applied skills, including advanced modeling using SAS software. Classes meet one long weekend a month (Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) for 20 months, divided into five semesters, which allows for continued full-time work outside the classroom. When class is not in session, students collaborate on projects and submit assignments using an online course platform. Throughout the program, the majority of Exec MS students also communicate with their instructors and classmates via phone or email. It is not necessary to live in New York City to complete this degree. Learn more > Part-time Management MHA The Part-Time Management Program (PTM) is a 28-month evening program geared toward candidates who are working and have at least one year of experience in a health-related industry. Courses integrate professional experience into the classroom, and provide the knowledge and skills needed for advancement in health services management and planning. Learn more > More to Explore Friday 03June COVID-19: From Causes to ConsequencesMay 27 2022 Columbia University Honors School's Pandemic LeadershipMay 19 2022 Major Uptick Reported in Cannabis Vaping for All AdolescentsMay 19 2022 For Wetland Plants, Sea-Level Rise Stamps Out Benefits of Higher CO2May 18 2022 Sign up for Transmission Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers