Skip to main content Search Cornell Cornell Video Explore Home Browse Recent Trending Playlists Series Speakers Topics Contributors Submit MyPlaylist Play all in MyPlaylist Ask a Question tbd Name Email Address Question Send or cancel × Ask a Question Successful Thanks, ! Your question has been submitted. × Cornell’s K-12 programs complete successful online summer Posted on August 25, 2020 By Cornell Tech, Media Relations and News Video Platform Video Management Video Solutions Video Player facebook twitter share interactive transcript request transcript/captions live captions download HD video SD video audio | MyPlaylist start: now end: now reset copy link copy embed X SPEAKER 1: These are the joint mechanisms, and in the back is the pulley. And this is how it moves. Oh, and also you can move the tail. SPEAKER 2: My nature-inspired robot is a 3D cheetah. SPEAKER 3: So the air pressure from the bottle blows up the vocal sac. DIANE LEVITT: Kids, you know, they want to create. That's, like, they're wired to create, right? And when you give them permission and you treat them like artists and creators and designers and engineers, that's how they behave. NITI PARIKH: How do you engage someone on a screen? With the tactile materials, right, and that had to be done by creating that work surface and right tools around them. We came up with a basic kit, including a hole puncher, which was a really crucial thing for kind of creating certain mechanisms. And then they all had this very similar palette of materials to work from. So we went through a whole series of making a belt, a pulley. By doing that, it kind of clicked everywhere. Like, oh, I made that belt. Now I can put it on the pulleys. I can move this belt and make this axis go up and down because of this, this, and this. KELLY POWERS: Our discussions were rich because we were solving together. And I think, when we leave this experience with the kids, we know-- we've taught them the benefits of collaboration, the power of collaboration, the power of perseverance, the joy of solving a really difficult problem. SPEAKER 4: This is my snake saying "Hi." NITI PARIKH: Seeing that joy in their eyes was amazing. SPEAKER 1: Bye, guys. I hope you enjoyed it. SPEAKER 5: You know, like a special shout-out to everyone who appreciates me and tells me that they like what I have to say. I love all of you. Big hearts out there. CAMRYN AMES: It's a college prep program that basically, socially and educationally, prepares you for college. And they help you with college, not just getting ready for it, getting into that college that you want to get into. And the one thing that I absolutely love with the program is the association. Everyone's so nice. Everyone's amazing. It's just a beautiful community that we've all come together [INAUDIBLE]. SPEAKER 5: And, literally, you guys are so great. Like, I love interacting with all of you. You know, like we're in these tiny groups and then you turn on your cameras and we're chatting. And, like, me and Morgan chatted for a whole hour about an American [INAUDIBLE]. Like, you guys just literally just let me be. And you appreciate me, and I appreciate that so much. LIZ MILLHOLLEN: Wow, like, total wow. That first call, we had 89 students on the call. And for us, that was absolutely the wind in our sails to keep it interesting, to keep it fun, to, you know, have as much authentic interaction as possible. We sort of stopped talking to the screen and started talking to the people in the squares and had a mentality of that, and it's kept their attention. SPEAKER 6: What a summer. Goodbye, friends. Transcript Request Form Name Email Address Disability Accommodation? Disability Accommodation? Yes No Affiliation -Select- Faculty Staff Student Alumni Other Send Request Cancel X We've received your request You will be notified by email when the transcript and captions are available. The process may take up to 5 business days. Please contact cornellcast@cornell.edu if you have any questions about this request. Cornell Tech and Upward Bound adapted their traditional summer K-12 programs for online learning. More About k-12 virtual learning distance learning What to watch next 3:48 MyPlaylist Bronx high schoolers aim for college, via Cornell 4:18 MyPlaylist Cornell students assist youngsters in making video 1:48 MyPlaylist Summer College Fashion Studio director Alana Staiti surprise me Subscribe Submit Content Contact us RSS Cornell on YouTube Give Feedback Name Email Comments Send or cancel × Feedback Thanks for writing. We will be in touch shortly to address any questions, concerns, or technical difficulties you may have. × Schedule of Future Events There are no live broadcasts scheduled. × Email Updates See what's new on CornellCast and find out what's coming up next — and how you can take part. Subscribe to receive weekly CornellCast updates via email. Email address Subscribe or cancel × Subscribe Our hamsters have processed your subscription request and advise that the weekly update messages will contain details on unsubscribing in case you need them. × List Sent Our hamsters have processed your request and advise that a summary has been sent to the email address entered. × RSVP to this Live Event tdb tbd Enter your email below to be notified when this event begins Name Email Address Set reminder for Set reminder for 5 minutes 15 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour 1 day before the event starts. RSVP or cancel × RSVP Successful You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email reminder before the show begins. You may request additional reminders for other times if you wish. You can also add this event to a calendar of your choice iCal/Outlook/other Google calendar For iCal, an .ics file will be downloaded to your computer or device. You may need to take additional steps to add the event to your personal calendar. × Settings Let us know your preferences and our accommodating hamsters will snap to it! Autoplay: on off Update or cancel × Follow this tbd tbd Enter your email below to be notified when new related videos become available. Name Email Address Follow or cancel × Thanks for Your Interest You should receive an email confirmation shortly. We will send you an email message when new related videos are posted. ×