Skip to content marquette.edu // Search // Contacts // A-Z Index Marquette UniversityFirst-generation College Students First-generation College Students Welcome Welcome to Marquette About Office of Engagement and Inclusion Student Affairs at Marquette Student Resources Academic Life Academic Advising Academic Terms Adjusting to College Etiquette for Online Learning Classroom Etiquette Email Etiquette Majors and Minors Understanding CheckMarq Financial Information Billing Financial Aid Financial Terms Employment Other Resources Campus and Other Resources Letters of Recommendation Get Involved: MARQUEE (Marquette Events and Engagement) Lunch with President Lovell Students who are interested in signing up to have lunch with Dr. Lovell can do so by submitting their information via the online form. Diversity Advocates Diversity Advocates are passionate about creating an inclusive and welcoming campus community. Learn more. First Gen Network Office of Engagement and Inclusion Contact Us Marquette.edu // Office of Engagement and Inclusion // First-generation College Students Marquette University Receives First Gen Forward Designation; National Honor for Commitment to First-generation Student Success Learn more. At Marquette, we are committed to supporting a diverse student body. First generation college students — students whose parent(s) did not complete a four-year college degree — are an integral part of our student body. Approximately 22 percent of Marquette students are first generation.* As the first in your family to attend college, you may be experiencing much excitement as well as nervousness about the next few years. You may be wondering about what to expect as a student at Marquette. This website is designed to highlight the various resources, services and people at Marquette who are dedicated to helping you achieve academic, financial, social and professional success. We understand that transitioning from high school to college can be intimidating, especially if you have limited familiarity with the college experience. It is our hope that this website helps you navigate through Marquette as you work toward a college degree. *This percentage is based on Fall 2021 enrollment. In Fall 2021 there were 1,705 first-generation undergraduate students out of 7,660 total undergraduates. Source: Office of Institutional Research and Analysis, Student Enrollment/FTE Interactive Report Other Info About First-generation College Students Hear the Stories of Other First-generation College Students Join the network Student Affairs at Marquette Learn More About Your Roadmap to Success First Generation College Student Guide First Gen Teams backgrounds First Gen email signature graphics Academic Life Academic advising Academic terms Adjusting to college Etiquette for online learning Classroom Etiquette Email etiquette Majors and minors Understanding CheckMarq Financial Information Billing Financial aid Financial terms Employment Helpful Resources Office of Engagement and Inclusion Campus and other resources First Generation College Celebration First Generation College Student Network Interviews with first generation faculty, staff, and alums Five tips for parents of first generation students Letters of recommendation Get Involved: MARQUEE (Marquette Events and Engagement) PROBLEM WITH THIS WEBPAGE? Report an accessibility problem To report another problem, please contact cei@marquette.edu Location Marquette University Alumni Memorial Union, 437 Milwaukee, WI 53233 Phone: (414) 288-7206 Key Resources Campus contacts Campus map Contact us Search marquette.edu eMarq CheckMarq D2L MyJob MARQUETTE A to Z ABCDEFGHIJKLM NOPQRSTUVWXYZ Privacy Policy Legal Disclaimer Non-Discrimination Policy Accessible Technology © 2022 Marquette University ©