Skip to the main content United States Air Force Academy Go to home page image/svg+xml Page 1 Go to home page Link to home page Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today Menu Search the Site Academics A rigorous academic program that balances STEM with the arts and humanities. Academics Core Curriculum Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Registrar Faculty and Staff Directory Academic Success Center Request a Transcript Investigator or Verifications Admissions News Research Learn more about cutting-edge research that supports the Air Force and our global society. Research Office of Research Research Centers Cadet Summer Research STEM Outreach Future Conflict Cadet Life Take a peek into the life of a United States Air Force Academy cadet. Cadet Life Dormitories & Dining Cadet Clubs Cadet Support Services Day in the Life Frequently Asked Questions Military With a focus on innovation and adaptation to the changing world of warfare, we’re setting higher expectations for what it means to serve. Military Basic Cadet Training Squadrons Airmanship Military Careers Wings of Blue Athletics About There’s no limit to what you will achieve here. Academics. Athletics. Military training. We deliver the future leaders of modern warfare. About Leadership Character Development History Awards Traditions Educational Innovation More Virtual Tour Radio Parents Graduates Visitors Prep School Graduation Newsletter Apply Today The U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School Prep-School-52078353336_582d644b02_k Prep-School-52078353336_582d644b02_k In This Section: Prep Academics Prep Athletics Military Training Student Life Exemplar Hall of Fame Admissions Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Sponsor Program The U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School was established in 1961 under the command of Colonel Lee Charles Black. Today, the preparatory school offers a select group of enlisted personnel and civilians, a pathway to join the cadre at the Academy. The school provides the academic, leadership, and physical skills to prepare them for success as future officers. While cadet candidates are not guaranteed an appointment to the Academy, they earn consideration and a recommendation from the preparatory school commander if they successfully complete the 10-month program. There is no independent application process for the Preparatory School unless you are enlisted. If you apply to the Academy and are not offered an appointment, you will be automatically considered for admission into the Preparatory School. Admission is limited to selected civilian students, enlisted members, and reservists who meet admission requirements. More Information Prep School Academic Calendar 2020-2021 (revised for COVID-19) Contact Us U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School 5220 Cedar Drive, Suite 117 USAF Academy, CO 80840 (719)333-PREP (719)333-7737 prepinfo@usafa.edu × Explore More Academy Academics Academy Athletics Academy Character & Leadership Development ACADEMICS Departments Majors & Minors Library Academic Calendar Research Centers Faculty and Staff Directory CAMPUS Events Employment Emergency Weather Helping Agencies Apps COMMUNITY AF CyberWorx USAFA Band Force Support Wings of Blue VISIT Visitors Campus Map Facilities Cadet Chapel Planetarium Base Access Contact Us Social Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Flickr © 2022 United States Air Force Academy, All Rights Reserved The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the Department of the Air Force or the information, products, or services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the Department of the Air Force does not exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these locations. Such links provided are consistent with the stated purpose of this DOD Web site.