COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW WSU News - All Stories For WSU News and WSU Today content older than July 2018, Search the WSU News Archive. WSU News Archive Return to WSU News Home Filter by: All students Applied Learning Faculty/Staff Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences pandemic community Alumni College of Engineering COVID-19 Research Graduate Profiles Community Engagement Innovation Campus Life Diversity/Inclusion Scholarships Talent Pipeline Innovation Campus College of Applied Studies College of Health Professions SearchDirectory Filter Search Students from 11 new cities will soon pay in-state tuition to attend WSU March 16, 2022 — Further expanding its reach of access and affordability, Wichita State University has added 11 cities to its Shocker City Partnership — meaning eligible students from those cities are offered in-state tuition rates to attend WSU. WSU announces winners of $64,000 Gore Scholarship Jan. 28, 2022 —Wichita State University has selected the 2022 recipients of the Harry Gore Memorial Scholarships. Each student will receive a $64,000 scholarship to attend WSU in fall 2022. Eligible Illinois students can soon pay in-state tuition to attend Wichita State University Nov. 30, 2021 -- Beginning fall 2022, eligible students from Illinois will be able to attend Wichita State University for the same cost as in-state tuition, a significant savings that will provide increased access and affordability to a growing number of students. Wichita State gains national attention for its support of transfer students March 8, 2021 — Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society (PTK) named Wichita State University as one of 150 colleges and universities to its 2021 Transfer Honor Roll in recognition of the dynamic pathways it has created to support transfer students. From one student to another: Why we should register now for spring 2021 classes Nov. 5, 2020 – Spring 2021 registration begins Nov. 9. Here are the benefits of registering for classes earlier rather than later. Are you a student from one of these cities? If so, Wichita State will give you a big discount Aug. 6, 2020 -- Wichita State provides discounted tuition rates to new students from certain areas in Colorado, Illinois, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas. Hyatt Place hotel to break ground next week at WSU Aug. 20, 2019 -- The first hotel on the Wichita State campus is beginning construction. A 106-room Hyatt Place hotel will break ground next week on Wichita State’s Innovation Campus, within walking distance of the new Fuzzy’s Tacos, the Shocker Store and Starbucks. Students spread love of WSU through Public Relations Institute July 1, 2019 -- Wichita State University admissions created the Public Relations Institute (PRI) in the fall of 2018 to foster goodwill among WSU alumni and community stakeholders through outreach and presence at community events. At the time, PRI consisted of only three students and two staff advisors, but their impact spread across the Wichita area. WSU receives another honor for its support of transfer students April 5, 2019 -- Wichita State University is one of just 78 universities and colleges in the United States to be named to the Phi Theta Kappa Honor Society’s 2019 Transfer Honor Roll. WSU is the No.1 transfer destination for community college transfer students, again March 22, 2019 - Once again, Wichita State has been named the No.1 transfer destination from Kansas community colleges to public state universities. Kansas Board of Regents (KBOR) recently released its annual Transfer Feedback Report, announcing that WSU remains the No. 1 transfer destination for eight years in a row. WSU expands in-state tuition offer to additional cities in Midwest Nov. 7, 2018 -- Wichita State University is continuing to expand its appeal outside of the Wichita area by now offering in-state tuition to students living in several additional metropolitan areas in the Midwest. Now even more students will have the opportunity to enroll in the high-quality academic programs at Wichita State for an affordable price. WSU to offer courses to military students at McConnell Aug. 23, 2018 -- A new partnership between Wichita State University and McConnell Air Force Base will provide military personnel the opportunity to work toward their bachelor's degree while on base. 1 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©