Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links English Department Menu Main Nav English Department English Department Contact Back Back Close About Overview Giving to English Learning Outcomes Contact News and Notes People Overview Alumni Faculty Publications Open Positions Undergraduate Overview Undergraduate Courses English Honors Program Undergraduate Writing Awards Award Recipients 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2015-2016 2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 2011-2012 2010-2011 2009-2010 Advising Concentrations & Interdiciplinary Minors Study Abroad English Internships Related Links BC Writing Center Graduate Overview Master of Arts Program Admission Financial Aid FAQ Irish Literature and Culture Irish Literature and Culture Guidelines The Burns Scholar Calendar of Events Alumni Masters of Arts in Teaching Teacher Training B.A./M.A. Program Students Student News Testimonials Alumni M.A. Policies and Procedures Doctoral Program Student News Placements Doctoral Program FAQs Graduate Colloquium Student Profiles Ph.D. Dissertations Certificate in Digital Humanities Graduate Awards Graduate Courses Working Groups Programs Overview Resources Why an English Major? Close Contact Directory A to Z Listing Search Classics Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close English Department Home Graduate Graduate Master of Arts Program Doctoral Program Certificate in Digital Humanities Graduate Awards Graduate Courses Working Groups Graduate A thriving division of a research university with over 1,000 graduate students, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Boston College offers three graduate degrees in English: the M.A., the M.A.T. and the Ph.D. The M.A. program also offers a concentration in Irish Literature and Culture. Students interested in digital methodologies can also pursue coursework toward a Graduate Certificate in Digital Humanities, which can be done as part of their existing M.A. and Ph.D. requirements. Students receiving fellowships at both the M.A. and Ph.D. levels teach in the undergraduate classroom, and a Graduate School of Arts and Sciences program offers funds for travel to conferences for students giving professional papers. M.A. and Ph.D. students organize the Biennial Graduate Conference. Get Started Request Info Apply Now Boston College Resources The English Department is home to a number of working groups that bring graduate students and faculty together around a shared scholarly interest. These include the Early Modern Reading Group, the Religion and Literature Collaborative, the American Studies Working Group, the Pedagogy Seminar, and the Postcolonial Social Theory and the Sociology of Race. Boston College boasts a system of eight linked libraries (containing over two million volumes), along with state of the art online access. The rare books collection at the Burns Library offers significant holdings in Irish culture, literature and history; British Catholic authors; and ethnic studies of Africana and Caribbeana. Members of the English department have participated in exhibitions mounted by Boston College's McMullen Museum of Art. Boston College is also the home of a nationally-recognized program in Irish Studies, and the interdisciplinary journal Religion and the Arts. Boston College belongs to a consortium of universities sharing variety of resources: library privileges from local universities such Wellesley, Tufts, Brandeis, M.I.T., University of Massachusetts and Boston University; the opportunity to take graduate courses at several of these universities; and a new alliance within the Traveling Scholars Program of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). Boston College also participates in the Graduate Consortium in Women's Studies at M.I.T, and faculty and students alike partake in seminars held at the Humanities Center at Harvard University. Local Resources The Boston area has a thriving cultural scene, with local universities and bookstores hosting events of interest to our graduate students. University humanities centers: BU Center for the Humanities Suzy Newhouse Center, Wellesley Mandel Center for the Humanities, Brandeis Tufts Center for the Humanities Mahindra Humanities Center, Harvard MIT Humanities University arts and performance events: Wellesley Arts Events Brandeis Arts Events Tufts Art Gallery Calendar Harvard Arts Calendar Arts at MIT Author readings at bookstores and libraries: Brookline Booksmith Breakwater Reading Series Harvard Book Store Newtonville Books Boston Public Library Boston Athenaeum Our Location Located six miles west of downtown Boston, the university is easily accessible by public transportation from Boston, Cambridge, and surrounding residential communities. Boston College is part of one of the richest intellectual and cultural environments in the country, with unparalleled local resources in research libraries, archives, historical and fine arts museums, and public events of all kinds. Research holdings in the area include the Boston Public Library, the John F. Kennedy Library, the Houghton Library at Harvard University and the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America at Radcliffe College. Please use the following links for more information: M.A. Program B.A./M.A. Program Concentration in Irish Literature and Culture Ph.D. Program Requests for applications to the graduate program should be sent to the graduate School of Arts and Sciences at gsasinfo@bc.edu. Meet Our Students Driven, reflective, and forward-thinking, our students are astute scholars who come from a variety of backgrounds. MA Students PhD Students Back To Top Back To Top English Department Stokes Hall South, 4th floor 617-552-3708 Facebook Twitter Instagram Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 140 Commonwealth Avenue Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Give to English Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College