Academics Skip to content Skip to primary navigation Skip to search box Skip to admissions quick links Skip to breadcrumb TC Menu Search for people, news & websites Go Resource Links Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Columbia Library myTC Directory Apply Now Request Info Search Bar Primary Navigation About Academics Admission & Aid Faculty & Research News Give to TC TC Academics Resources Toggle Tertiary Menu Academic Calendar Academic Catalog Course Search Academics at Teachers College When you earn a degree from Teachers College, you’re earning more than a professional credential. You’re securing a passport to success from one of the greatest communities of lifelong learning. The first, largest and perennially among the top-ranked graduate schools of education in the country, TC has a legacy of inventing and shaping new fields of inquiry. Located in the diverse and historic Morningside Heights and adjacent to Harlem, Teachers College is an ideal place to experience the vibrancy of New York City. Here, you’ll join a community of thinkers and doers who believe in blending theory with practice in the pursuit of equity and social justice. With more than 100 programs to choose from, you’re certain to find the program you need to lead and succeed in the fields of education, psychology, health, and leadership. Explore Academic Programs Your graduate studies in Education, Health, Psychology & Leadership at TC will give you access to world-class scholars, cutting-edge research, state-of-the-art facilities and labs, and a social justice focus that will prepare you to change the world. Our departments work across disciplines to identify and apply solutions to local and global challenges. Explore Programs TC Building in Spring Discover Online Programs We offer many degree, non-degree, and advanced certificate programs online. Discover Online Programs Students typing on laptops Continuing Professional Studies We offer educational and corporate development programs that leverage TC’s world-renowned faculty and thought leadership. Our non-credit programs are designed to take both a practical and innovative approach to professional development and learning. Search Non-credit Programs Umbrellas in the courtyard on a sunny day. Contact Us Teachers College, Columbia University 525 West 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Tel: +1 (212) 678-3000 Map & Directions Directory Ask a Question Resources Admission & Aid Student Life Courses Academic Calendar Office of the Registrar Office of Teacher Education TC NEXT Employment Legal Consumer Information / Student Right to Know Legal Notices Policy Library Non-Discrimination Title IX Compliance Ethics Reporting Public Safety GDPR Notice Make a Gift to TC Diversity Work at TC TC Facebook TC Twitter TC Instagram TC Youtube TC LinkedIn © 2022, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027. Back to skip to quick links