Skip to main content Restrict my search to Office of the Provost Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Office of the Provost About Provost Paula Myrick Short Initiatives Deans of Colleges and Libraries Provost's Cabinet: Vice and Associate Provosts Office of the Provost Staff Presentations by Provost Paula Myrick Short Faculty Current Faculty Faculty Resources Underrepresented Women of Color Coalition Faculty Engagement and Development Faculty Awards Cougar Chairs Leadership Academy Grants Faculty Grievance Non-Tenure Track Faculty New Faculty Prospective Faculty Presidential Frontiers Faculty Faculty/Staff Administrators Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising Current Students Undergraduate Student Success Center Provost Prizes for Prose & Poetry New Coogs UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led Provost Summer Read Program Peer Assistants Global Students Learning Abroad International Students Graduate Students University Success SACSCOC University Accreditation UH Global Global Initiatives Global Citizens Credential Peace Corps Prep Program Center for ADVANCING UH Faculty Success Cougar Initiative to Engage (CITE) Houston Guided Pathways to Success About People Memorandum of Understanding Foundations of Excellence About Year 1: Foundational Dimensions Year 2: Themes Success Indicators Dashboard Postdoctoral Fellows at UH Academic Program Planning Committee on Academic Centers and Institutes Planning and Budgeting Policies and Resources Academic Honesty Policy Frequently Asked Questions Student Policies and Resources Student Resources Faculty Policies, Programs, and Resources Policies Programs Resources University Policies and Resources FERPA Resources Senate Bill 4 Frequently Asked Questions Honorary Degrees COVID-19 Updates and Resources News News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones UH Office of the Provost Marketing and Communications UH Home Office of the Provost News News UH Provost Paula Myrick Short Earns Emeritus Status News UH Provost Marketing and Communications News Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Contact Information For news items, please contact Mike Emery, Senior Director, at memery@central.uh.edu. UH Provost Paula Myrick Short Earns Emeritus Status UH System Board of Regents Recognizes Provost’s Many Contributions to the University By Mike Emery, 713-743-7197 To earn emeritus status in higher education, one must demonstrate an unwavering commitment to an institution and its mission. It’s a designation that further reinforces the legacy of an academic leader and their ongoing role in championing the institution they serve. University of Houston Senior Vice President of Academic Affairs and Provost Paula Myrick Short has done exactly that … and so much more. Her efforts in supporting student success and growing the University have not gone unnoticed, particularly by the University of Houston System Board of Regents. On May 19, the board unanimously voted to bestow the status of both faculty emeritus and senior vice president emeritus status to Short. She is UH’s first senior vice president emeritus. “Since assuming her post as provost, Dr. Short has driven the University of Houston enterprise to greater heights of excellence,” said UHS Chancellor and UH President Renu Khator. “Provost Short has made us proud and leaves a brilliant legacy that will be felt for generations.” In her remarks, Khator applauded the many initiatives led by Short, including UHin4, the Provost’s Summer Read Program, Houston Guided Pathways to Success, Passports for Coogs, Cub Camp, and others. She also touted Short’s work in developing the University’s strategic plan. “This plan is a blueprint for reaching greater heights in the new decade, which will make a long-lasting difference in the lives of countless students, faculty, staff members, and our community at large,” Khator said. Khator was quick to tout Short’s role in further diversifying UH’s tenured and tenure track faculty base. According to Khator, Black and Hispanic faculty members were increased by 40 percent, women faculty grew by 26 percent and the number of women full professors grew by 16 percent. Regent Beth Madison echoed Khator’s sentiments. As the vice chair of the Academic and Student Success Committee, Madison has worked closely with Short and expressed gratitude for the provost’s service to the UH community over the years. “I have been impressed with your dedication and professionalism,” she said. “You deserve this recognition and this honor.” Short is approaching 10 years on the job as senior vice president of academic affairs and provost, as well as UHS senior vice chancellor of academic affairs. Many of her contributions to the University are documented within the Provost’s Impact Report. Tilman J. Fertitta, chair of the UHS Board of Regents, further extended appreciation to Short for a job well done. “I’ve had the distinct pleasure of working with Paula for several years,” he said. “She has played a large part in the many great things that are happening at UH. We can’t tell you how much we appreciate your efforts in making this such a special university.” Short, who retires in August, will remain a part of the University family through many initiatives that will live on and impact future generations of students. Likewise, her steadfast dedication to higher education continues to inspire others throughout the campus and within our community. “I am humbled by this honor,” Short said. “This institution will always be a part of me. Earning two emeritus designations further reflects my dedication to the University of Houston and is clear indication that I will continue to advocate for this great institution for years to come.” University of Houston Ezekiel W. Cullen Bldg., Room 203 Houston, TX 77204 832-842-0550 About the Office of the Provost Travels With Shasta Cougar Milestones Office of the Provost Staff Faculty Awards Student Success Undergraduate Academic Advising UHin4: Four Year Graduation Plan Provost Summer Read Program Cub Camp: Student-Run, Student Led University Success Policies and Resources SACSCOC University Accreditation ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies