Full site navigation menu This dialog contains the full navigation menu for www.psu.edu. Search Term Hotline Give Apply View All Stories This is Penn State Mission and Values Equity and Inclusion Leadership History Facts and Rankings Our Impact Health Care Academics Undergraduate Graduate & Professional Schools Online Degrees Global Education Academic Colleges Campus Locations Admission Undergraduate Graduate Online Professional Schools Continuing Education Tuition and Aid Research Athletics News Latest News Academics Our Research Campus Life Athletics Administration Arts and Entertainment College and Campus News Find Information For: Visitors Prospective Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Business & Industry Veterans and Military Alumni Media Helpful Links Find a Campus Maps Careers Directory Academic Calendar Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Close One Community Impacting Many The Penn State community is imagining, collaborating, and inventing our way to a better world. universal A Community of Scientists Education First to Inspire Education Beyond Limitations economy Revitalizing a Community community Because we can improve our farms, with dividends downstream. universal Because the clothes we wear can light our way. education There's Always a Way universal The Evolution of Skin Color economy Sustaining Communities Through Small Business universal Protecting Pollinators education From the Waiting Room to the Living Room universal Seeing Without Sight community Preventing Teen Substance Abuse universal Forecasting Infectious Diseases universal Designing Sustainable Homes on Mars and Earth education Because we can get time back on our side when it comes to head injuries. community Because we have an obligation to protect people who need it. economy Teaming Up Against Bullying universal A Voice for All universal Linking Health and Population Patterns education Pairing Education with Recovery universal Clean Water, Cleaner Energy community Enhancing Access and Care universal Building a Better Bandage economy Because greener courses are good for business and the environment. Teaching students to be leaders with a global perspective. Conducting research that improves lives. Contributing millions to the economy and sharing expertise. Hotlines > Apply Now > Give Now > All Campuses > All Colleges > Penn State News > Employment Maps Contact Us Search 201 Old Main, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802 814-865-4700 Privacy Non-discrimination Equal Opportunity Accessibility Copyright The Pennsylvania State University © 2022