Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Jazz Studies Composition Major You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Jazz Studies Composition Major Apply Visit Request More Info Jazz Studies Composition Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Bachelor of Music in Jazz Studies Composition Refine your knowledge of jazz with a Bachelor of Music (BM) in Jazz Studies Composition in Temple’s Boyer College of Music and Dance. Graduates of this 123-credit degree program are prepared for careers in the composition, performance and teaching sectors of jazz, as well as jazz composition in both small and large ensembles. As an undergraduate student at Temple, you’ll study in one of the more influential cities in jazz history. Musicians such as John Coltrane, Dizzy Gillespie and Grover Washington spent significant time in Philadelphia. Many Jazz Studies Composition graduates go on to play professionally throughout the city. You’ll develop advanced knowledge for jazz analysis, arrangement, composition and improvisation through master classes, guest lectures and performances with some of the most renowned musicians and educators from around the country. Notable past guest instructors include Adam Nussbaum (percussion), Gary Smulyan (saxophone) and Warren Wolf (vibraphone). Jazz Composition majors will also take coursework focused on your instrument of choice, with private lessons and opportunities for recitals during your final semester. The Music Studies Department is small and close-knit, and faculty guide students throughout their time in the program. Learn more about the Jazz Studies and Composition BM degree curriculum. Explore Boyer Faculty Faculty Discover jazz studies faculty in the Boyer College of Music and Dance. Explore Boyer Faculty See faculty members in Boyer jazz studies degree programs. Classes & Curriculum The Jazz Studies Composition Major curriculum is intended to deepen your knowledge of jazz and music studies with the freedom to explore a liberal arts education. In addition to your instrumental concentration-specific courses, some of the core courses include Basic Conducting, The Business of Music, The History of Jazz, Jazz Studies, Jazz Composition Seminar, Music Theory and Music Technology. Learn more about curriculum specifics for the Bachelor of Music for Jazz Studies and Composition. Related Graduate Degrees Choral Conducting MM Composition MM Jazz Studies MM Music MA Music MS Music PhD Music Composition MM Music Education MM Music Education PhD Music History MM Music Technology MS Performance MM Related Graduate Certificates Professional Studies Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, the Bachelor of Music offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. Learn more about our tuition and fees. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $19,032.00 per year Out-of-state: $33,408.00 per year Our Academic Advisors The Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts has a centralized advising office with five staff members. This advising team serves all undergraduate students in the Boyer School of Music and Dance and the School of Theater, Film and Media Arts. Advisors help students navigate the undergraduate curriculum for each degree program. The academic advising team for Music, Dance, Theater, and Film and Media Arts majors is located in Mitten Hall, Suite 200 West. To schedule an advising appointment based on your individual needs or for more help, contact the advising team. Phone: 215-204-8301 Schedule an advising appointment. Program Contact Terell Stafford is the director of Jazz Studies. Phone: 215-204-8036 Email: terell.stafford@temple.edu Student Clubs & Organizations Participating in student groups provides peer support and future professional contacts. There are more than 200 student organizations at Temple University. Music Technology & Business Society of Temple University provides students with guidance and support for navigating the complex network of the modern music industry, in addition to providing space in which members can meet and discuss various creative and technical topics. National Association for Music Education is a conservatory chapter of the national organization of music educators. Semester activities include creating projects, presenting guest speakers and workshops, attending the PMEA All-State conference, participating in outreach activities, and learning to use various online music education resources. Temple University Percussion Club holds educational clinics, events and weekly meetings guided by percussion faculty members and professional percussionists, covering an array of drum-related topics such as percussion gear and marching percussion. Learn more about clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offers all full-time, degree-seeking students the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Host countries include Germany, Italy, Japan and Spain. Study abroad advisors will help you with your study abroad plans for either a Temple program or an external program. Learn more about your options for studying away. Conservatorium van Amsterdam Exchange places with a student from the Netherlands and study jazz at the Conservatorium van Amsterdam. While conservatory students study at Temple, immerse yourself for a semester or academic year in a historical city and at an institution that is more than 130 years old. Accreditation The Boyer College of Music and Dance is accredited by the American Music Therapy Association, National Association of Schools of Music, National Association of Schools of Dance and Pennsylvania Department of Education. Concentrations You can focus on Jazz Studies Composition or you can take one of the following concentrations. Bassoon Cello Clarinet Double Bass Euphonium Flute French Horn Guitar Harp Oboe Percussion Piano Saxophone Trombone Trumpet Tuba Viola Violin Voice BC-JSCO-BMUS Additional Program Information School/College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Jazz Studies Composition Major Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Ensembles & Performance Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Undergraduate Audition Requirements Apply Visit Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Visit Request More Info