By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate Apply FAQ More from this Section Deadlines Application Mailing Addresses Early Decision Enrollment Options College-Specific Requirements What We Look For AP/IB/CLEP Credits Common Application FAQ Syracuse University uses the Common Application to help make the admissions process easier. What parts of the Common Application are required for Syracuse University? Where can I find additional assistance on completing the Common Application? How do I submit my application if I have a fee waiver? I'm applying Early Decision. Where do I find the ED Agreement form? Will I receive confirmation when Syracuse University receives my application? What is the word count max/min for the questions in the Additional Information section? Do I have to select two choices for college/plan? I wish to apply to a dual major that is not listed in the supplement. I already submitted my application but I've changed my mind about the major I want to apply to. How do I correct this? I'm applying to the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Why is it asking me about Discovery Programs? Can I submit a portfolio/DVD/recording to enhance my application even if I'm not applying to a program for which it is required? How can I schedule my portfolio review or audition in person? Can I submit my portfolio or audition before submitting the Common Application? Do I need to submit an audition or portfolio if I'm applying to the College of Visual and Performing Arts or the School of Architecture as my second or third choice? The extracurricular section of the Common Application is limited to a list of 10 activities and I have more to add. Can I submit a letter of recommendation from someone other than academic teacher? My teacher is unable to load the teacher recommendation form from the Common Application website. As a transfer applicant, whom should I submit as the Registrar in the “Assign Recommenders” section? How can I submit additional forms/information separate from the Common Application? When will I hear back from Syracuse? Does Syracuse have an early action plan? Does Syracuse superscore? What parts of the Common Application are required for Syracuse University? Link Once you choose Syracuse University as one of your selected schools, it will be added to your Dashboard. You will see there are two items to complete—the application and the writing requirements. The application includes: Questions FERPA Agreement Assign Recommenders Application fee payment – $85* These sections must be completed in order to submit your application. *Refer to the question below about qualifying for a fee waiver. Where can I find additional assistance on completing the Common Application? Link The Applicant Support Center is a great resource with FAQs, video tutorials, and access to technical support. Transfer applicants can reference the Transfer Applicant Help Center. How do I submit my application if I have a fee waiver? Link In the "Profile" section of the Common Application you will indicate and sign that you qualify for a fee waiver, based on the indicators of economic need listed in this section. This will allow you to submit your application without paying the fee. Once you submit your application, be sure to submit the appropriate documentation to Syracuse University to show that you qualify for the fee waiver. The application fee is $85. There are a few ways to receive a fee waiver: Students who received an SAT or ACT fee waiver may forward a copy to our office; If you have received a waiver from NACAC, we will accept this; School counselors may request an application fee waiver for students for whom it would present a financial hardship. This request must come in writing on school letterhead and may be submitted as a PDF to orange@syr.edu. Any current or former member of the United States military (Veteran, Active-Duty, National Guard, Reserve, or Early Commissioning Program) will have their application fee automatically waived by completing the Veterans and Military Students Application. I'm applying Early Decision. Where do I find the ED Agreement form? Link There is no separate form, unless your school is using Naviance eDocs. If this is the case, a PDF of the ED Agreement will appear in the “Assign Recommenders” section. You will indicate in the “Questions” section of the Syracuse University Member Page that your preferred admission plan is Early Decision. Once you do, you will see a box of text explaining the terms of Early Decision. Select “Yes” for this statement. An additional box of text indicating that you have read and understand the terms of Early Decision, for which you should select “Yes.” You will be prompted to submit your electronic ED Signature. Once you sign, you will see in the “Assign Recommenders” section that you will need to invite a parent via email. Once they receive the email, your parent will be able to sign electronically. In addition, your counselor will also receive notice to sign electronically. If you applied for Regular Decision and now want to apply for ED, or if you’re having difficulty completing the electronic signatures, you may download and complete the Early Decision Agreement and mail or fax to us at: Undergraduate Admissions Processing Center Early Decision Review P.O. Box 37324 Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13235 orange@syr.edu Fax: 315.443.3423 Will I receive confirmation when Syracuse University receives my application? Link You will receive an email confirmation from the University once your applications are received. This can take up to 7-10 days from the time you submit through the Common Application. The email will allow you to access your SUID number and will include the process for setting up your MySlice account, which will provide you access to your Admissions and Financial Aid To-do lists. If you have not received confirmation after two weeks, you are welcome to email orange@syr.edu to have someone in the office check for you. Please note, Syracuse University will begin uploading applications from the Common Application beginning early September. If you submit your application prior to September 1, it may be a few weeks before you receive confirmation. What is the word count max/min for the questions in the Additional Information section? Link While there is no word minimum, please answer in a few sentences or 1-2 paragraphs. Responses should be less than 250 words. Note: There will be an additional question(s) on this page if you are applying to the Citizenship and Civic Engagement program in the College of Arts and Sciences or a Discovery Program, or if you indicated that you’d like to be considered for other options based on your interests and qualifications. The answers to these questions should also be kept to 250 words or less. Do I have to select two choices for college/plan? Link No. You must indicate your preferred choice, the second choice is optional. You may not be admissible to your first-choice however, you can still be considered for your second choice colleges/plan if space remains. If you only want to be considered for one college/plan, you should select it as your first choice and do not fill out the second choice field. You may also indicate that you would like to be considered for other options that may be a good fit based on your academic qualifications and interests. I wish to apply to a dual major that is not listed in the supplement. Link (For example, I'm interested in a major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, plus a major in the Setnor School of Music.) All of the dual majors to which you may apply are included as options for you to select on the application. If you are interested in pursuing a double major that is not offered, you may work with your faculty advisor(s) to do so once you are a student on campus. For now, choose the single enrollment college and major on the application that best fits your interests and include a second and third choice as applicable to your interests. Please refer to the list of dual/combined enrollment options. I already submitted my application but I've changed my mind about the major I want to apply to. How do I correct this? Link Send an email to orange@syr.edu and be sure to include your full name, date of birth and SUID number (if you have it). Indicate what program(s) you originally applied to and what you would like your new program(s) to be. I'm applying to the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Why is it asking me about Discovery Programs? Link Applicants to the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Engineering and Computer Science have the option of applying for Discovery Programs for which you would spend the fall semester of you freshman year in Florence, Madrid or Strasbourg. If you do not wish to apply for a Discovery Program, select "No" in the drop down menu. Can I submit a portfolio/DVD/recording to enhance my application even if I'm not applying to a program for which it is required? Link No. Syracuse University does not accept or review these items if they are not required for the program to which you are applying. You should answer “No” for the question asking if you intend to submit a portfolio or audition online. How can I schedule my portfolio review or audition in person? Link More information, including dates and locations, can be found here: Setnor School of Music Department of Drama School of Art and Design (art, design, transmedia) Can I submit my portfolio or audition before submitting the Common Application? Link If you intend to submit your portfolio for architecture, art, design, transmedia or non-performance programs in drama online rather than in person, you will need to submit your application prior to submitting your portfolio through SlideRoom. If you are applying to a performance-based program in the Department of Drama, you should submit your prescreen audition through Accept'd before submitting the Common Application. If you are applying to the Setnor School of Music you may submit your audition through Accept'd before or after submitting your audition. Note: portfolios for art, design and transmedia may only be submitted online. Do I need to submit an audition or portfolio if I'm applying to the College of Visual and Performing Arts or the School of Architecture as my second or third choice? Link Yes. If you are applying to ANY program for which it is required, even if it’s not your first choice, you will not be considered unless you submit the portfolio or audition. The extracurricular section of the Common Application is limited to a list of 10 activities and I have more to add. Link You may send your resume or additional activities to the Office of Admissions at orange@syr.edu and an Admissions officer will add it to your application. Can I submit a letter of recommendation from someone other than academic teacher? Link Your two academic recommenders must be teachers from your core academic subjects. You may submit an additional recommendation from someone such as an art/music teacher, coach or work supervisor if you feel this person would be able to provide additional insight to your academic abilities and personal character. My teacher is unable to load the teacher recommendation form from the Common Application website. Link Please have your teacher email your recommendations directly from his/her school email address to us at orange@syr.edu or have them sent to us by mail. View the proper mailing address. As a transfer applicant, whom should I submit as the Registrar in the “Assign Recommenders” section? Link You may enter the name of the person who will submit your official academic transcript or an academic/career advisor. Syracuse University does not require a recommendation or school report from your registrar. How can I submit additional forms/information separate from the Common Application? Link Additional materials can be sent to orange@syr.edu or mailed to our Undergraduate Admissions Processing Center. When will I hear back from Syracuse? Link Early decision admission notifications begin in late December and continue through January. The majority of students who applied Regular Decision will hear in late March. Transfer student notifications begin in early April and continue to go out weekly through the summer. Applicants are notified via email. Does Syracuse have an early action plan? Link Syracuse does not offer early action, only early decision and regular decision. Does Syracuse superscore? Link Yes, Syracuse superscores both the SAT and ACT. If you’ve taken either test multiple times, be sure to send scores from each test date. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy