Your browser does not support iframes. Skip to main content Menu Scheller College of Business Request More Information Attend an Info Session Contact Us Directory Apply Now Search Why Scheller? Programs Executive Education Academics Centers & Initiatives News & Events Overview & History Dean's Message and Report Meet Ernest Scheller Jr. Advisory Board Accreditation Strategic Plan Business at Tech Graduates Get Hired Return on Investment Faculty and Advisors Global Perspective A Good Fit Corporate Engagement Trading Floor Georgia Tech Community Student Life Making Connections and Learning Opportunities Diversity Diversity News Career and Recruiter Services Career Services for Students Hire Our Students Giving to the College Meeting the Challenge Priorities and Needs Faculty Support Student Support Program Enrichment Unrestricted Endowment The Impact of Your Gift How to Make a Gift FAQs Scheller MBA Annual Fund Alumni Network Alumni News Alumni Resources Update Contact Information Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Full-time MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQsEvening MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Advancement Leadership Development Student Organizations Student & Alumni Profiles Meet an MBA Ambassador FAQs Executive MBA Admissions Curriculum Career Development Student & Alumni Profiles FAQsMBA Programs Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MD/MBA Option MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Graduate Certificate Business Analytics Certificate Undergraduate Admissions Curriculum Career Services Student Services Student Life Scholarships & Awards Rankings & Stats Connect With Us The Intersection Podcast, Undergrad PhD Concentrations Program Milestones Faculty and Staff Funding Admissions FAQs Recruiting Events Student Bios Program News Request Program Information Interdisciplinary M.S. M.S. in Quantitative & Computational Finance (QCF) Master of Science in Analytics at Georgia Tech Lean Six Sigma Certification Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Certification Lean Six Sigma Black Belt Certification FAQs Custom Programs FAQs Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Engineering Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship International Management Management of Technology Technology Innovation: Generating Economic Results Academic Speaker Series Guest Speakers in Accounting Guest Speakers in Finance Guest Speakers in Marketing Current Faculty Opportunities Business Analytics Center Engage with Us Executive Council News Research Education People Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics About Cecil B. Day The Cecil B. Day Prize Speakers and Events Faculty Support Net Impact Center for International Business Education and Research Projects Research Events Books People at CIBER Inside CIBER News and Events Archives International Management Certificate Sign Up for Future CIBER News Financial Analysis Lab Subscribe to Reports Institute for Leadership and Social Impact About Us Programs News Impact Speaker Series Leadership for Social Good Study Abroad Program Social Impact Fellows Ideas to Serve (I2S) Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Servant Leadership Programs Minor in Leadership Studies Excel Alumni Other ILSI Programs Partnerships Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business About Us Sustainable Business Insights Research Briefs Sustainable Business Events Sustainable Business News Blog Research & Thought Leadership Empowering Students Industry Engagement Newsletter Participating in the Drawdown Georgia Compact Drawdown Georgia Business Compact Meet the Team Alumni Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program Director's Message About Steven A. Denning T&M Curriculum Program Faculty & Staff Admissions T&M Corporate Affiliates Denning T&M Program News TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta Program Network TI:GER MBA & PhD FAQs News Apply Inquire Resources in Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller MBA MD/MBA Option Home » Programs » MBA » MD/MBA Option » MD/MBA Option Menu MBA MD/MBA Option Full-time MBA Evening MBA Executive MBA Which Georgia Tech MBA is Right for Me? Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity Dual Degree Options Experiential Learning For Engineers For Military Community MBA Early Admission for Undergrads Rankings The Intersection Podcast Earn Your MBA in Atlanta Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business and Morehouse School of Medicine (MSM) have partnered to offer an M.D./MBA program. Pairing an MBA with an M.D. degree gives students a unique blend of skills to advance their careers. M.D./MBAs are able to complete their MBA in one year, while enrolled in the M.D. program, and without interrupting their career later. The program allows students to count 15 credit hours from their MSM M.D. degree courses toward their MBA elective requirements, reducing the cost and time required to complete the MBA degree. Why Pursue an M.D./MBA Degree Develop business acumen, strategic thinking, and communication skills to progress in leadership roles at healthcare companies, insurance companies, and government organizations. Acquisition of skills and knowledge to manage a future medical practice as a business and to become a more effective medical practitioner. Preparation to effectively participate in healthcare-focused entrepreneurial ventures. Transfer M.D. credit hours and reduce the time required to complete an MBA degree. Why an MBA from Scheller College The MBA program is nationally ranked and globally recognized. Partnership with Morehouse School of Medicine to complete your MBA while enrolled in the M.D. program, without interrupting your career later. Focus on applied learning prepares you to compete effectively in the technology-enabled healthcare ecosystem of the future. Location in Tech Square offers an unparalleled opportunity to learn in one of the nation’s premier high-tech business centers, and interact with Fortune 500 innovation centers and successful entrepreneurs. Eligibility Students who are enrolled in the M.D. program at Morehouse School of Medicine are eligible to apply to the Scheller College of Business Full-time MBA program and should plan to apply prior to the end of their third year in the M.D. program. Morehouse School of Medicine students must apply to and be accepted by the Scheller College MBA Admissions Office. Program Structure M.D./MBA students take 39 credit hours at Scheller College and transfer 15 credits of specific courses from the M.D. program at Morehouse School of Medicine to complete the 54 credit hour MBA curriculum at Scheller. With a higher course load per semester than those who pursue a single degree, students can complete both the M.D. and the MBA degrees in five years. During the first three years, students will take M.D. courses at Morehouse School of Medicine. During the fourth year, students will take 39 credit hours of MBA courses at Scheller College. Sequence of M.D./MBA Courses and Credits Earned at Scheller Semester Courses Credits Earned at Scheller Years 1-3 M.D. program courses only at Morehouse School of Medicine 0 Year 4 Fall semester MBA core courses MGT 6510 Leadership Development (evening section)* 15 1.5 16.5 Year 4 Spring semester MBA core courses MBA electives 4.5 12 16.5 Year 4, Summer semester MBA electives (evening sections) 6 Year 5 M.D. program courses at Morehouse School of Medicine and the option to complete MBA requirements at Scheller if needed TOTAL 39 Credits * Students can choose to take MGT 6510 in the spring semester. Application & Admissions Morehouse School of Medicine students must apply to and be accepted by the Scheller College MBA Admissions Office. MSM M.D. students can apply by any of the Full-time MBA deadlines. However, applying in round one or round two maximizes an applicant's consideration for merit-based scholarships. Admission to the MBA program is competitive and will depend on academic background, career goals, fit with the MBA program, test scores, application essays, and leadership potential. View Georiga Tech Full-time MBA class profile and admission statistics for the current class. In addition to submitting the standard online MBA application, the MBA admission process will include an in-person interview. MSM M.D. students may submit MCAT scores (in lieu of GMAT/GRE scores) for admission. M.D./MBA Special Application Instructions: When starting the application, select “Business Administration (Full-time MBA) under Program Selection. Within the MBA Supplemental Dual Degree section, select “Yes” as a dual degree applicant, and select Morehouse College and M.D. in the appropriate dropdown choices. In the Academic History section, be sure to select Morehouse School of Medicine and Doctor of Medicine. In the unofficial GMAT section of the application, please input your MCAT scores. Full-time MBA application requirements and deadlines Tuition & Financing Tuition MSM M.D./MBA students will be enrolled at Georgia Tech during their fourth year and will pay the applicable Full-time MBA tuition and fees to Georgia Tech for that academic year. The cost includes 12+ credit hours per semester for the academic year. The academic year includes Fall and Spring semesters. During the Summer semester, students will pay the Full-time MBA per credit hour rate for the remaining six credits. Please contact the Scheller College Full-time MBA admissions department for current fees per credit hour. During the first three years of the M.D. program, students will be enrolled at Morehouse School of Medicine and will not be enrolled at Scheller College. Financing Georgia Tech Scheller College of Business offers a variety of funding opportunities for the MBA program. Submitting the official MBA application by the Full-time MBA round one or round two deadlines maximizes an applicant's chances for consideration of merit-based scholarships. Full-time MBA tuition and financing Learn more To learn more about the M.D./MBA program, or if you have any questions, contact us online or call us at 404.894.8722. Take action Contact UsApply Now Scheller College of Business Home Why Scheller? Overview & History Business at Tech Georgia Tech Community Career and Recruiter Services Giving to the College Alumni Network Visit Campus Tech Square and Atlanta Programs MBA Undergraduate PhD Interdisciplinary M.S. Executive Education Lean Six Sigma Certification Custom Programs Academics Accounting Finance Information Technology Management Law & Ethics Marketing Operations Management Organizational Behavior Strategy & Innovation Student Certificates Academic Speaker Series Current Faculty Opportunities Centers & Initiatives Business Analytics Center Cecil B. Day Program for Business Ethics Center for International Business Education and Research Financial Analysis Lab Institute for Leadership and Social Impact Program for Engineering Entrepreneurship Ray C. Anderson Center for Sustainable Business Steven A. Denning Technology & Management Program TI:GER® and CDL-Atlanta News & Events Scheller News Event Calendar The Intersection Podcast Media Inquiry Marketing Innovation Conference @ Scheller LinkedIn Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube Flickr Georgia Institute of Technology Scheller College of Business 800 W. Peachtree St. NW Atlanta, GA 30308 404.894.2600 © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology Intranet Emergency Information Contact the College Privacy & Legal Notice Accountability Web Accessibility Resources for People with Disabilities Plugins Youtube Usage Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures