Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information You are here Home > Education > Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons (VP&S) is one of the oldest and most celebrated academic medical institutions in the country. Our history reflects a deep commitment to expanding our understanding and mastery of medical science—many of today's medical disciplines can trace their origins back to VP&S. Our faculty and students embrace our shared mission of compassionate care, transformative research, and excellence in education. Consistently ranked among the best medical schools in the nation, VP&S boasts exceptional faculty that represent the highest level of excellence and experience in their fields. Our students learn in an environment that encourages critical thinking with a creative and purpose-driven curriculum. In 2018, VP&S became the first medical school in the country to adopt a financial aid policy that guarantees debt-free graduation for its students, thanks to the Dr. P. Roy and Diana Vagelos endowment fund. With NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital serving as our primary teaching hospital, students gain invaluable experience working with a patient base that reflects the diversity of New York City—experience that prepares them for any challenge they may face as future clinicians and researchers. We are a leading center for basic, translational, and population-based research with a tradition of innovation and discovery that has helped transform modern medicine. VP&S routinely ranks among the institutions with the highest NIH funding and counts many Nobel laureates among its alumni and faculty, including three current faculty members. As part of Columbia University Irving Medical Center, we're proud to play an active role in our community here in Washington Heights, across NYC, and worldwide. Through our many outreach programs, clinics, and global health efforts, our students and faculty are helping to address health disparities and provide care for underserved communities. Explore Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicans and Surgeons MD Program Choose a one-size-fits-you experience with research endeavors, university-wide electives, and the P&S Club: the broadest student activities organization for the arts, athletics, and community outreach in American medical education. Learn More About Program Learn More About Program Research Research Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Residencies, Fellowships, and Training Departments and Centers Departments and Centers Administrative Residencies and Fellowships Administrative Residencies and Fellowships Continuing Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Graduate School of Arts and Sciences We offer a range of nationally top-ranked PhD Programs. Regardless of program affiliation, students have access to our more than 250 training faculty when selecting their research direction, ensuring that each student receives optimal training and research experience. Learn More About GSAS Learn More About GSAS Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top