Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Information For Current Students Faculty Search BC.edu Links Menu Main Nav Back Back Close About Overview Dean's Message Why the Morrissey College? Contact Open Positions Visit Us Related Links Boston College Mission Office for Institutional Diversity Core Curriculum Majors and Minors BC Veterans Undergraduate Overview The Liberal Arts Advantage Core Curriculum Core Requirements & Courses Jesuit Philosophy The History of Core Renewal Renewed Core Course Goals Complex Problems & Enduring Questions Reflection Sessions CP&EQ Call for Proposals Founding Documents Assessment and Governance Faculty Resources Contacts Core Fellows Majors Minors Cornerstone Seminar Programs The Academic Advising Center Degree Requirements The Advising Process Major & Minor Requirements Pre-Health Program Academic Preparation Exploring Health Professions Preparing for Health Professions Graduate School Undergraduate Fellows Academic Policies Contact Related Links Find Your Program Campus Life Research Opportunities Undergraduate Admission Internship Approval Graduate Overview Admission Financial Support Admitted Students Academic Programs Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Conference Reimbursement Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Contact Giving Related Links Graduate Student Life Policies & Procedures Graduate Student Association Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund Faculty & Research Departments Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Morrissey College Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Current Students Faculty BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Home Graduate Current Graduate Students Emergency Fund Application Current Graduate Students New Hire Information Registration & Forms Policies and Procedures Research Funding Thesis Checklist Dissertation Guidelines and Checklist Commencement The Versatile Ph.D. Emergency Fund Application Graduate Student Emergency Relief Fund In the midst of the current public health crisis, we know that graduate students may be experiencing serious financial hardships. The Morrissey College has established an Emergency Relief Fund intended to provide support to students experiencing an emergency situation that creates a temporary financial hardship caused by the current pandemic. When possible, students must have experienced documented extraordinary expenses. Priority will be given to those students who have exhausted all other means of financial support. The funds are limited and not intended to provide ongoing relief for recurring expenses. Emergency funding will be provided in the form of a one-time grant and will not need to be repaid. Students should be aware that emergency funding may create a taxable event that could require reporting to the IRS by the university or recipient of the funds, and may affect financial aid eligibility. The size of the grants will vary according to the needs of each student and will not typically exceed $1000. To apply for a grant, please submit the linked Student Emergency Fund Application along with whatever supporting documentation is reasonably available. The Morrissey College Graduate Student Emergency Fund Committee, made up of administrators and faculty members, has been formed to review applications. Students should expect to hear about the status of their application within 5 business days, depending on the volume of applications. There are many factors that will weigh into application decisions including, but not limited to (1) volume of requests at time of application; (2) urgency and nature of request; (3) level of connection between the request and the student’s academic needs; and (4) other resources or support available to the student. Applications will be accepted until all of the funds have been disbursed. The following is a list of eligible expenses to be covered by the Morrissey College Graduate Student COVID-19 Emergency Fund: Unexpected medical, mental health or dental costs not covered by insurance. Temporary assistance with food insecurity. Temporary housing assistance caused by COVID-19 which could include additional rent, security deposit, short-term hotel costs incurred to relocate, quarantine or isolate, for personal safety, etc. Costs of additional equipment, software or services to complete educational requirements via remote learning. Unplanned travel expenses to receive medical care, self-quarantine or isolate. Examples could include airfare, car rental, bus or train fare, etc. Unplanned or additional childcare or family care costs necessary to complete classwork. Safety-related needs such as change of locks, legal assistance, etc. Other costs incurred due to the COVID-19 pandemic will be considered by the committee. The following expenses will not be covered by this fund: Credit card debts. Penalties, fines, parking or other tickets. Non-essential expenses. Expenses due to a lack of planning or overspending. Expenses included in the standard cost of attendance Apply Back To Top Back To Top Graduate School of the Morrissey College of Arts and Sciences Gasson Hall 108 617-552-3265 gsasinfo@bc.edu About Undergraduate Graduate Faculty & Research Departments Contact Departments Art, Art History, and Film Biology Chemistry Classical Studies Communication Computer Science Earth and Environmental Sciences Economics Engineering English German Studies History Mathematics Music Philosophy Physics Political Science Psychology Romance Languages and Literatures Slavic & Eastern Languages and Literatures Sociology Theatre Theology Apply Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College