Skip to main content Search form Search Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers Contact Give About Search Menu Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Celebrating the Centennial Our Work to Address COVID-19 Columbia Public Health Magazine Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Master of Public Health Degree Programs Certificate Program Core Curriculum Search You are here Home Public Health Now Topics Public Health Education Public Health Education The Mailman School is a leader in innovative public health curricula. Pioneering a redesign to reflect the complexities of careers and emerging research, our MPH core transcends disciplines, sectors, and approaches to improving public health. Featured Video <a href="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AY5RteCE-fA?rel=0&amp;wmode=opaque&amp;autohide=1">Embedded video</a> Faculty in Public Health Education Angela Aidala Associate Research Scientist Sociomedical Sciences Andrew Rundle Professor Epidemiology Burton Edelstein Professor Emeritus Dental Medicine (Pediatric Dentistry) and Health Policy and Management at the Columbia University Medical Center Codruta Chiuzan Assistant Professor Biostatistics at the Columbia University Medical Center Diana Hernández Associate Professor Sociomedical Sciences David Bell Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Ezra Susser Professor Epidemiology and Psychiatry Guohua Li Professor Epidemiology Jasmine McDonald Assistant Professor Epidemiology Katharina Janus Adjunct Associate Professor Health Policy and Management Katherine Keyes Professor Epidemiology Linda Fried Dean of the Mailman School of Public Health and DeLamar Professor of Public Health Practice, Professor Epidemiology and Medicine Linda Cushman Professor Population and Family Health at the Columbia University Medical Center Lisa Rosen-Metsch Professor Sociomedical Sciences Lynn Tepper Clinical Professor Behavioral Science (In Sociomedical Sciences and Dentistry) Luisa Borrell Adjunct Professor Epidemiology Mary Ann Chiasson Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Medicine) Melanie Gold Professor Population and Family Health and Pediatrics at the Columbia University Medical Center Melissa Begg Dean, Columbia School of Social Work, and Professor, Social Work and Biostatistics Mary Northridge Professor Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Dental Medicine) Marita Murrman Professor in Sociomedical Sciences at CUIMC Sociomedical Sciences Matthew Perzanowski Associate Professor Environmental Health Sciences Mary Beth Terry Professor Epidemiology (In Environmental Health Sciences) Norman Kleiman Assistant Professor Environmental Health Sciences at the Columbia University Medical Center Parisa Tehranifar Associate Professor Epidemiology at the Columbia University Medical Center Ruth Finkelstein Richard Parker Professor Emeritus Sociomedical Sciences and Anthropology, Special Research Scientist and Special Lecturer in Sociomedical Sciences Rita Kukafka Professor Sociomedical Sciences and Biomedical Informatics at the Columbia University Medical Center Robert Klitzman Professor Psychiatry (in Sociomedical Sciences) at the Columbia University Medical Center Renata Schiavo Senior Lecturer Sociomedical Sciences Rachel Moresky Associate Professor Heilbrunn Population and Family Health Theodorus Sandfort Professor of Clinical Sociomedical Sciences (in Psychiatry) Therese McGinn Professor Emerita Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health Vegard Skirbekk Professor Population and Family Health (In the Columbia Aging Center) George Musa Assistant Professor of Clinical Epidemiology (in Psychiatry) Latanya Mapp Frett Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Daniel Giovenco Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Peter Taback Adjunct Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Nina Schwalbe Adjunct Assistant Professor Population and Family Health Sandra Albrecht Assistant Professor Epidemiology Carole Hutchinson Adjunct Assistant Professor Sociomedical Sciences Rebecca Sale Associate Health Policy and Management News & Features Commencement Ceremony Celebrates Class of 2022 More than 700 members of the Class of 2022 came together for the first in-person Columbia Mailman Class Day Commencement in three years. They were joined by faculty, staff, family, and friends who cheered the graduating class at the Armory building. (Watch a video of the ceremony below. A University-Community Partnership Established at the Height of COVID Stands the Test of Time What began as a complimentary five-week seminar series on race and health disparities during the height of the pandemic and racial justice protests has become the Learning, Evaluation, and Assessing Resources and Needs in Informational Technology (L.E.A.R.N.I.T.) program, led by a grou New Grad School Rankings: VP&S, Nursing, and Mailman in Top Spots See All Just Published Abu-Odeh, D., Martos, A., & Sheffer, C. (2016). Teaching Population Health Management to Medical Students Through the Community Health Assessment. Education for Primary Care. View abstract. Colgrove, J. (2016). Vaccine Refusal Revisited - The Limits of Public Health Persuasion and Coercion. New England Journal of Medicine. View abstract. Aycinena, A.C., Jennings, K.A., Gaffney, A.O., ... Hershman, D., Greenlee, H. (2016). Cocinar Para Su Salud! Development of a Culturally Based Nutrition Education Curriculum for Hispanic Breast Cancer Survivors Using a Theory-Driven Procedural Model. Health Education Behavior. View abstract. Ethan, D., Basch, C.H., Hillyer, G.C., Berdnik, A., Huynh, M. (2016). An Analysis of Weight Loss Articles and Advertisements in Mainstream Women's Health and Fitness Magazines. Health Promotion Perspective. View abstract. Related Centers & Programs Lerner Center for Public Health Promotion Conducts research, education, and service to improve health promotion and communication practices. Harlem Health Promotion Center A collaboration of community and academic stakeholders to improve the health and well-being of the Harlem community. 2x2 Project Aims to inform the health conversation through timely and effective communication of emerging public health science. ICAP at Columbia ICAP has worked since 2004 with one central goal: to improve the health of families and communities. National Center for Children in Poverty Dedicated to promoting the economic security, health, and well-being of America’s low-income families and children. Food, Physical Activity, and Wellness Lab Improving Health Outcomes for Cancer Survivors The Sexual Health Initiative to Foster Transformation SHIFT at Columbia examines the factors that shape sexual health and sexual violence for undergraduates. episummer@columbia episummer@columbia offers condensed summer courses on a wide range of topics for anyone interested in public health. SMS Doctoral Programs Innovative training at the intersection of social and behavioral science and public health Upcoming Events Wednesday 1 June episummer@columbia Friday 3 June Release Webinar for the National Academy of Medicine's Global Roadmap for Health Longevity Friday 3 June COVID-19: From Causes to Consequences Hosted by The Columbia Connection Monday 6 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Tuesday 7 June New Resources and Creative Strategies for Recruiting Candidates for Health Departments Tuesday 7 June Google Earth Engine Boot Camp Methods for Using Satellite and Geospatial Data for Environmental Exposure Science Thursday 9 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Friday 10 June Creating a Synthetic Life Course Cohort for Research on Alzheimer's Disease Neuroepidemiology Seminar Friday 10 June PI Crash Course Skills for Future or New Lab Leaders Columnbia Mailman Connect with Us Public Health Now News Events Publications Topics Student Voices Academics Departments Degrees Course Directory Calendar Policy & Procedures Office of Education Research Featured Research Global Health Centers Programs Grants & Awards Corporate Partnerships People Our Faculty Current Students Friends and Supporters Partners Alumni Become a Student Meet Our Faculty Life & Community Degree Finder How to Apply Career Services More Information Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health | 722 West 168th St. NY, NY 10032 Site Map Privacy Columbia University Irving Medical Center Copyright © Columbia University 2019 Information For Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Employers