Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Honors & Awards > BC again a top producer of student Fulbrights BC again a top producer of student Fulbright award winners Boston College continues to be among the nation’s top producers of student Fulbright award winners, according to the 2021-22 report by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Sponsored by the Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs to support academic exchanges between the United States and more than 150 countries around the world, the Fulbright U.S. Student Program provides grants to college graduates, graduate students, and early-career professionals for individually designed study or research programs and English teaching assistantships abroad. Nearly 600 U.S. colleges actively participate in the Fulbright Program. BC was ranked 15th among doctoral institutions in the latest survey; 14 BC students were offered Fulbrights during 2021-2022, out of 65 applicants to the program. Brown was first among doctoral institutions, with 29 Fulbright awards offered. Other colleges and universities included Georgetown, Harvard, and Notre Dame (26 apiece); Princeton (22); Columbia, Stanford, and Yale (21 apiece); Northwestern (17); NYU (16); MIT (13); BU and Tufts (11 apiece); and University of California-Berkeley (10). A 2020 Chronicle of Higher Education study found that BC was one of 16 doctoral institutions in the U.S. to have made the list of top Fulbright-producing colleges and universities each of the previous 10 years. University Communications | March 2022 Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College