Powercat pause chevron double-chevron play chat-purple news-purple home list-purple computer window with a question mark close facebook linkedin menu search twitter youtube apply-purple apply-white chat-white request-purple request-white Jump to HeaderJump to Main ContentJump to Footer Kansas State University Connect Canvas OrgCentral Navigate KSIS HRIS Webmail Sign in Browse A-Z Undergraduate Admission - Manhattan Search Search International undergraduate admissions K-State home Admissions Undergraduate Manhattan Apply International International At K-State we value diversity and welcome international students. Wherever you’re from, you’ll feel right at home in Manhattan. Apply now For purposes of admission, international applicants are defined as all persons who are not citizens or permanent residents of the United States. Submit your application for admission https://apply.k-state.edu/ Y purple medium-basic Submit your application for admission Common App Kansas State University is also a member of the Common App. If you prefer, Sign in to Common App and add Kansas State University to My Colleges. Looking for Graduate Admissions? Interested in pursuing a Master's or Ph.D through K-State Graduate School? Please visit the Graduate School website. International Graduate Admissions https://www.k-state.edu/grad/admissions/application-process/international/ Y purple medium-basic International Graduate Admissions Let us answer your questions Looking for a friendly face with all the answers? Schedule a virtual visit or a one-on-one meeting with your admissions representative. Tour K-State Virtually Schedule a one-on-one meeting Welcome to K-State 2,000+ international students, scholars and faculty More than 100 countries represented on campus 250+ undergraduate majors and programs K-State earns a five star rating in the QS Stars According to QS Stars, or Quacquarelli Symonds, world rating analysis universities that display exceptional performance and quality standards are awarded five star rating. QS awarded K-State five out of five stars overall and in each category after reviewing all of our evidence. Find your place The adventure of a lifetime awaits. All we need is you. International Student and Scholar ServicesProvides essential immigration services for students and scholars. The center welcome campus community in exploration of other cultures and celebrations. International student groupsChoose from over 400 student groups that call the Kansas State University campus home. Office of Recruitment and Admissions 119 Anderson Hall 919 Mid-Campus Dr. North, Manhattan, KS 66506-0121 785-532-1521 | 785-532-6393 fax | apply@k-state.edu Contact Us Emergency Statements and Disclosures Accessibility KBOR Free Expression Statement © Kansas State University Updated Updated: 2/21/22