Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Skip to primary site search Google Tag Manager Population Studies and Training Center Research Themes Project Categories Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Undergraduates Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Research Themes Children, Families, and Health Social Foundations of Health Disparities Migration and Urbanization Population, Development, and Environment Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Social Inequalities Funding Progressivity, COVID-19, and Inequality of School Resources by Race and SES How Changing Neighborhood and School Contexts Shape Mental Health and Educational Attainment from Childhood to Early Adulthood Project Categories Rhode Island Domestic International Research to Policy Spatial Cite and Send Selected Faculty Publications News Training and Education Postdoctoral Research Associates NICHD Postdoctoral Fellows Predoctoral Trainees NICHD Predoctoral Fellows Past NICHD Fellows Admission and Requirements Funding Opportunities Workshops Predoctoral Training Program Application 2021-22 Undergraduates Migration Studies Certificate PSTC Undergraduate Fellows Program Alumni Events PSTC Colloquia Speaker Series Workshops and Professionalization Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Working Group in Anthropology and Population (WGAP) Migration Studies Initiative Special Events People Faculty Postdoctoral Research Associates Predoctoral Trainees Staff Undergraduate Fellows Programs and Initiatives Spatial Structures in the Social Sciences (S4) Migration Studies Initiative About Leadership Sidney Goldstein, PSTC Founder Remembering Sidney Goldstein Affiliation Services and Facilities Employment Opportunities 2022 Postdoctoral Fellowship Manager of Communications and Outreach Postdoctoral Research Associate in Population Studies Summer 2021 Proctorship Program for predocs External Funding Postdoctoral Research Associate in Human Geography and Population Studies Postdoctoral Research Associate in Human Geography and Population Studies The Population Studies and Training Center at Brown University is seeking two Postdoctoral Research Associates in Population Studies with training in population studies and/or human geography to work with Professor Elizabeth Fussell on one of several funded research projects focused on disaster-affected populations. populations. Two projects involve research on disaster-affected populations with her collaborator, Professor Narayan Sastry (University of Michigan). One focuses on the Hurricane Katrina-affected population of New Orleans and the other focuses on Puerto Rico and the effects of the economic crisis and Hurricanes Irma and Maria on migration and population changes. A third study, in collaboration with Jack DeWaard (University of Minnesota) and Katherine Curtis (University of Wisconsin-Madison) involves constructing and analyzing a dataset to study hazard events and migration flows between US counties. Applicants should highlight their preparation for and interest in one or more of these topics in the cover letter.The position is for one year with the possibility of renewal. The Postdoctoral Research Associate will participate in dataset construction and analysis, literature reviews, manuscript production for publication in peer-reviewed journals, and presentations at scientific conferences, with the Population Association of America being a preferred conference. Publications stemming from the designated research projects will be co-authored with Fussell and other co-investigators. The Postdoctoral Research Associate is encouraged to lead one or more of these papers and to publish independent research. The Postdoctoral Research Associate will participate in one or multiple ongoing projects, including an NIH-funded study of the long-term outcomes of the Hurricane Katrina-affected population of New Orleans, a Russell Sage Foundation-funded study of the effects of the 2006 economic crisis and Hurricanes Irma and Maria on the population of Puerto Rico, and an NSF-funded study of county-level hazard events and county-to-county migration flows. Qualifications The preferred candidates will have a PhD in a social science discipline with a specialization in demography, a theoretical and empirical familiarity with the field of migration and the environment , experience in dataset assembly and management, statistical and spatial data analysis, survey methodology, advanced programming in Stata or another statistical package, and excellent writing ability. Special Sworn Status (SSS) with the Census Bureau is a plus, and a successful applicant without this status will be assisted in obtaining it. To be eligible for SSS the candidate must be a U.S. citizen or legal permanent resident. The Research Associateship will start as soon as January 1, 2022. The term of appointment is one year, with the possibility of renewal. In addition to an annual salary of $55,000, the Research Associateship provides office space, computer equipment, health benefits, and a $2,000 annual travel account. Application process: Applications should be submitted by September 15, 2021 to receive full consideration, although applications will be considered until the position is filled. Applicants must have completed the PhD requirement prior to the start of the position. Inquiries may be directed to Prof. Elizabeth Fussell. Application Instructions To apply, please go to https://apply.interfolio.com/90686 and include the following materials: (1) a cover letter that briefly describes your educational preparation, research interests and plans, your interest in a particular project, and a statement of commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, which is integral to the commitment of the Population Studies and Training Center and Brown University. Accordingly, PSTC seeks qualified candidates who can contribute to racial equity, diversity and inclusion in their scholarship and professional activities. Further, the PSTC is keenly interested in diversifying higher education and encourages applications from historically underrepresented groups in higher education. (2) a two-to-three page research statement detailing your substantive and methodological research experience; (3) curriculum vitae; and (4) one or two recent samples of published work (listed as “Other Document” under application documents). In addition, candidates should submit three letters of reference via the online system at the time of the application. Brown University is committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community; as an EEO/AA employer, Brown considers qualified applicants for employment without regard to, and does not discriminate on the basis of, gender, race, color, national origin, sexual orientation, religion, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status. Back to top Explore Brown University Search Brown Show/Hide Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Population Studies and Training Center Population Studies and Training Center Brown University Box 1836 68 Waterman St. Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-2668 Email [email protected] Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U Google+ LinkedIn SnapChat