Skip to main content SearchX Prospective Students Current Students Parents & Family Alumni Veterans Faculty & Staff Academics All Things Academics Colleges & Schools UofM Global - Online Degree Program UofM Lambuth - Jackson, TN Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendar Admissions Undergraduate Graduate UofM Global - Online Law School International Transfer Students Virtual Tour Fees/Tuition Research and Innovation Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers For Industry and Partners Centers and Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Office of Institutional Research Libraries University Libraries Research Resources Special Collections Ask-a-Librarian Athletics Tiger Athletics Tickets Intramurals Campus Rec Make A Gift gotigersgo.com Support UofM Make A Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations News & Events Tiger Zone - Student Events Campus Events Media Room: News & Magazines Review COVID-19 Info & Campus Updates > Search Menu UofM Media Room Publications News Releases Podcasts Events Resources Contact Us Canvas umMail myMemphis Directories Visit Apply Give Contact News Releases Awards News Releases Archive Take Action Music Performance Calendar Upcoming Art Exhibits University Events Contact Us Follow Us Online InstagramFacebooktwitterYoutubeLinkedIn Home UofM Media Room News Releases School of Accountancy Named in Recognition of Transformational Gift from Crews Family University of Memphis Names School of Accountancy in Recognition of Transformational Gift from Crews Family December 2, 2020 MEMPHIS — The University of Memphis’s Board of Trustees unanimously approved the naming of the Crews School of Accountancy in the Fogelman College of Business & Economics in recognition of a $5 million commitment by the Crews Family Foundation. Hilliard Crews, the founder of Shelby Group International and President of the Crews Family Foundation, is a distinguished alumnus of the University (BS ’71) and a committed supporter. He and his wife Harriett previously made a gift to establish the Crews Center for Entrepreneurship, which is also housed in the Fogelman College, in addition to other investments in academics and athletics. “The Crews have long demonstrated a remarkable dedication to the University and to Memphis,” said UofM President M. David Rudd. “This is the largest outright philanthropic gift to academics in the UofM’s history. Gifts like this allow the College and University to provide a margin of excellence for an ever-expanding number of our students and community.” The Crews Family Foundation’s pledge to the Fogelman College of Business will create an endowment to support the mission of College and School of Accountancy. The School of Accountancy has 18 full-time faculty, including two Chairs of Excellence, and offers undergraduate, master’s and doctoral degrees. The School of Accountancy consistently has the largest undergraduate major enrollment in the College and an outstanding alumni network in the accounting profession and beyond. “This generous investment will create a permanent source of funding for the College that will enable us to strategically grow,” said Dr. Damon Fleming, dean of the Fogelman College. “Our plans for the School include creating a new Center for Emerging Technologies in Accounting to serve as a focal point for accounting and analytics-related research, teaching and outreach and expanding our PhD program.” “In thinking about this gift, we wanted to support the leadership and vision of President Rudd and Dean Fleming to provide excellent educational opportunities to students and to build on the University’s outstanding reputation in our own community and beyond,” said Hilliard Crews. “We are excited for the future of the University of Memphis and proud to play a role in its ongoing success.” CONTACT Chuck Gallina | 901.678.1756 | cgallina@memphis.edu Admissions Prospective Students Undergraduate Graduate Law School International Parents Financial Aid Scholarships Tuition & Fee Payment FAQs About UofM Virtual Tour Academics Provost's Office Libraries Transcripts Undergraduate Catalog Graduate Catalog Academic Calendars Course Schedule Graduation Honors College Canvas Athletics gotigersgo.com Ticket Information Intramural Sports Recreation Center Athletic Academic Support Former Tigers Facilities Tiger Scholarship Fund Media Research Division of Research and Innovation For Researchers Centers & Institutes FedEx Institute of Technology Libraries Grants Accounting Environmental Health Office of Institutional Research Support UofM Make a Gift Alumni Association Athletics Development Corporate & Foundation Relations Administrative Support President's Office Academic Affairs Business & Finance Career Opportunities Conference & Event Services Corporate Partnerships University Advancement Government Relations Information Technology Services TigerHelp Media and Marketing Student Academic Success UofM Foundation Follow UofM Online Instagram Facebook twitter Youtube LinkedIn Print Got a Question? Ask TOM Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis Important Notice Last Updated: 3/22/22 The University of Memphis Memphis, TN 38152 Phone: 901.678.2000 The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.