Skip to main content The Magazine of the University of Central Florida | Archives In This Issue Spring 2022 Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Pegasus The Magazine of the University of Central Florida In This Issue Archives Making Waves Thanks to NASA-developed technology, this UCF alum’s company is working to achieve clean water globally. Every day when ecoSPEARS CEO and co-founder Sergie Albino ’03 walks into his office in Altamonte Springs, Florida, he is reminded of his mission, displayed prominently on the wall: “We imagine a world where every human being has access to clean water, clean food and clean air.” What some may consider unattainable, the aerospace engineering alum — who was named among the Orlando Business Journal’s 2021 CEOs of the Year — has a solution to help make that world a reality. Since he started ecoSPEARS in 2017 with exclusively licensed technology from NASA, Albino and his team design and develop sustainable methods to extract and eliminate polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dioxins and other persistent toxins from the environment permanently. Many of them ended up in our soil and waterways because until they were banned in 1979, PCBs were legally used in everyday goods. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), “More than 90% of human exposure to dioxins is through the food supply, mainly meat and dairy products, fish and shellfish. … Dioxins are highly toxic and can cause reproductive and developmental problems, damage the immune system, interfere with hormones and also cause cancer.” WHO predicts that by 2025, half of the world’s population will be living in water-stressed areas. As a UCF student, Albino interned at Kennedy Space Center (KSC), where he later ended up as a payload hardware engineer. While working there and pursuing his MBA from Rollins College, he met KSC environmental engineer Jackie Quinn and UCF alumni Phil Maloney ’07 ’13PhD and Robert DeVor ’03 ’08PhD, who eventually invented the SPEARS (Sorbent Polymer Extraction and Remediation System) technology. “I thought the SPEARS technology had a lot of legs,” Albino says. “[What piqued my interest] was the challenge of … solving a world mission of clean water.” The SPEARS technology uses clusters of plastic spikes filled with ethanol to absorb toxins. The spikes are then pressed into the sediment where they can stay until remediation levels are achieved — even if that takes years — before they are removed, and the harmful toxins are responsibly destroyed on-site using UV or chemical destruction of the contamination. “We aren’t choosing options that would further create contamination,” Albino says. “We would never want to trade off clean water or clean soil for clean air. That’s not the right path.” The company, which has 12 full-time employees and six interns — many of whom are Knights — has run pilot tests in California, Hawaii, Guam, Washington and Sweden. While the SPEARS technology is specific to sediment remediation in bodies of water, the company has since expanded its efforts to soil washing remediation (ecoTERRA) as well as industrial wastewater and groundwater remediation (ecoCUBE). “I would love to see this company grow to be a tool for change in the world when it comes to health and public safety, the environment, and sustainability,” Albino says. Who Sergie Albino ’03 The Pitch Green and sustainable technology for a cleaner environment Inspiration NASA-developed technology, co-invented by UCF alumni Phil Maloney ’07 ’13PhD and Robert DeVor ’03 ’08PhD Backers EIA Social Enterprise Fund, Kirenaga Partners and Northwestern University Where you can find it ecospears.com By Jenna Marina Lee Spring 2022 Share this content on Facebook Tweet this content Related Stories Stylish and Sustainable Quite a Catch Deep Dive More from the Spring 2022 Issue More Than Words UCF’s Communication Disorders Clinic provides essential training for its graduate students and critical services to the local community. Elevating Expression Shawn Welcome ’17 reflects on the power of poetry in a community as he begins his term as Orlando’s poet laureate. We’re Here to End This These UCF researchers shine a light on what it takes to end domestic violence, and they have a question for everyone: Who’s willing to help break the cycle? Why I Believe in Medical City After graduating from UCF’s first class of medical school graduates, Elona Rrapo Kaso ’13MD ﻿has returned to Lake Nona to work and help train students at the Orlando VA Medical Center. She shares what it’s like to see the development of Medical City and UCF’s College of Medicine. Not Your Average Students Education is a lifelong endeavor, as evidenced by this comparison of two of UCF’s oldest and youngest students. Ingenuity at Work Developments from UCF faculty advance their fields while making societal impacts. On Campus — Spring 2022 From new winter celebrations to new campus murals and learning technology, there’s plenty of ways Knights are staying engaged at UCF. Together Again For the first time since the start of the pandemic, UCF’s Gather Luncheon returned to campus to promote community building and healthy eating. Relationship Goals If you aren’t taking these six actions, you should be, according to experts at UCF’s Marriage and Family Research Institute. A Generational Effort For two decades, the UCF Business Incubation Program has supported the growth of hundreds of local small businesses to diversify the Central Florida economy. Now, the program is positioning itself for a new generation of success. Quite a Catch UCF researchers receive a new, custom boat to continue studying sea turtles. Powering Potential UCF’s new Microgrid Control Lab simulates a modern grid control room and will serve as a hands-on learning and research facility. Artistic Celebration Flying Horse Editions celebrates 30 years of supporting artistic works and research with an exhibit featured in UCF’s Art Gallery. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Find us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Pegasus Magazine Suggest a Story Tell Us What You Think Update Your Address © University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816