Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Equity Focus Diversity at the UW Menu Explore diversity Learning About Difference Making Change, Transforming Lives World Changing Research University Diversity Officer Office of Minority Affairs & Diversity Graduate School/Office of Graduate Student Equity and Excellence (GSEE) UW Race & Equity Initiative Resources Administrators Alumni & community Current students Faculty & staff Future students Native Life & Tribal Relations Schools & colleges Diversity at UW Bothell Diversity at UW Tacoma Support diversity Home Diversity at the UW Equity Focus Equity Focus Home Equity Focus Archives Advancing the values of diversity, equity and inclusion is core to our mission at the University of Washington. Equity Focus amplifies a sampling of the stories, news and events that highlight this great work happening across our tri-campus community. Feature Stories Sherri Berdine named UW’s Director of Tribal Relations Sherri Berdine has been named Director of Tribal Relations at the University of Washington. Her position manages the government-to-government relationships between the UW and the American Indian tribes throughout Washington and the Pacific Northwest. UW News How Presidents Can Best Promote Diversity, Equity and Inclusion UW Tacoma Chancellor Edwards Lange shares her experience as a college president and some tips she learned about the role of a president in advancing DEI on campus Inside Higher Ed For the missing and murdered Athlete and activist Rosalie Fish runs to raise awareness of violence against Indigenous women. UW Magazine Can't Hold Him Back From radical youth to senior statesman, Larry Gossett is an activist for us all. The 2021 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus award recognizes his lifetime of service. UW Magazine Lincoln Institute of Land Policy honors UW College of Built Environments faculty The Nehemiah Studio, a UW class on mitigating gentrification in Seattle’s Central District designed by Rachel Berney, Donald King and Al Levine with support from College of Built Environments Dean Renée Cheng, has been honored by the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy. UW News UW School of Public Health’s journey toward becoming an anti-racist school of public health Read highlights about the work of the SPH EDI team and School-wide anti-racism efforts. For example, one of the first steps they have taken on their larger EDI roadmap includes implementing a series of School-wide anti-racism trainings. UW Magazine READ MORE IN THE ARCHIVES In the news Developer demolishing Keiro gives short shrift to area’s history. — Northwest Asian Weekly How, as a Black man on the sidelines, I found grace at an Aryan Nations rally — Seattle Times Change is possible, but we must keep striving — President Cauce Blog Joy Williamson-Lott honored for book on civil rights, higher education in South during Jim Crow era — UW News Washington aims to make college more affordable. After affirmative-action vote, who will benefit? — Seattle Times Events calendar Follow @VPOMAD Connect with University Diversity Officer Rickey Hall on Twitter. @VPOMAD It was a treat to spend the day with Larry Gossett, a living legend. ⁦⁦@UWalum⁩ Paul Rucker and I were able to officially present Larry with the Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus award that was granted in 2021. https://t.co/ckLGNhxpa1 @VPOMAD The Undocu Graduation was inspirational. Special thanks to ⁦@UWArtSci⁩ AES Dr. Carolyn Pinedo Turnovsky for her motivational remarks. ⁦@UW_ECC⁩ https://t.co/kNtWkoLSKO @VPOMAD Thank you @uwomadmor Student Ambassadors for all you do to assist in the recruitment of talented students. Congratulations to the graduating seniors! https://t.co/8Q78uBqS4h More CONTACT Leilani Lewis, associate director for Diversity Communications & Outreach, lanil@uw.edu Story pitches or ideas may also be submitted through this form. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA