Skip to content Clemson University Clemson University Search Menu Close Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG. Apply Giving News Resources for Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Clemson University Academics Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson Forward Arrow Back Arrow Back About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search Resources for Current Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Forward Arrow Academics Visit the College Forward Arrow Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Back Arrow Back Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students Forward Arrow Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Back Arrow Back Academic Advising Back Arrow Back Departments Forward Arrow Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Back Arrow Back Outreach About Forward Arrow About Administration Department Chairs College Directory Forward Arrow College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach Back Arrow Back College Boards Honors and Awards New Building Forward Arrow New Building About the New Building Building News Back Arrow Back Back Arrow Back Resources Forward Arrow Resources Alumni Forward Arrow Alumni Exchange Monthly Back Arrow Back Recruiters Faculty and Staff Back Arrow Back Apply Giving News Sikes Hall Icon Main Menu Forward Arrow Icon Back Arrow Icon Back Clemson University Academics Academics Home Employment Opportunities Apply for Admission Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Graduate School Academic Resources Academic Calendar Registrar Division of Undergraduate Studies Center for Career and Professional Development Academic Success Center GRAD 360° Libraries Outside the Classroom PEER/WISE Call Me MISTER® Creative Inquiry and Undergraduate Research Cooperative Education University Professional Internship and Co-op Program (UPIC) Study Abroad Admissions Admissions Home Schedule a Tour Apply for Admission Applying to Clemson First-Year Undergraduate Transfer Undergraduate International Undergraduate Graduate Students Academic Opportunities Majors Graduate Programs Online Graduate Programs Scholar Programs Paths to Graduate School Honors College Experiential Learning Financial Aid Tuition and Fee Calculator Undergraduate Financial Aid Graduate Fellowships and Awards Residency Requirements Campus Life Campus Life Home Club Sports Brooks Center for the Performing Arts Join Your Clemson Family Finding Your Community Living-Learning Communities Student Veterans Multicultural Programs FIRST Army ROTC Air Force ROTC Services On Campus Housing & Dining Campus Recreation Parking and Transportation Student Health Services TigerOne Card Services Clemson Athletics Get Involved Clubs and Organizations Fraternity and Sorority Life Orientation Ambassadors Tiger Media Graduate Student Government Undergraduate Student Government Research Research Home Clemson University Research Foundation (CURF) Division of Research Research Opportunities Student Research at Clemson Creative Inquiry Research Facilities Postdoctoral Affairs Serving South Carolina Through Research School of Health Research Public Service and Agriculture Clemson Experimental Forest Clemson Extension Clemson Research and Education Centers Public Service and Agriculture Research Farm Services Innovation and Economic Development Corporate Partnerships and Strategic Initiatives Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) Clemson University Restoration Institute (CURI) Clemson University Biomedical Engineering Innovation Campus (CUBEInC) Center for Human Genetics Innovation Campus and Technology Park About Clemson About Clemson Home Clemson News Clemson Athletics For Tigers Applying to Clemson Working at Clemson Traditions Military Heritage Things To Do in Clemson Visit Clemson Campus Resources Employment Opportunities Home and Garden Information Center Brand Guidelines CCIT Academic Calendar Training ClemsonForward Campus Leadership Board of Trustees President Academic Affairs and Provost Inclusion and Equity Student Affairs Faculty Senate Staff Senate Search close Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics show submenu for Academics Visit the College show submenu for Visit the College Recruitment Ambassadors Office of Career and Global Engagement Greenville Programs Community for Undergraduate Business Students (CUBS) Current Students show submenu for Current Students Student Organizations Leadership Opportunities Student Advisory Board Major and Course Fee Academic Advising show submenu for Academic Advising Change of Major Policy Departments show submenu for Departments School of Accountancy Department of Economics Department of Financial Management Department of Graphic Communications Department of Management Department of Marketing Clemson MBA Department of Military Leadership Department of Aerospace Studies Research Outreach About show submenu for About Administration Department Chairs College Directory show submenu for College Directory Administration and Support Departments Clemson ROTC Outreach College Boards Honors and Awards New Building show submenu for New Building About the New Building Building News Resources show submenu for Resources Alumni show submenu for Alumni Exchange Monthly Recruiters Faculty and Staff Clemson Home Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Academics Current Students Current: Student Organizations Student Organizations Accounting Student Advisory Board For more information, contact student representative Nick Giaconia. Association for Information Systems (AIS) The Clemson Chapter of the Association for Information Systems aims to encourage student interest in information systems through case studies, presentations, speakers and activities. Read more about the AIS. For more information, contact student representative Mark Trotter. Association for Supply Chain Management (APICS) APICS is the premier professional association for supply chain management. The Clemson student chapter has access to educational programs, networking opportunities and other resources. For more information, contact student representative Jacob Schneider. Association of Latino Professionals for America (ALPFA) The Association of Latino Professionals for America focuses on empowering and developing Latinx people as leaders of character for the nation, in every sector of the global economy. ALPFA offers its members professional leadership development, cross-functional and cross-generational networking, career opportunities and advancement with hundreds of Fortune 1000 corporate partners. For more information, contact faculty advisor Julio Hernandez or student representative Stephanie Rivera. Beta Alpha Psi Beta Alpha Psi is an honorary organization for financial information students and professionals. The primary objective of Beta Alpha Psi is to encourage and give recognition to scholastic and professional excellence in the business information field. This includes promoting the study and practice of accounting, finance and information systems; providing opportunities for self-development, service and association among members and practicing professionals and encouraging a sense of ethical, social and public responsibility. For more information, contact faculty advisor Phebian Davis or student representative Victoria Palen. Beta Gamma Sigma Beta Gamma Sigma is the premier honor society recognizing business excellence. Lifetime members of the Society have earned the right to be considered the "Best in Business." Blue Ridge Consulting Group Blue Ridge Consulting Group is a student-run consulting organization at Clemson University dedicated to training, networking and providing pro-bono advisory services to startups and small businesses. For more information, contact president Jack Lillig. Clemson Business Analytics Club The Clemson Business Analytics Club aims to help students interested in Business Analytics opportunities to grow personally, intellectually, professionally and socially among a support network of students, professors and professionals. This mission will be accomplished through speaker events with industry professionals, workshops in applicable software and networking events. For more information, contact faculty advisor Hongki Kim. Clemson University Investment Banking Club Clemson University Investment Banking Club (CUIBC) exists to accelerate the finance education at Clemson University to appeal to the modern specifications of leading firms in investment banking through education, recruitment, mentorship, alumni and employer connections. For more information, contact Jack Lillig or Gabe Schlicksup. Clemson University Marketing Association (CUMA) The Clemson University Marketing Association is open to all students in the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business; not just marketing majors. It is designed to bring students with common interests together and to provide them with the necessary skills to excel in the marketing industry. This organization affords networking opportunities between students, faculty and industry leaders. Additional resources include course selection/advising, information on internships, informative speakers and much more. For more information, contact faculty advisor Rob Massey or student representative Olivia Robinson. Delta Sigma Pi Professional Business Fraternity (DSP) Delta Sigma Pi is a professional fraternity organized to foster the study of business in universities to encourage scholarship, social activity and the association of students. For almost thirty years, the Kappa Tau chapter at Clemson University has taken the steps to grow professionally as members of Clemson University, as well as future businesspeople. For more information, contact Delta Sigma Pi president Gabe Schlicksup. Economics Club The Economics Club launched in the Spring of 2016 to act as a resource to those interested in economic thinking. Open to all students, the Economics Club hosts events such as industry experts and business speakers, debates, resume and networking workshops, movies and more to promote economic thinking on Clemson's campus. The Club provides opportunities to think about economics in a modern setting and how you may apply the trade to accomplish your academic and career goals. For more information, contact student representative Justin Kearney. Economics Student Advisory Board The Economics Student Advisory Board is made up of sophomore, junior and senior economics majors with a mix of minors and double majors. The new representatives are selected at the end of each academic year through an application process. Each representative has demonstrated that they are a leader within the department and are committed to bettering the college as a whole. The board collaborates with the Economics faculty and staff on various initiatives to better the department as well as the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Student Advisory Board on interdepartmental issues. For more information, contact Student Advisory Board chair Ann Wesley Carter. Finance Club The focus of the Finance Club is to provide interactions between current finance majors and companies looking to hire students for internships and full-time work. The Finance Club hosts the annual Fall Recruiters BBQ in September as well as produces the Resume Book for senior finance majors. In addition to these annual events, the Finance Club hosts periodic information and networking sessions. Past Activities/Presenters: Bank of America, Ford Credit, ScanSource, AXA Advisors When Club meets: Four to six times a semester, announced ahead of time Annual Dues: Announced annually How to Join: Junior/senior finance major only, attend any event For more information, contact faculty advisor John Alexander. Finance Student Advisory Board For more information, contact Student Advisory Board chair Gabe Schlicksup. Financial Planning Association The focus of the Clemson Financial Planning Association is to promote the profession of Financial Planning. The organization does this through monthly outside industry speakers, monthly lunch-and-learn workshops and annual conferences. When Club Meets: 3-4 times a semester, announced ahead of time Annual Dues: $0 (subject to change) How to Join: Attend any meeting and speak to an officer at the end. For more information, contact faculty advisor Josh Harris. Gamma Epsilon Tau (Graphic Communications) Gamma Epsilon Tau (GET) is an honorary/service organization for graphic communication students. Clemson's GET, the Xi chapter, is the 14th chapter of its kind on college campuses around the country. For more information, contact faculty advisor Eric Weisenmiller or student representative Charlotte Higgins. Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA) Student Chapter is dedicated to exploring the world of accountancy and financial services. Through the sponsorship of the Greenville, South Carolina Chapter of the IMA, students are invited to attend a national leadership conference discussing the ideals and philosophies of the Accounting Profession. The IMA is committed to establishing professional relationships, developing student leaders and promoting overall excellence. For more information, contact faculty advisor Robin Radtke or student representative Jacob Edwards. Management Student Advisory Board The Management Student Advisory Board is made up of sophomore, junior and senior management majors with various emphasis areas. The new representatives are selected at the end of each academic year through an application process. Each representative has demonstrated that they are a leader within the department and are committed to bettering the college as a whole. The board collaborates with the Department of Management faculty on various initiatives as well as the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Student Advisory Board on interdepartmental issues. For more information, contact student representative Mikie Harris or email clemsonmgt@clemson.edu. Marketing Student Advisory Board The Marketing Student Advisory Board is made up of sophomore, junior and senior marketing majors. The new representatives are selected at the end of each academic year through an application process. Each representative has demonstrated that they are a leader within the department and are committed to bettering the college as a whole. The board collaborates with the Department of Marketing faculty on various initiatives as well as the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Student Advisory Board on interdepartmental issues. For more information, contact Senior Chair Mary Cate Buchert. Minority Business Student Association (MBSA) The Minority Business Student Association is dedicated to the professional, academic and personal experiences of its members and the recruitment of minority business students into the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business while striving to develop diverse leaders and maximize their career potential in business. Read more about the MBSA. For more information, contact an Advisory Board member: Janae Brown Chase Jackson Jordan Mann Jada McBride Phi Alpha Delta Phi Alpha Delta is a professional law fraternity advancing integrity, compassion and courage through service to the student, the school, the profession and the community. Real Estate Club The Commercial Real Estate Club at Clemson University exists as an undergraduate organization dedicated to the study of commercial real estate, the cultivation of relationships between Clemson real estate students and professionals, and the preparation of undergraduate students for the ever-changing world of commercial real estate. For more information, contact student representative Justin Rose. Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) The Clemson chapter of the SHRM acquaints students with the field of human resource management, keeps students updated on industry developments and provides learning opportunities through interaction with human resource practitioners. The chapter also aims to promote the development of truly professional human resource managers and encourage adherence to the Code of Ethics of the Society for Human Resource Management. For more information, contact student representative Courtney Sciarro. Technological Association of the Graphic Arts (TAGA) The Technological Association of the Graphic Arts (TAGA) is an international organization of academics and industry researchers in the graphic communications field. Each year student chapters from around the world produce a journal showcasing student research in GC applications. The schools compete for recognition of the quality of their journal. The journals are judged by the TAGA Board of Directors on the basis of technical writing, design and print production. Students are involved in all aspects of the journal production—design, print production, writing and editing, and have the opportunity to attend the TAGA Annual Technical Conference. TAGA meets on Fridays at 11:15 in the Godfrey Atrium. For more information, contact faculty advisor Liam O'Hara, Ph.D. Wall Street South Investment Club (WSS) The focus of this organization is to gain hands-on experience in trading securities and managing an investment portfolio. The Wall Street South Club uses a global portfolio simulation which is a comprehensive trading simulation featuring stocks, bonds, mutual funds, options, futures and international stocks. Student members will receive $100,000 of hypothetical money in a brokerage account for the fall and spring semesters to trade and manage. Past Activities/Presenters: Portfolio management simulation (ongoing), trading room sessions (Bloomberg Financial Markets), end of year lunch/celebration and guest speakers (various portfolio managers and analysts, vanguard and Suntrust). When Club meets: 3-4 times a semester, announced ahead of time Annual Dues: $20 annual (subject to change) How to Join: Fall only, junior/senior standing preferred. All business majors welcome. For more information, contact faculty advisor Kerri McMillan or student representative Samuel Morris. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Recruitment Ambassadors The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Recruitment Ambassadors are a group of student volunteers who have been selected and trained by the college to lead one-on-one information sessions with prospective families and represent the college across all University functions. These students invest their time in the Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business because they want to give back to a program that has given so much to them. For more information, contact Recruitment Ambassadors president Carese Brown. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Student Advisory Board The Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Student Advisory Board is composed of students representing each academic department within the college. These representatives are actively engaged in the college and provide a sounding board for student concerns. For more information, contact Student Advisory Board chair Max Marrero. Women in Business Women in Business is open to female and male students in the business school. Its goal is to further women's knowledge on how to succeed as professionals by exposing more undergraduate females to women professionals through networking, workshops and speaker series. For more information, contact Women in Business president Nora Cronin at clemsonwib@gmail.com. Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Copyright © Clemson University Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business | 343 Chandler L. Burns Hall, Clemson, S.C. 29634 864-656-3177 | Email Us | Website Updates intro-arrow Engage With Us Through Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022 Clemson University • Clemson, South Carolina 29634 Clemson University Facebook Instagram Twitter Linkedin Youtube Tiktok Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson