Your Student Success Advocates - University of Houston Skip to main content Restrict my search to Dean of Students Submit Close Student Affairs and Enrollment Services Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Dean of Students Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values & Service Staff Office Information Advocacy & Support Academic Support Student Advocacy Emergency Loans for Unforeseen Emergencies Dean of Students Leadership Council Student Outreach & Support Frequently Asked Questions A Note About Confidentiality Behavior & Conduct Conduct Assessment and Response Team (CART) Managing Disruptive Student Behavior Report an Incident Student Code of Conduct UH Hazing Policy & Report Resources Respondent's Guide Sexual Misconduct Policy University Hearing Board Preparing for Your University Hearing Commuter Student Services Getting to Campus Spaces and Places Resources Frequently Asked Questions Commuter Assistant Program Contact Information Parent & Family Programs Family Weekend 2021 Siblings Day Alumni Information Publications Resources Coog Moms Resources & Policies Alcohol Policy Alcohol Registration Dean's Award Freedom of Expression/Organized Activity Form Student Handbook University Sponsorship Verification Form Campus Program for Minors FERPA Authorization Form Student Fees Advisory Committee Freedom of Expression Voter Registration Dean of Students The Latest Updates on COVID-19 Popular Resources Report an Incident Submissions using this form may not be reviewed outside of normal business hours. If there is an immediate risk to health or safety, please contact the University of Houston Police Department at 713-743-3333. Get Help! When a student encounters a barrier to their success, it is important to know who to turn to; who can help. Student Advocacy is dedicated to helping students find answers and resolutions to their problems. Student Handbook While containing important information about the university, the Handbook is not comprehensive in its listings. Instead, vital information is presented, and when necessary, the Handbook will refer to other publications that provide more detailed information. Parent Guidebook This document serves as your guide to the University of Houston. It contains contact information for several key colleges and departments on campus, descriptions of university services and student opportunities, and advice for the family transition. Primary Services Student Advocacy When a student encounters a barrier to their success, it is important to know who to turn to; who can help. Student Advocacy is dedicated to helping students find answers and resolutions to their problems. Behavior and Conduct Our office works to maintain a civil and orderly academic environment on campus by administering the University of Houston Student Code of Conduct. Student Outreach and Support (SOS) Student Outreach and Support (SOS) provides referred students experiencing complex personal difficulty with a connection to care and support to help them on their path to success and college completion. Commuter Student Services Commuter Student Services’ mission is to provide support services and effective communication to help facilitate commuter students’ success and connection to the UH community. Parent & Family Programs As parents and family members, you are officially part of the University of Houston family. We recognize the critical role parents can play in their student’s educational experience. Campus Programs for Minors All individuals working within certain limited campus programs who will have contact with minors are required to complete the Child Protection Training. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION The University of Houston embraces diversity and fosters an open, welcoming environment where students, faculty and staff of all backgrounds can collaboratively learn, work and serve. UH is fully committed to equity, inclusion, and accountability. To learn more, please visit the University of Houston’s Diversity and Inclusion Statement. It is also the policy of the University of Houston System and its components is to ensure equal opportunity in all its educational programs and activities, and all terms and conditions of employment without regard to age, race, color, disability, religion, national origin, veteran’s status, genetic information, or sex (including pregnancy, sexual orientation, or gender identity) except where such a distinction is required by law. Additionally, the UH System prohibits discrimination in all aspects of employment and educational programs on the basis of gender expression. To learn more visit the UH System’s Official Anti-Discrimination Statement. Title IX Title IX protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Title IX applies to UH programs and activities, as related both to education and employment. UH is committed to providing an environment free from sex discrimination, including sexual harassment and sexual violence. See University of Houston System Administrative Memoranda: 01.D.07 Anti-Discrimination Policy and 01.D.08 Sexual Misconduct Policy (a substantially revised version, as required by federal law, that was approved by the University of Houston System Board of Regents in August 2020). A complaint of discrimination, harassment or sexual misconduct can be filed with our Office of Equal Opportunity Services. Inquiries concerning discrimination or Title IX and the application of university policies may be referred to the Office of Equal Opportunity Services via email at eos@uh.edu, via phone at (713) 743-8835, by submitting the online Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Report Form accessible through the link at the bottom of every UH webpage, or through the Fraud and Non-Compliance Hotline. Reports can also be made in person at 4367 Cougar Village Drive, #526, Houston, TX 77204. The Title IX Coordinator for UH is Ms. Toni Sanchez Benoit, Assistant Vice Chancellor/Vice President, Office of Equal Opportunity Services. Please note that all UH employees, except those who have been designated as confidential resources, are required by state law to report incidents of sexual misconduct to the Office of Equal Opportunity Services. Consumer and Safety Information The University has compiled information on a variety of subjects, including, but not limited to, financial assistance, institutional information, health and safety, graduation and retention rates, athletics and educational loans, which may be helpful to you and your families. View this information on the University’s Consumer Information website. The 2020 Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety Report as required by Title 20 U.S.C. 1092(f), also known as the "Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act". To learn more visit the UHPD's Annual and Security and Fire Safety Report page. This report includes statistical data as well as institutional policies regarding campus safety and security. If you would like a printed copy of this report, please send a request to police@uh.edu and be sure to include your name and mailing address. University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies