Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Giving Ways to Give Your gifts at work Give now Menu Search SMU Giving Resources Ways to give Ways to Give When you give to SMU, you’re helping shape future world changers. There are many ways to make your gift. On This Page Online Phone Check Wiring Matching Gifts Non-Cash Future Gifts Future Gifts with Life Income Phone Call 214-768-3739 to make a credit card gift over the phone. Check Sign, seal, and mail – the old-fashioned way. Mail gifts payable by check to: SMU Office of Development PO Box 750402 Dallas TX 75275-0402 Wiring The fastest, most secure way to send cash. To electronically transfer cash to SMU, contact: Office of Gift Planning 214-768-1911 giftplanning@smu.edu Or fax a letter of gift instruction to 214-768-4922. Matching Gifts Find out if your company will match your gift to double its impact. Non-Cash Securities: Give to SMU and avoid the capital gains tax. Learn more. In-kind: Gifts other than cash – such as art, books, and technology. Learn more. For more information, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 214-768-1911, giftplanning@smu.edu, or visit our Gift Planning website. Future Gifts Bequests: Leave a legacy by remembering education in your will. Retained Life Estate: A future gift of home or farm provides a current benefit. A gift to ensure the University’s future. Retirement Plan Designation: Earn estate and income tax benefits through your gift. For more information, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 214-768-1911, giftplanning@smu.edu, or visit our Gift Planning website. Future Gifts with Life Income Gift Annuity: Receive income from an annuity gift to SMU. Trusts: Earn income and tax benefits for you and your family while you give. For more information, contact the Office of Gift Planning at 214-768-1911, giftplanning@smu.edu, or visit our Gift Planning website. Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Impact Your gifts at work Annual Report Alumni Giving Parent Giving Student Giving Faculty and Staff Giving Recognition Giving Societies SMU Ignited Gifts Donor Spotlights Resources Why support SMU Ways to Give Frequently Asked Questions Contact us Office of Donor Relations Give now Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search