Brown University Quick Exit General Health Physical Health Acne Asthma Breast Exams Bronchitis Colds Concussion Headaches Meningitis Mononucleosis Sleep Seasonal Flu Sun Safety and Skin Cancer Stomach Flu Testicular Self-Exams Travel and Health Yeast Infection Emotional Wellbeing Mindfulness Sleep Stress Self-Care Techniques for Stress Relief Wellness on Campus Social Wellbeing Community, Connection and Coping: Remote Resources Consent Economic Stress Roommate Relationships Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Bacterial Vaginosis Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy Gender Care GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Premature Ejaculation Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Accessing Care Gender Care GYN Visits LGBTQ Health Care at Health Services Men's Health Exams Pregnancy Tests STI Testing Options Resources and Links Nutrition & Eating Concerns Eating Well at Brown Being a Vegetarian Dietary Guidelines Eating Off Meal Plan Meal Plan And Dining Information Supplements Eating Concerns and Body Image Body Image Concerns Eating Concerns Help at Brown Sports Nutrition Relative Energy Deficiency in Sport (RED-S) Sports Nutrition Accessing Care Help at Brown Worried about a Friend Sexual Health Sex 101 SHAG! Erectile Dysfunction Orgasm Premature Ejaculation Sex and Alcohol Sex Toys Sexually Explicit Media Contraception Birth Control Pills Cervical Cap Condoms Depo-Provera Emergency Contraception Fertility Awareness Method Implant Internal Condoms IUD Ortho Evra (The Patch) Ring Spermicides and Lubricants The Recent Election & Contraception Access Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) Reproductive Health Abortion Adoption Amenorrhea Colposcopy Erectile Dysfunction Pregnancy GYN Visits HPV Vaccine Menstruation Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pregnancy Tests Prenatal Care Testicular Self-Exams Yeast Infection Safer Sex Ship n SHAG! Sexual Health and Safer Sex During Covid-19 Abstinence Condoms Dental Dams Internal Condoms Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Pre Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Safer Sex Withdrawal (Pull Out Method) STIs AIDS/HIV Bacterial Vaginosis Chlamydia Colposcopy Gonorrhea Hepatitis B Herpes HPV and Genital Warts HPV Vaccine Molluscum Contagiosum Oral Sex and STIs Pelvic Inflammatory Disease Pubic Lice and Scabies Sexually Transmitted Infections Syphilis Talking with a Partner STI Testing Options Trichomoniasis Urinary Tract Infections Yeast Infection Sexual Assault & Dating Violence Get Help Sexual Assault Response Line SHARE Advocates Dating Violence First Five Days After an Assault Male Survivors Sexual Violence and Assault Sexual Harassment Stalking Help a Friend SHARE Advocates How to Help a Friend Get Involved in Prevention Interrupting the Red Zone: How we keep each other safe Culture of Respect Collective Sexual Assault Peer Education (SAPE) Help Prevent Sexual Assault Unlearning Toxic Masculinity Relationships and Communication Consent Dating Violence Learn More Common Reactions to Sexual Violence and Assault Predatory Drugs Sexual Misconduct and Title IX Sexual Violence: Key Terms Resources and Links Alcohol & Other Drugs Alcohol Alcohol and Your Body Recognizing a Problem Risks and Realities Sex and Alcohol Ways to Cut Down Other Drugs Caffeine Cocaine Ecstasy Energy Drinks GHB Inhalants Ketamine LSD Marijuana Methamphetamine Predatory Drugs Psilocybin (Mushrooms) Rohypnol Tobacco Smokeless Tobacco Smoking Cessation Tobacco Learn More Law and Policy Summary Educational Links Accessing Care Resources at Brown Off Campus Resources Calling EMS How to Help a Friend Quit Smoking How to Talk to a Friend about Drinking or Drug Use Google Tag Manager Tobacco Smoking Cessation Is it worth quitting? If you're having trouble getting motivated, think about these benefits: Within 20 minutes of your last cigarette, blood pressure, pulse and body temperature return to normal. Within 8 hours of your last cigarette, carbon monoxide levels in the blood drop to normal and oxygen levels increase to normal. Within 2 days of quitting, nerve endings start to regrow and your ability to smell and taste improve. Within 3 months, circulation improves and lung function increases up to 30%. How do I get ready to quit? Know why you are quitting. List the benefits that this change will bring you. Post the list to remind yourself. Tell friends who will be supportive. Let them know how they can help. Know your smoking patterns and routine and make changes as needed. Recruit a friend to quit at the same time. Use the resources and links listed at the end of this page for support. Get rid of any tobacco products in your room or apartment. Plan regular exercise. Have low calorie snacks available. Collect the money you save and treat yourself to something. What are the withdrawal symptoms? Tobacco craving lasts a maximum of 3 to 5 minutes. Irritability, anxiety, restlessness, insomnia, and difficulty concentrating are common. Increased appetite: Weight gain is 5 to 10 pounds on average. The health benefits for quitting far outweigh concerns about gaining weight. Fatigue and dizziness may occur as well. Symptoms are most intense during the first 3 to 4 days. Within 20 days, the average number of symptoms drops to just 1. What about those first few weeks? Here are some things to keep in mind that will make quitting easier: Don't quit everything all at once. Focus on smoking. If you try to stop drinking coffee, change your diet and quit smoking at the same time, it will be much harder to be successful. Focus on the present. Deal with one urge at a time instead of anticipating more cravings Drink plenty of water. It will flush the nicotine out of your system and help you feel better. Don't drink alcohol for 3 weeks. Because it affects your judgment, you're more likely to smoke without thinking about it. Get plenty of sleep. You'll feel better and can keep up the motivation to stay quit. Take warm showers to relieve tension. I'm worried about gaining weight. What can I do? Fear of weight gain prevents many people from quitting smoking. Nicotine suppresses normal appetite signals, but you can re-learn how to eat. Learn to "listen" to your body's signals of true hunger and fullness: Try not to go longer than 2 to 4 hours without a meal or snack. This prevents you from getting too hungry. Throughout the day, eat smaller, more frequent meals and snacks. Eating breakfast is critical to stabilize brain chemistry and prevent late-day carbohydrate cravings. Respond to your cravings if you have them, but with small portions. Restricting food triggers binges and causes guilt. Don't put foods in "good/bad" categories. Emphasize unprocessed, whole foods, like whole grains and fresh fruit. These foods will keep your blood sugar stable and help your mood, too. Specific chemicals in ex-smokers' brains cause cravings for fats. Include a little fat or healthy oils in your meals. Your body chemistry needs these foods, and they will keep you from feeling hungry again soon. Cravings gradually disappear as eating patterns normalize. Regular, moderate exercise is very helpful in this process. What if I slip up? It's normal for some people to slip or relapse, so don't assume that it means you can't succeed. These questions can help you learn from a slip. Were you well prepared to quit? What happened? In what situation did you begin to use tobacco again? What people were with you? What could you have done to avoid that cigarette or chewing tobacco? How can you deal with stress without tobacco? Reasons to try to quit again You can prevent damaging health effects such as shortness of breath decreased stamina and fatigue cold hands and feet colds, flu, asthma and bronchitis tooth and gum disease skin wrinkling and aging lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Damaging lung effects are reversible after you quit. Remember: every attempt you make improves your chances of quitting and staying quit! What are the different methods for quitting? Cold Turkey: Stop smoking all at once. Clock Method: Increase the amount of time between each cigarette or chew. Slow withdrawal method: Taper/decrease the number of cigarettes smoked each day and/or change brands to gradually lower nicotine varieties. Behavior modification: This can be provided in a group or through the use of self-help booklets. Nicotine replacement methods: Use the nicotine patch or gum to decrease the physiological symptoms of dependency. You still need to address the psychological and behavioral aspects of smoking. These are more expensive methods, and the dose prescribed must be appropriate for the degree of dependence. You must stop smoking immediately when nicotine replacement is started. Combining nicotine replacement with a behavioral program is most effective. Bupropion (Zyban or Wellbutrin) has been shown to be effective in helping people quit smoking. It is usually taken for a few weeks before quitting and then another few weeks after quitting. Bupropion may be more effective than nicotine replacement therapy and combining the two may be even more effective. How do I help a friend quit? Click here for ways to help a friend. Resources www.killthecan.org A resource to quit dip and chewing tobacco. Smokeless Tobacco: Tips on How to Stop A resource for quitting smokeless tobacco from FamilyDoctor.org. University Health Services 401.863-3953 Confidential medical care, including prescriptions for Zyban. Pamphlets on quitting smoking available throughout the building. Located at 13 Brown Street on the corner of Brown and Charlesfield Streets. Related Links Trytostop.org An online, interactive quit site developed by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. The Quit Wizard will help you assess your risk factors, set a quit date and keep you smoke free. Other features include success stories, expert advice and a bulletin board. There are many language options including Spanish, Korean, Chinese, Hatian-Creole, Russian and Portuguese. Web MD’s Smoking Cessation Center This site allows you to set goals, design your own personalized quit plan, find out about nicotine replacement therapy and read up on quitting options. There is a smoking cessation support group and articles on the latest news, like facts about nicotine water. Quitnet Run by Boston University, Quitnet offers quitting guides, personalized quit plans and forums with expert counselors. About BWell: Quick Links About Us Staff Confidential Appointments Sexual Assault Response Line Workshops Peer Education Programs Health Empowerment Tools PHONE NUMBERS 401.863-2794 Health Promotion 401.863-3953 Health Services 401.863-6000 Sexual Assault Response Line 401.863-4111 EMS 401.863-3476 Counseling & Psychological Services 401.863-4111 DPS Make an Appointment Calling EMS If you are wondering if you should call EMS, you should call EMS. If you are still wondering, click here. Talking to a Friend About Drinking or Drug Use It's not easy to know what to say when you're worried about a friend's drug or alcohol use. Click here to learn what to do and what not to do. Get Involved Meet Our Staff About Us Make an Appointment Brown University BWell Health Promotion Health and Wellness Brown University Box 1928 450 Brook Street Providence, Rhode Island, 02912 Phone 401-863-2794 Fax 401-863-7953 [email protected] © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Related Offices Brown EMS Counseling and Psychological Services Health Services Social Media BWell on Facebook SHAG on Facebook BURP on Facebook Health Services on Facebook