Skip to main content Apply Canvas Map Calendar Library Directory MyUW more_vert more_vert Close Search Tools 25Live Canvas Catalyst Directory IT Help Library MyUW Office365 Panopto Scout Workday Zoom Search University Y Student Center University Y Student Center The UWY expand_more Hours Floor Plans Parking History Recreation & Wellness expand_more Overview Membership Group Exercise Intramurals & Special Events Reflection Room Space Reservations expand_more Make a Reservation Available Spaces Policies & Forms Equipment & Services Rates & Payments Game Room Dawg House Student Lounge MyUW Map Tools University Y Student Center Work Hard + Play Hard The University Y Student Center (UWY) is UW Tacoma's student recreation center. It is a fully operational YMCA, with recreation and fitness spaces, an NCAA regulation basketball court, cardio and weights equipment, indoor track, personal training, and locker rooms. Beyond the recreation center, the UWY serves as a social space for students too. Home to the Center for Student Involvement and student government, campus meeting and event spaces, and a game room, the UWY is a hub of student life at UW Tacoma. Explore our website to learn more about the University Y and everything we have to offer. Hours of Operation Current hours for the University Y Student Center Monday - Friday: 6am to 9pm Saturday: 7am to 3pm Sunday: CLOSED *Hours for the University Y Student Center will be adjusted at the guidance of the University of Washington and the State of Washington Additional Hours Information Work Hard + Play Hard The University Y is a full-service YMCA facility with an indoor track, group exercise classes, climbing wall, weights, cardio, and more! Learn More Let Us Host You Use our meetings room or large event space. Reserve space in the University Y for your next event! Learn More Get Your Game On Stop by the University Y for a round of air hockey, pool, ping-pong, or video games in the second floor Game Room. Learn More Contact University Y Student Center email lbaklund@ymcapkc.org phone_iphone 253,272.9622 OFFICE HOURS: More Information LOCATION: 1710 Market Street ACADEMICS Academic advising Academic calendar Canvas Library Schools and programs Study Abroad Teaching and Learning Center CAMPUS Campus Safety Equity & Inclusion Financial Aid Housing Information Technology Student Life University Y Student Center ABOUT UW TACOMA Administration Admissions Institutional Research Jobs Parking & transportation Research UW Alerts If you have a suggested edit for this page, or notice an error/inaccuracy, please notify our office via the contact information above. UWNetID login UW Seattle | UW Bothell © 2022 University of Washington Tacoma 1900 Commerce Street, Tacoma, WA 98402-3100 Contact us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy