By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Dismiss Stay Safe The official source of public health information for Syracuse University. Skip to Content Open menu About Admissions Academics Life Athletics More Search the University Open search Popular searches Close menu Home About Toggle dropdown Leadership Vision & Mission Consumer Information Facts & Figures Plan Your Visit Campus Map History News Partnerships Work at Syracuse Social Media Bookstore Brand Help & Contacts Admissions Toggle dropdown Undergraduate Graduate Online Part-Time Cost & Aid Request Information Visit & Tour Apply Academics Toggle dropdown Schools & Colleges Undergraduate Majors & Minors Graduate Degrees Online Programs Syracuse University Global Study Abroad Opportunities & Support Calendars Departments Research Centers & Institutes Libraries, Collections & Galleries Academic Administration Life Toggle dropdown Accessibility & Diversity Campus Highlights Events Calendar Services & Support Meals & Dining Housing Groups & Activities Recreation & Facilities For Students For Veterans & Military For Faculty & Staff For Parents & Families A-Z Index Sitemap Login Athletics Men’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Football Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Track and Field Women’s Sports Toggle dropdown Basketball Cross Country Field Hockey Ice Hockey Lacrosse Rowing Soccer Softball Tennis Track and Field Volleyball Athletics Dept. Toggle dropdown Facilities Staff Directory Academic Honors Community Service Spirit Program Varsity Club Sports Medicine Championships Fan Zone Toggle dropdown Dome Schedule Seating Information Orange All Access Otto’s Kids Club Game Photos Promotions Orange Club Schedules News Alumni About Toggle dropdown Notable Alumni Alumni Association Awards News Events and Clubs Toggle dropdown Orange Central Northeast Midwest South West World/Affinity Regions Toggle dropdown Atlanta Boston Chicago Los Angeles Middle East New York San Francisco Washington, DC Services Toggle dropdown Career Network Generation Orange Directory Profile Class Notes Giving Contact Contact Visit Apply Coronavirus Updates Forever Orange Home Admissions Undergraduate First-Year In this Section Requirements Homeschool Application Checklist FAQ Professional Licensures First-Year Students You could be a pioneer like Col. Eileen Collins ’78, the first female space shuttle commander, John Tsebe, the first black national librarian in South Africa, or Robert Jarvik ’68, H’83, inventor of the artificial heart. You could be the next household name, like TV personality Dick Clark ’51, or actor Taye Diggs ’93. You could dominate the arena, like basketball player Carmelo Anthony, or Hall of Fame member, Jim Boeheim ’66, G’73. Or you could influence generations, like Joseph Biden L’68, President of the United States. Why Syracuse? Whatever you decide to do and become, we know it’s going to be amazing. And we know because of the opportunities you’ll have here, including to: Network with more than 230,000 alumni from all 50 states and more than 162 countries. Intern at some of the world’s most admired companies such as Google, Nestle, BMW, J.P. Morgan Chase, General Electric, and Nike. Expand your career options by exploring the numerous fields available in the College of Arts and Sciences , the heart of the University’s liberal arts experience. Study abroad with one of the top programs in the country. Rely on Career Services to guide you through all stages of career planning. Meet people from all backgrounds and commit to diversity and inclusion across campus, with support for DACA/undocumented students, veterans, persons with disabilities, Native Americans, and more. Take a tour Ready to apply? Undergraduate Majors and Minors Whether you know exactly what you want to study or haven’t narrowed down your interests, you have time to explore before declaring a major. Academic Opportunities At Syracuse, ranked #58 by U.S. News & World Report, you'll do more than just pursue your passion. You’ll be given the tools and opportunities that will enable you to flourish in your chosen area of study. Discovery Program Set the tone for your college career with an inaugural semester in Florence, Italy; Madrid, Spain; or Strasbourg, France. Outcomes Syracuse University prepares students with a distinctive education that can be applied across careers and throughout your lifetime. Campus Highlights With its mix of traditional and contemporary architecture, sprawling greens, and historic sculptures, Syracuse’s campus is the backdrop for the stories you’ll tell over and over. Visit and Tour The best way to know if Syracuse is the right fit for you is to visit our gorgeous campus in the heart of New York State. Get Started Link First-Year Student Requirements Link If you are currently enrolled in or have graduated from an accredited secondary school, please apply as a first-year student. Homeschooled Student Requirements Link Homeschooled prospective students applying to Syracuse University for undergraduate admission should be aware of the extra requirements to be considered for admission. Application Checklist Link Use this checklist if you will be an incoming first-year student, and currently attend high school in the United States (or if you are a U.S. citizen or permanent U.S. resident and studying outside the U.S.) Frequently Asked Questions Link What are your requirements for admission? How do I locate my SUID? How do I monitor the status of my application materials online? Do you offer merit scholarships? When should I apply for financial aid? How much is the application fee? Can I receive a fee waiver? More frequently asked questions Featured Stories Live the Orange Experience Through Our Students Join current students as they share a glimpse of daily campus life and what it means to be part of a proud community of innovators, thinkers and change makers. Related Pages Cost and Aid Learn how we work to make a Syracuse University education affordable. Request Information We’re here to help you with your college search. Virtual Campus Tour Explore Syracuse University from the comfort of your own home. Admitted Students Prepare to make your mark intellectually while making a difference on campus and in the world. Summer College Experience Syracuse University before your senior year in high school through one of the many programs offered by our Office of Pre-College Programs. Safety and Security Access the University's annual security report and other information. Popular Toggle dropdown Academic Calendar Campus Map Careers Libraries Majors and Minors Visit and Tour A-Z Toggle dropdown Academic Departments Schools and Colleges Sitemap Search Contact Toggle dropdown Admissions Financial Aid Emergency Contacts Human Resources Make a Gift Login Toggle dropdown MySlice Blackboard SUMail Syracuse University 900 South Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Phone: +1.315.443.1870 Follow S.U. on Instagram Like S.U. on Facebook Follow S.U. on Twitter Follow S.U. on LinkedIn Follow S.U. on Tiktok Subscribe to S.U. on YouTube © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy