Skip to main navigation Skip to main content ALUMNI & FRIENDS ALUMNI & FRIENDS Parents Search BC.edu Links Pine Manor College Alumni Menu Main Nav Pine Manor College Alumni Donate Back Back Close History Transcripts Alumni Voices Pine Manor Institute FAQ Bulletin Archive Events Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Welcome, PMC alums! On behalf of more than 190,000 living Boston College alumni around the world, we are delighted to welcome you to our family! Although Pine Manor College has closed, BC is committed to ensuring its mission lives on. This website offers a host of resources to keep the memory of PMC alive for you and your fellow Gators. I invite you also to take full advantage of the benefits now available to you as part of our Eagle network—including affinity groups, regional chapters, networking opportunities, and much more. The end of one chapter signals the beginning of the next. We are beyond excited to have you as a part of the Boston College community, and hope you will find connecting and engaging with our alumni network to be a rewarding experience. Warm regards, Leah M. Spencer, Associate Vice President for Alumni Relations and University Commencement Director Quick Links Transcripts Benefits Contact Us History Established in 1911, Pine Manor College was originally a post-secondary institution preparing women for successful careers and lives ahead. Discover the history and campus here. Learn More Request Transcript Please follow these instructions from the National Student Clearinghouse to request a transcript. Learn More Frequently Asked Questions Get answers to your most frequently asked questions. Learn More Pine Manor Institute Established in 2020, The Pine Manor Institute for Student Success is an initiative from the partnership between Boston College and Pine Manor College. Learn More Alumni Voices Read about the Pine Manor College experience from featured alumni. Learn More The PMC Bulletin The Pine Manor College bulletins were comprehensive documents published for the PMC community to be in the know. Learn More Update Your Address Make sure your connection with the Boston College and Pine Manor College alumni networks remains current. Learn More Upcoming Alumni Events Attend a Boston College Alumni Association event, open to all Pine Manor College alumni. Learn More Share Your Preferences Get to know Boston College better and engage with communications and events offered to our Eagles—and now to all Gators! Learn More Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok