Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. UC News UC News right arrow down arrow UC News Search Topics right arrow down arrow UC Answers #UCtheGood In The News Arts & Culture Science & Tech International Athletics Health College Bound Impact right arrow down arrow #UCtheGood Insights Diversity Experience-Based Learning Next Lives Here Bicentennial COVID-19 Student Experience Colleges right arrow down arrow College of Allied Health Sciences College of Arts & Sciences College of Business Blue Ash College Clermont College College-Conservatory of Music College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services College of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing College of Pharmacy Units right arrow down arrow Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources IT@UC Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Continuing Education Media Contacts Home » UC News » Search Keyword Events Include Events (default) Exclude Events Only Show Events Only Show Past Events Only Show Upcoming Events Start Date End Date topics Select topics Answers Arts & Culture Athletics Bicentennial College bound COVID-19 Diversity Entrepreneurship Experience-based Learning Faculty Staff Health Impact In The News Insights International Must Read Next Lives Here Science & Tech Student Experience Thought Leadership colleges Select colleges College of Arts and Sciences Blue Ash College College of Allied Health Sciences College-Conservatory of Music College of Engineering and Applied Science College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services Clermont College Lindner College of Business College of Design, Architecture, Art, and Planning Graduate School College of Law College of Medicine College of Nursing Online College of Pharmacy units Select units Academic Health Center Admissions Alumni Association Board of Trustees Campus Services Continuing Education Equity and Inclusion Hoxworth Human Resources UCIT Libraries Office of Innovation Office of Research President's Office Provost Public Safety Student Affairs UC Foundation Veteran's Affairs Author Clear All Filters {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove {{facet.display}} remove 86 Results Sort By: Newest First right arrow down arrow Newest First Oldest First 55KRC: Naomi Judd suicide brings awareness to mental health... May 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Caleb Adler discussed the recent death by suicide of singer Naomi Judd, risk factors for suicide and resources available for those struggling with mental health issues. MSN, Yahoo highlight UC blueberry study May 17, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Robert Krikorian's research into blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged adults was featured on MSN and Yahoo among other news sites. Parade: Fidget toys can be coping tools for depression and... May 11, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel was featured in a Parade article about the benefits of fidget toys to cope with anxiety and depression. LifeHacker: How to parent an empath May 10, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Shana Feibel gave tips to LifeHacker on how to parent an empath, someone who feels other people's feelings as if they are their own. Regular blueberry consumption may reduce risk of dementia, study... May 10, 2022 Research from the University of Cincinnati shows daily blueberry supplementation for certain middle-aged populations may lower the chances of developing late-life dementia. Cannabis Man podcast highlights UC researcher May 5, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's LaTrice Montgomery was a guest on the Cannabis Man podcast to discuss the current state of cannabis research. Consumer Affairs: Socioeconomic status may affect response to... April 20, 2022 Consumer Affairs and Healthing Canada recently featured research from the University of Cincinnati showing patients seeking treatment for depression who have lower income and education and those who are members of minority populations tend to have worse treatment outcomes even when receiving equal access to treatment. UC study: Socioeconomic factors affect response to depression... April 15, 2022 University of Cincinnati researchers Jeffrey Mills and Jeffrey Strawn have collaborated on a new research study showing socioeconomic factors affect outcomes for patients being treated for depression even when receiving equal access to care. Reuters Health: Tablets tied to better use of VA mental health... April 12, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Kate Chard was featured in a Reuters Health article examining a study of video tablet telehealth mental health services for veterans. New York Times: Can A.I.-driven voice analysis identify mental... April 6, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Maria Espinola was featured in a New York Times article about the role of artificial intelligence in identifying mental disorders through the sound of a patient's voice. Local 12: Gun violence and mental health March 7, 2022 Local 12 featured Dr. Maria Espinola in a story on the connection between gun violence and mental health. Forbes: Doctors use AI, supercomputer to predict and prevent... March 3, 2022 Forbes featured the University of Cincinnati and Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center's John Pestian in a story about the collaborative effort to use supercomputing and AI to help predict and prevent mental illness. Digging deeper into cannabis research February 23, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. LaTrice Montgomery recently reviewed published research on cannabis use among different racial and ethnic groups and found there are large gaps in the field since most studies compare each group to white populations. Healthline: COVID-19 increases risk of mental health disorders February 21, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Maria Espinola was featured in a Healthline article examining a recent study showing COVID-19 infection increases a person's risk for mental health disorders. 55KRC: Better student mental health resources needed February 21, 2022 The University of Cincinnati's Dr. Erica Birkley was featured on 55KRC's Simply Medicine program to discuss the need for better mental health resources for students. Load More Debug Query for this University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-0000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top