<form runat="server"></form>
<WebPartPages:SPWebPartManager runat="server"/>
 Skip to Main Content HBS Home About Academic Programs Alumni Faculty & Research Baker Library Giving Harvard Business Review Initiatives News Recruit Map / Directions MBA FAQ Introduce Yourself Blog Visit Apply Academic Experience Entrepreneurship Student Life Career Path Admissions Financial Aid …→ Harvard Business School→ MBA→ Student Life Student Life Activities, Government & Clubs Campus People Community Values The First-Year Experience The Second Year Experience The HBS Community → People→ Portrait Project Portrait Project Arielle Anderson MBA 2022 “Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?” Everyone wants to be seen and accepted. I had gone through life feeling either overlooked and invisible or misunderstood and rejected. Setbacks in childhood left me feeling inadequate in adulthood. I battled crippling social anxiety and faced the realities of prejudice as the only Black girl on a predominantly white swim team for a decade. I felt like an outsider. Navigating adulthood as an outsider was lonely but a few genuine people changed things for me. I don’t know the recipe of a good friend, but I can describe the feeling of meeting someone who listens and understands without judging. I know what it’s like to have roommates who give me space to be myself in the safety of our home. I felt a comforting stillness when friends mobilized to support me when I lost my grandfather. And I’m humbled to have friends choose to stay when I’m at my worst. Everyone deserves to know what acceptance feels like. I want to help people around me recognize their significance. I want to be intentional with the opportunities I have to show someone they are seen and heard. Because it only takes feeling seen by one person to change someone’s life. — Arielle Anderson The Portrait Project Each year we ask our classmates a straightforward, simple question taken from the lines of a poem by Pulitzer Prize-winning author, Mary Oliver. We share with you intimate and candid responses to this question, "Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?" Concept and photography: Tony Deifell, MBA '02 More Portrait Project ǁ MBA Admissions Harvard Business School Spangler Welcome Center (Spangler 107) Boston, MA 02163 Phone: 1.617.495.6128 Email: admissions@hbs.edu →Map & Directions →More Contact Information Make a Gift Site Map Jobs Harvard University Trademarks Policies Digital Accessibility Copyright © President & Fellows of Harvard College