Skip navigation Information For: Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Search Brown Search AMS About Education Student Affairs Diversity Admission Financial Aid Med A to Z People Directory Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Fellowship Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Fellowship Program Welcome from the Fellowship Director Thank you for your interest in the Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Fellowship Training Program at the Warren Alpert School Medical School of Brown University. The mission of our program is train physicians to provide compassionate care for children and young adults with cancer and blood disorders. Our program develops skilled clinicians with experience in research methodology and scholarship opportunities. We aim to train the next generation of clinical and research leaders in pediatric hematology and oncology. The program is based at Hasbro Children’s Hospital, a tertiary care children’s hospital serving a medically complex patient population in a diverse and urban setting. As the only children’s hospital in the state, we serve patients from Rhode Island, Eastern Connecticut, and Southeast Massachusetts. Our academic relationship with Brown University provides a rich resource for education and research. We are a clinically well-rounded program with a diversity and depth of experience reflective of the complex and evolving nature of the field. Fellows in our program have the opportunity to participate in selected coursework within the Brown University School of Public Health. There are numerous opportunities for scholarly activity within our division, the department and the medical school. Our fellows have found success in basic and translational research efforts as well as clinical, medical education and public health focused projects. Through our participation in international cooperative groups and industry sponsored clinical trials, our trainees are exposed to state-of-the-art clinical research for patients in pediatric hematology and oncology. Our faculty have a broad range of backgrounds and interests and are involved in national and international disease-specific efforts. Additionally, we are proud to offer a faculty-to-fellow ratio that supports individualized learning and ensures access to consistent clinical, educational and research mentorship during fellowship training. We firmly believe in work-life balance. Rhode Island is a wonderful place to live and is recognized for its outstanding quality of life. Housing is reasonably priced and the commutes are easy. Ocean beaches and inland woods, professional sport teams and philharmonic orchestras, shopping and fantastic restaurants are all close by – just like everything in the smallest state in the union. Please don’t hesitate to reach out with any questions. We look forward to receiving your application. With best wishes, Rishi R. Lulla, MD, MS Director, Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Fellowship Program The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University [email protected] Program Videos Welcome Program Information Information for Applicants Curriculum Research Faculty Meet Our Fellows Life in Rhode Island Print this Page Share this Page Hasbro Children's Hospital Brown University Division of Pediatric Hematology Oncology 593 Eddy Street Providence, RI 02903 Phone 401-444-5171 Fax 401-444-8845 Biology and Medicine Events Jun 2 1:00pm - 2:00pm REDCap Workshop: Automation in REDCap - Using REDCap to Automate Research Tasks Jun 3 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds Jun 8 11:00am - 12:00pm Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Grand Rounds* Finding the EHR Data to Tell Your Clinical Story: Early Experiences with Lifespan Pediatric Behavioral Health Emergency Services Jun 8 3:00pm - 5:00pm CDH Pitch Competition Jun 10 8:30am - 9:30am Pediatric Grand Rounds View full calendar > The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Box G-A1, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-3330 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Facebook / LinkedIn / YouTube / Flickr / Twitter Resources Academic Departments Affiliated Hospitals Faculty Directory Make a Gift Helpful Links Lifespan Brown Library PubMed Clinical Trials ERAS Organizations COG ASPHO ASCO ASH