Skip to main content Utility Links University of Pennsylvania Office of the Provost Secondary Nav Penn OLI Contact Us Group Created with Sketch. Group Created with Sketch. search Group Created with Sketch. full menu Primary Nav Penn OLI Courses & Programs For Faculty & Online Teams For Penn Students About Drawer Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Search Group Created with Sketch. Faculty & Online Teams Questions Basic Page Sidebar Menu Penn OLI Courses & Programs Explore Back to main menu Search Offerings Learner Questions For Faculty & Online Teams Explore Back to main menu How to Create Vital Online Communities Faculty & Online Teams Questions Contact Us For Penn Students About Explore Back to main menu OLI Team Faculty Advisory Committee Explore Back to main menu Working Groups OLI News FAQs Contact Us Looking for help in teaching an online course? Here are some questions and answers to point you to the right resources. Do you have a question that's not answered here? Please get in touch with the OLI team. I'd like to teach online. Where do I start? If you're a current Penn faculty member, contact the Online Learning Initiative team! We can help begin the process and connect you with all of the resources you need to transition your teaching to an online environment. Please note that OLI works with faculty who are already affiliated with Penn, and does not accept applications for teaching positions . If I teach online, who's available to help me? In addition to the Online Learning Initiative team, you have the support of the Center for Teaching and Learning, Penn Libraries Teaching and Learning Services, and resources in your school. I need help with Canvas. Where do I go? The Canvas at Penn site includes helpful guides to Canvas and other educational technology tools. If you need immediate assistance, submit an online help request or check out your school-specific contact information. I'd like to try a new pedagogical strategy in my online course. What are my options? The Center for Teaching and Learning is ready to assist faculty with all aspects of teaching. I need help integrating technology into my online course. Where do I go? Connect with Penn Libraries Teaching and Learning Services and the Center for Teaching and Learning to talk about tools and strategies that will help you achieve your instructional goals. I need help with edX or Coursera. Where do I go? For self-guided materials, start with edX’s documentation site or Coursera’s Partner Resource Center. Please note that you will need to log in with your edX or Coursera account. You’re also welcome to get in touch with the Online Learning Initiative team. See All FAQs FAQs OLI News Give Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Van Pelt-Dietrich Library 3420 Walnut St Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-898-1598 Penn WebLogin ©2022 University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 Footer Menu Contact Us Accessibility Office of the Provost