Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Computer and Systems Security Certificate (Graduate) You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Computer and Systems Security Certificate (Graduate) Apply Request More Info Computer and Systems Security Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Computer and Systems Security Certificate Gain expertise in preventing or addressing vulnerabilities by earning a Graduate Certificate in Computer and Systems Security at Temple University. The ability to handle threats to security within the physical technology layer in healthcare, manufacturing, power grids and stations, and other infrastructure has never been in greater demand. This academic certificate confers graduate-level expertise without requiring you to enroll in a graduate degree program. You will develop skills to safeguard the networked computers and the embedded systems critical to maintaining productivity and safety. Credit Requirements The Computer and Systems Security certificate requires nine credit hours. Those credits may be transferred into the Professional Science Master in Computer and Systems Security program. Who might be interested? This program is offered by the College of Engineering and is an excellent fit for professionals or graduates with an undergraduate degree in engineering, computer science or information technology. Classes and Curriculum Cybersecurity professionals developed and teach the curriculum for this newly established certificate program. It is designed to give you workplace-ready skills built on hands-on experience gained from tackling threat scenarios in our cutting-edge Cisco Networking Academy lab. This program is available part time and in the evenings. To earn this certificate, you must complete these three courses. Engineering Principles of Computer Intrusion and Detection Introduction to Communication Networks Introduction to Cryptography and Information Security Admissions Information This program accepts students to begin each fall. Students should have an undergraduate degree in engineering. Though students from other backgrounds may apply, those from fields such as information technology or computer science should consult with the director of admissions about their academic plans. Application Components You do not have to submit GRE scores. Complete and submit the following. Application form: Complete the graduate certificate program application form and include information about your current employer. Transcripts: Submit official transcripts of all credit-bearing courses you’ve taken at colleges and universities. Statement of Goals: In one to two pages, describe your relevant technical experiences and career goals. Résumé: Include a current résumé or a CV with your application. For additional information, contact Admissions and Graduate Student Services at gradengr@temple.edu. Applications may also be mailed to Admissions and Graduate Student Services College of Engineering Temple University 1947 N. 12th St. Philadelphia, PA 19122 Please note: International students may not be eligible to apply for a student visa based on admission to this certificate program. Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Graduate Certificate offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $1,184.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,546.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Contact Us If you have any questions about our graduate programs, the admissions process or other general inquiries, do not hesitate to contact us. Phone: 215-204-7800 Email: gradengr@temple.edu EN-CSS-GRAD Additional Program Information Visit College Site Go back to AcademicsMore in Computer and Systems Security Certificate (Graduate) Our Faculty Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info