Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons Iowa State University Campus Climate Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search News Reporting system How to Report Process FAQ Incidents Resources Policies Climate Survey 2017 Project History and Press Climate Study Documents Climate Study Teams Implementation Efforts New Initiatives FAQ Pre-Survey FAQ Data How to Report an Incident In the event of a campus climate incident, a report may be submitted here: Report an Incident *Please do not report incidents of Sexual Misconduct to Campus Climate Response System (CCRS). You may make these types of reports to the Office of Equal Opportunity (eooffice@iastate.edu, 515-294-7612). Reports may be submitted by various individuals impacted by the incident, including the victim(s), witness(es), or a third party who was informed of the incident but was not present at the time of its occurrence. The CCRS has a response timeframe of approximately 72 hours. If an individual chooses not to report the incident via the online form, other reporting options are available during normal business hours: In person at the Office of Equal Opportunity, 3410 Beardshear Hall Via email by sending detailed information to eooffice@iastate.edu By phone, 515-294-7612 Anyone encountering a situation that requires immediate police assistance, medical or other emergency services should call the Iowa State University Police Department (ISUPD) at 515-294-4428 or 911. Helpful hints for reporting a campus climate incident: Pay close attention to the date, time, and location of the incident. Providing as many facts as possible assists in the response to the incident. Describe the incident with as much detail as possible. Identify the individuals involved by name and/or Iowa State affiliation, if known. List possible witness(es) by name with contact information; please indicate whether there were witnesses to the incident. Recall that reports can be submitted via the online form, in person, via email, or by phone. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Campus Climate 2680 Beardshear Hall Ames, IA 50011-2103 vpdeioffice@iastate.edu 515-294-8840 phone Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Copyright © 1995-2022 Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Consumer information