Skip to main content Harvard University 1 site notification Latest COVID Information Search Search Quick Links Find a Person A to Z Index Menu Academics Academics Explore all programs Browse all of our undergraduate concentrations, graduate degrees, and professional certificates. Harvard Schools Academics Visit each School for information on admissions and financial aid. Explore more Harvard College Harvard Business School Harvard Division of Continuing Education Harvard Divinity School Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Harvard Graduate School of Design Harvard Graduate School of Education Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Harvard Kennedy School Harvard Law School Harvard Medical School Harvard Radcliffe Institute Harvard School of Dental Medicine Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health Professional and lifelong learning Free online courses More about academics at Harvard Campus Campus Harvard's Campus Get tickets to our next game, hours and locations for our libraries and museums, and information about your next career move. Libraries Campus Explore our libraries Arnold Arboretum Horticultural Library Baker Library and Special Collections Biblioteca Berenson Botany Libraries Cabot Science Library Countway Library Dumbarton Oaks Research Library Ernst Mayr Library Fine Arts Library Frances Loeb Library Fung Library Gutman Library Harvard Divinity School Library Harvard Film Archive Harvard Law School Library Harvard Map Collection Harvard University Archives Harvard-Yenching Library HKS Library and Knowledge Services Houghton Library Lamont Library Loeb Music Library Robbins Library of Philosophy Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America Tozzer Library Widener Library Wolbach Library Woodberry Poetry Room Museums Campus Explore our museums The Arnold Arboretum Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments Graduate School of Design Exhibitions Harvard Art Museums Harvard Forest Harvard Museum of Natural History The Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East Harvard Museums of Science and Culture Harvard University Herbaria Mineralogical and Geological Museum Museum of Comparative Zoology The Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology Warren Anatomical Museum Athletics Work at Harvard Events Commencement Campus Harvard Commencement for the Class of 2022 Harvard Commencement for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 In Focus In Focus Explore and understand the world with Harvard In Focus is a curated examination of Harvard's research, scholarly work, and community. Recent topics include: Commencement 2022 In Focus Celebrating the Graduates Highlighting the accomplishments and celebrating the bright futures of Harvard’s most recent grads Meet this year's graduates What's inside? The Harvard Gazette's coverage of this year's Commencement Explore each School's events Mental Health In Focus Mental Health Awareness Month To commemorate Mental Health Awareness Month, the Harvard community is exploring how we cope with, manage, and understand mental health and how it impacts our lives. View the feature What's inside? Is a mobile app as good as a therapist? Bipolar breakthrough Climate Solutions In Focus Climate Solutions Faculty and students from across the Harvard community are working on ways to address climate change and its effects. Explore these adaptations What's inside? Zero-waste architecture Better batteries inspired by a BLT Explore the In Focus archives Visit Visit Visit Harvard Ideas and assistance for your trip to our campus. Tours Maps and Directions About About About Harvard Information on how Harvard is structured, explore our long history, and discover our extended community. History of Harvard About History of Harvard Harvard is perhaps best-known because of its enduring history of innovation in education. But even die-hard Harvard buffs are not likely to know all of these Harvard firsts and historical snippets. Learn more History timeline Nobel Laureates Honorary Degrees Harvard Shields Leadership and Governance About Learn about our Leadership Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers University Professorships Diversity and Inclusion Endowment Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World News News The Harvard Gazette Official news from Harvard University about science, medicine, art, campus life, University issues, and broader national and global concerns. Trending News Stories News Read more news Jacinda Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivers warning on erosion of trust in her Commencement address, urging social media reforms and calling on individuals to reject tribalism. Harvard awards seven honorary degrees During today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre, Harvard will recognize seven with an honorary degree. Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Hairless, clawless, and largely weaponless, ancient humans used the unlikely combination of sweatiness and relentlessness to gain the upper hand over their faster, stronger, generally more dangerous animal prey, Harvard Anthropology Professor Daniel Lieberman said Thursday (April 12). Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Class Day speaker Michelle Wu ’07, J.D. ’12, urged the class of 2022 to hold fast to Harvard’s founding motto “veritas,” or truth. Sign up for the Daily Gazette Navigation Quick Links A to Z Index Find a Person Events Media Relations Alumni Give Now Harvard University Close Leadership and Governance Harvard Corporation About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment About Harvard History of Harvard Timeline Nobel Laureates Harvard’s Laureates in Economic Science Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Chemistry Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Literature Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Medicine Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Peace Harvard’s Nobel Laureates in Physics History of honorary degrees Harvard Shields Harvard in the Community Harvard in the World Leadership and Governance Officers and Deans Harvard Corporation Board of Overseers Endowment More Chartered in 1650 Known formally as the President and Fellows of Harvard College, the Harvard Corporation is the oldest corporation in the Western Hemisphere. News & Reports Tracy Palandjian elected to Harvard Corporation Tracy Pun Palandjian ’93, M.B.A. ’97, a Boston-based nonprofit leader, former Harvard Overseer, and recognized expert on impact investing, will become the newest member of the Harvard Corporation, the University announced Monday. View Article Diana Nelson ’84 will join Harvard Corporation as newest member Diana L. Nelson ’84 will become the newest member of the Harvard Corporation effective July 1. View Article Joe O’Donnell bids Harvard Corporation adieu For more than 50 years, prominent Boston business executive Joe O’Donnell ’67, M.B.A. ’71, has served in different capacities at Harvard, as an elected director of the Harvard Alumni Association, a Corporation member, and an Overseer. He will step down from the Corporation on June 30. View Article Harvard Corporation elects two new members Penny S. Pritzker ’81, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce and past Harvard Overseer, and Carolyn A. “Biddy” Martin, president of Amherst College and former Chancellor of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, have been chosen as the newest members of the Harvard Corporation. View Article Two appointed to Harvard Corporation Timothy R. Barakett ’87, M.B.A. ’93, and Mariano-Florentino (Tino) Cuéllar ’93 have been elected to become members of the Harvard Corporation. Both will assume their roles on July 1. View Article Members The following are the current members of the Harvard Corporation. Lawrence S. Bacow, President SB ’72, MIT JD ’76, MPP ’76, PhD ’78, Harvard Timothy R. Barakett Fellow (began service in 2019) AB ’87, MBA ’93, Harvard Kenneth I. Chenault Fellow (began service in 2014) BA ’73, Bowdoin JD ’76, Harvard Mariano-Florentino (Tino) Cuéllar Fellow (began service in 2019) AB ’93, Harvard JD ’97, Yale AM ’96, PhD ’00, Stanford Paul J. Finnegan Fellow (2012-2014) Treasurer (began service in 2014) AB ’75, MBA ’82, Harvard William F. Lee Fellow (began service in 2010) Senior Fellow (began service in 2014) AB ’72, Harvard MBA ’76, JD ’76, Cornell Biddy Martin Fellow (began service in 2018) BA ’73, College of William and Mary MA ’74, Middlebury College PhD ’85, U. of Wisconsin, Madison Karen Gordon Mills Fellow (began service in 2014) AB ’75, MBA ’77, Harvard Diana L. Nelson Fellow (began service in 2020) AB ’84, Harvard MM ’89, Northwestern Penny Pritzker Fellow (began service in 2018) AB ’81, Harvard JD ’85, MBA ’85, Stanford David M. Rubenstein Fellow (began service in 2017) BA ’70, Duke JD ’73, Chicago Shirley M. Tilghman Fellow (began service in 2016) BSc ’68, Queen’s U. PhD ’75, Temple U. LLD (hon.) ’04, Harvard Theodore V. Wells, Jr. Fellow (began service in 2013) BA ’72, Holy Cross JD ’76, MBA ‘76, Harvard Security & Brand Report Copyright Infringement Report Security Issue Trademark Notice Website Accessibility Digital Accessibility Privacy Statement Get In Touch Contact Harvard Maps & Directions Jobs © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube 0:00 0:00