Skip to main content University of Nevada, Las Vegas Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Audiences Students Faculty/Staff Alumni Donors Community Topics About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Menu U-N-L-V Campus Life Campus Life About Academics Admissions Athletics Diversity Research Find close Campus Life menu Campus Life Campus Life Home Arts and Entertainment Get Involved Las Vegas Our Campus Student Support School Spirit and Traditions Wellness close find region Find Search A-Z Index Directories Quick Links Bookstore Bookstore Calendar Calendar Campus Maps Campus Maps Degrees Degrees Libraries Libraries MyUNLV MyUNLV News Center News Center RebelCard RebelCard Rebelmail Rebelmail Social Media Social Media UNLV Mail UNLV Mail WebCampus WebCampus Loading Directories Home A-Z Index Colleges, Schools, and Departments Administrative Units Research Centers and Institutes Resources and Services Employee Directory Contact UNLV Social Media Directory UNLV Mobile Apps Breadcrumb UNLV Home Campus Life Home Las Vegas Las Vegas One of UNLV's most valuable assets is its location. The Las Vegas Valley's many world-class resorts, desert destinations, and tourist attractions provide adventure, enrichment, and academic opportunities for our community. Unique Connections Our campus and our city may be young, but there’s no denying that they both are industrious and innovative in spirit and growth. As Rebels, we have unique connections with industry, technology, and leadership exclusive to the Las Vegas Strip and surrounding areas. Photograph: UNLV Photo Services Learning Opportunities in Las Vegas Photograph: Marsh Starks/UNLV Photo Services Hospitality and Gaming Known as the Entertainment Capital of the World, Las Vegas is also a top-three global leader in the hospitality industry, and one of the most-visited tourist destinations. Located just minutes from UNLV, the Las Vegas Strip provides the perfect setting for students to gain hands-on, once-in-a-lifetime opportunities not found anywhere else — from headlining their own magic show and developing new gaming machines, to creating innovative costumes for Cirque du Soleil and having the ear of top industry executives. Learn more Photograph: Michael Miller (licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0) Vegas Sports UNLV prides itself on being innovative in its response to emerging opportunities. A burgeoning Las Vegas professional sport industry — including the Golden Knights, Raiders, Aces, Lights, and Aviators — offers a new workforce need for UNLV to step up and feed, as we continue to play a distinct role in transforming the image of Las Vegas and identity of those who live here. Photograph: Josh Hawkins/UNLV Creative Services eSports With Las Vegas developing into a major esports destination, the opportunities have been plentiful for students and faculty— our esports lab was the first class that any university has offered of its kind, our 8-bit esports team won the first-ever Mountain West eSports Showdown, and our researchers are examining the relationship between resorts, eSports and the Gaming Control Board. Learn more Photograph: Aaron Mayes/UNLV Photo Services Desert Research The surrounding desert landscape provides our students and faculty the opportunity for hands-on interaction and groundbreaking discoveries, including life sciences students observing samplings of the springs at Ash Meadows National Wildlife Refuge to geologist Stephen Rowland’s discovery of 28 footprints left behind by a reptile-like creature 310 million years ago — the oldest ever to be found in Grand Canyon National Park. Learn more The Region Of course, any college experience includes more than the intellectual stimulation of the classroom and the physical confines of the city and campus. It also takes color and character from the university's larger environment. For UNLV, this is the Southwest — only four to five hours by car from the beaches and Hollywood hills of Southern California to the major metropolitan areas of Utah and Arizona. Photograph: Sam Morris/Las Vegas News Bureau Destinations Near Las Vegas Los Angeles Los Angeles Photograph: Caleb George (licensed CC0 1.0) Phoenix Phoenix Photograph: Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 San Diego San Diego Photograph: XeresNelro (licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0) Salt Lake City Salt Lake City Recreation Mild desert temperatures make outdoor recreation possible throughout the year in Southern Nevada. Within a 30-mile radius lie the shores of Lake Mead, massive Hoover Dam and the Colorado River recreation area, the snow-skiing and hiking trails of 12,000-foot Mount Charleston, and a panorama of red-rock mountains and eroded sandstone landscapes. UNLV’s Outdoor Adventures makes it easy to engage in outdoor recreation through our trips, workshops, and equipment rental program. Outdoor Adventures Photograph: Sam Morris/Las Vegas News Bureau Recreational Activities Near Las Vegas Red Rock Canyon Red Rock Canyon Sam Morris/Las Vegas News Bureau Mount Charleston Mount Charleston Photograph: Brian Jones/Las Vegas News Bureau Hoover Dam Hoover Dam Lake Mead Lake Mead Photograph: Josh Hawkins/UNLV Creative Services Zion National Park Zion National Park Grand Canyon National Park Grand Canyon National Park Photograph: Josh Hawkins/UNLV Creative Services Las Vegas - it’s in our name, it’s where we call home, and it’s a big part of who we are. Where else can you experience more than 300 days of sunshine a year, run a marathon alongside Elvis, and have unparalleled educational opportunities right at your fingertips? Photograph: Sam Morris/Las Vegas News Bureau Wellness Coronavirus Information Safety and Emergency University Statements and Compliance Web Accessibility Top Tier 2.0 Employment Visit Our Campus Campus Maps Parking Information News Center Contact UNLV University of Nevada, Las Vegas 4505 S. Maryland Pkwy. Las Vegas, NV 89154 Phone: 702-895-3011 Campus Notifications © 2022 UNLV Produced by UNLV Web & Digital Strategy UNLV.edu Privacy Statement Website Feedback Social Media at UNLV