Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Advancing tomorrow’s legal leaders Dedman School of Law Empowering excellence Dedman Law empowers our law school community by providing a rich educational experience for its students, pro bono legal representation for underserved clients through its clinical program, and a robust resource for the legal and business sectors. Our alumni lead international law firms, serve as CEOs and general counsels to some of the nation’s largest corporations, and serve as judges and public servants across the globe. Our faculty members are award-winning professors and instructors, nationally recognized attorneys and legal scholars engaged in influential, cutting-edge research, committed to their students’ success. SMU Fund for Dedman Law When you give to the SMU fund for Dedman Law you help support our most urgent priorities and our highest-impact initiatives. Joining other generous donors, you are investing in the future of legal education for our nation and world. Consider providing the unrestricted resources required to address current funding needs, including the Association for Public Interest Law (APIL), the Board of Advocates and judicial and public interest externships. Make a Gift Make an impact Your support for scholarships strategically positions Dedman Law to effectively attract and compete for the best and brightest students. Whether you choose to make a current gift, establish an endowment or combine both for maximum impact, your giving helps us reduce the heavy debt burdens our students face when starting their careers. With your help, we are seeing the results as more and more highly qualified students are choosing to study law at SMU. Legal clinics expand and deepen the impact of Dedman Law in the Dallas community and beyond. Your support is essential to the success of 11 high-demand legal clinics that target specific legal areas, including civil, criminal, family, patent, small business and trademark – and our newest clinic is focused on the First Amendment. Our philosophy of legal education extends far beyond the classroom – we give our students real-world, practical experience through the clinics, our public service requirement, our robust legal externship programs and our award-winning moot court program. Enhance the learning experience The classroom is the heart of the learning experience at SMU, and the most effective facilities enhance the instructional environment – where students develop the necessary skills to analyze difficult legal problems, advocate for their clients and commit to advancing the cause of justice. Built in 1924, Florence Hall no longer serves the instructional needs of a 21st-century student. Therefore, SMU is moving forward with plans to construct a new, digitally equipped classroom facility that will position Dedman Law to compete effectively with other top law schools in Texas, the United States and around the globe. This technologically empowered facility will serve as a signature feature of SMU’s main Dallas campus. As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we now embark on SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Blaze a new path Anne Beard Director of Development Dedman School of Law agbeard@smu.edu or 214-768-4527 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search