COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Music Composition, Major MajorMusic Composition All Programs College of Fine Arts School of Music Wichita State’s Bachelor of Music (BM) in music composition degree combines quality training from professional faculty with opportunities to gain real-world experience, in venues big and small, on campus and throughout Kansas’ center of arts and culture. Students can choose from five areas of emphasis: harp / guitar / bass, keyboard, strings, voice and winds / percussion. Learn how music composition is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program To be admitted to the School of Music, you must first be admitted to Wichita State. Admission into the Music Theory/Composition Program requires considerable background study in piano or organ. Admission is based upon special application to the program. Transfer students should have completed compositions for review prior to acceptance. For WSU’s admission requirements, and to apply, click the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Piano major finds early success as a freshman As just a freshman, piano major Patrick Orr won the grand prize in the Kansas City Symphony Young Artist Competition. As the winner of the competition, Orr received the honor of accompanying the Kansas City Symphony in two performances. Orr’s interest in the piano began after he watched “Titanic” as a kid and decided to learn how to play the hymn “Nearer My God to Thee.” “I knew I wanted to play, but I didn't know how important it would be to me. I just knew I wanted to keep doing it.” Curriculum The School of Music offers five emphasis areas in music composition: harp / guitar / bass, keyboard, strings, voice and winds / percussion. The program covers courses in applied music, general music, history and literature of music, conducting, ensembles and recitals—preparing you for graduate study and for a composing career. View the curriculum Careers Music Composition graduates pursue a variety of employment opportunities, including: composition for orchestration or arranging, freelance composition, music copying or computer graphics in music, music publishing and editing, commercial music or music composition for children. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Jazz and Contemporary Media Music Performance - Instrumental Music Performance - Keyboard Music Performance - Vocal Music Education - Instrumental Music Education - Keyboard 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©