Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Equity, Inclusion & Community Impact Inclusion right arrow down arrow About right arrow down arrow Meet The Team CDO Roundtable Diversity Council D&I Resource Liaisons Student Diversity & Inclusion Council Employee Resource Groups Guiding Principles Equity & Inclusion App Feedback Equity & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Workshop Request Form Equity & Inclusion Conference right arrow down arrow Call for Concurrent Session Proposals Equity & Inclusion Incentive Grants Marian Spencer Equity Ambassador Award Services right arrow down arrow Services Request Form Equal Opportunity & Access right arrow down arrow Affirmative Action Plan & Equal Employment Opportunity Section 504/ADA Grievance Procedure Complaint Resolution and Consultation Community Education & Workshops right arrow down arrow Equal Opportunity & Access ACADEMY right arrow down arrow Graduate Class of 2021 Inclusive Excellence Workshops The Student Experience right arrow down arrow Semester/Capstone Projects Gender Equity & Inclusion (Title IX) right arrow down arrow Making a Report right arrow down arrow Confidentiality Employee Responsibility Support & Resources right arrow down arrow Supportive Measures Pregnancy and Parenting Resources Responding to Disclosures Resources for Complainants and Respondents Gender Identity Resources Community Education & Training right arrow down arrow Training Request Form Gender and Sexual Diversity Terminology Title IX right arrow down arrow Reporting Options Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy Sex- and/or Gender-Based Misconduct Policy and Procedure Training Materials for UC Title IX Personnel Community Impact right arrow down arrow CPS Strong Make a Gift right arrow down arrow Darwin T. Turner Scholars Program DEI Toolkit Home » About UC » Equity, Inclusion and Community Impact » DEI Toolkit DEI Toolkit The DEI Toolkit is designed to not only reinforce or introduce participants to key terms and concepts but more importantly, it is designed to allow participants to look at diversity and inclusion on UC’s campus from the perspective of our students. As a facilitated experience, all the eight topics covered in the toolkit are real. They are based on critical incident research in which qualitative data were used to develop scripts and subsequently video reenactments of experiences our students had with faculty or other students on or near campus. The research and creation of the toolkit was supported by a grant from the Office of Equity and Inclusion and Community Impact and the Center for the Enhancement of Teaching and Learning (CET&L). The research was conducted by members of Dr. Donna Chrobot-Mason’s lab, the Center for Organizational Leadership. The videos were produced and edited by CCM’s media center and students in Kevin Burke and Donald Hancock’s courses. Actors were hired from our very own CCM acting students. The DEI toolkit is designed with flexibility in mind. To best meet the needs of our university community, we have developed several options from which to select: a 60-minute session, a 90-minute session, a 2-hour session, and a modular session to review each topic independently. We are striving to ensure members of our university community have a sense of belonging, are enhancing their cultural competence, are using their personal power to impact positive change, and are owning their actions and decisions. As a result, we're encouraging members of our community to adopt inclusive practices that create an atmosphere of respect, support, and accountability. The DEI Toolkit will enhance the knowledge and skills of our community to make this a reality. To learn more about the DEI Toolkit and schedule a training, please review the promotional video and complete the form below. University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati Oh 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top