Skip to main content Close search Search for people, topics, events, etc. Search Go to homepage Toggle menu Toggle search Close menu Events & Exhibitions Visit Upcoming Events Past Events Fellowship Fellows Become a Fellow Schlesinger Library About the Library Research Services Collections Visit the Library News & Ideas Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators Toggle search About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Opportunities For Students For Researchers For Educators About Give Media Harvard and Slavery Radcliffe Institute For Advanced Study research exploration ingenuity imagination collaboration creation impact Advanced Study Toggle animation The Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University—known as Harvard Radcliffe Institute—is one of the world’s leading centers for interdisciplinary exploration. We bring students, scholars, artists, and practitioners together to pursue curiosity-driven research, expand human understanding, and grapple with questions that demand insight from across disciplines. Quick Links Radcliffe’s History: From College to Institute About the Institute Our Work By the Numbers Fellows 1,111 Radcliffe fellowships awarded since the Institute’s founding Public Events 30,104 Number of people to attend Harvard Radcliffe Institute public events (virtually) in the 2020–2021 academic year Schlesinger Library Collections 898,715 Pages of historical material digitized and made available to researchers since 2015 Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows The Harvard Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program offers scholars and practitioners in the humanities, sciences, social sciences, and arts—as well as writers, journalists, and others—a rare opportunity to pursue their work in a vibrant interdisciplinary community. From robotic fish to a novel-in-progress inspired by Amelia Earhart, the 2022–2023 class of fellows will come from 14 countries to pursue an incredible range of important projects. Read Full Announcement Report of the Presidential Committee on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery The report of the Presidential Committee on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery documents the University’s ties to slavery—direct, financial, and intellectual—and offers seven recommendations that will guide the work of reckoning and repair now beginning. Read the Report Highlights: Women, Gender, and Society 01 / 07 Slide left Slide right Radcliffe Day 2021: “Achieving Gender Equity in the United States” Gender Rights in the Time of Pandemic (Why) Reporting the Voices of African Women and Girls Matters It's Complicated: 375 Years of Women at Harvard Fifty Years after The Feminine Mystique Game Changers: Sports, Gender, and Society A Woman's Place at the Harvard Observatory Watch more videos from our Women, Gender, and Society playlist. Events 01 / 02 Slide left Slide right 04 Apr 2022 01 Oct 2022 exhibition Out for Blood: Feminine Hygiene to Menstrual Equity 14 Feb 2022 02 Jul 2022 exhibition Gala Porras-Kim: Precipitation for an Arid Landscape See All Events News & Ideas Harvard Radcliffe Institute Awards 2022 Fay Prize for Outstanding Theses Harvard Radcliffe Institute Announces 2022–2023 Fellows Harvard’s Walking Tour App Highlights Overlooked History Some of Boston’s Legacy of Slavery is Hidden in Plain Sight The Prison as Petri Dish Zooming the Archives Constance Baker Motley, Then and Now In Process: Adrienne Kennedy Papers and Dorothy I. Height Papers Follow Us Instagram Twitter Tomorrow, May 27, we celebrate Radcliffe Day 2022, when we will award the Radcliffe Medal to the nationally renowned civil rights lawyer and scholar Sherrilyn Ifill. The festivities will open with a panel, “Higher Education Access and the American Workforce,” which will will consider ways in which to build an educational system that is accessible and equitable and that enables students of all backgrounds, interests, and abilities to secure stable livelihoods in a changing workforce. Learn more about the day, including how to watch the live webcast, by clicking on the Linktree in our bio. Photo 1: Ifill at the LDF 31st National Equal Justice Awards Dinner in November 2017. Photo by Dave Kotinsky/Getty Images for NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. Photo 2: Ifill and our 2019 Radcliffe Medalist, Dolores Huerta, in 2022. Stefanie Keenan/Getty Images for TIME #RadDay22 #sherrilynifill #RadcliffeMedal #Harvard #RadcliffeInstitute #law #education #opportunity View this post on Instagram Three Harvard seniors were honored today by Harvard Radcliffe Institute with the prestigious Captain Jonathan Fay Prize, annually awarded for the very best theses of Harvard College’s graduating class. Their work was selected from among 73 Hoopes Prize–winning projects. Zelin Liu (center left) translated and used archeology to reinterpret rarely translated Latin text. Ethan Seder (far left) invented CrashPak, an airbag for cyclists that could revolutionize bicycle safety. And Benjamin P. Wenzelberg (far right) composed a joyous Joycean opera. Each is pictured here with Radcliffe Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin. Congratulations to these brilliant soon-to-be grads! 📸 Kevin Grady/Harvard Radcliffe Institute View this post on Instagram Harvard Radcliffe Institute today announced its 2022–2023 fellows, a cohort that brings ambitious projects and exciting possibilities to Radcliffe and the wider Harvard community—from fiction and art to bold innovations like a robotic fish that gives biologists an unfiltered view of aquatic behavior and algorithms to provide real-time interventions for substance abuse, mental illness, or heart disease. The Harvard Radcliffe Institute Fellowship Program, now in its 22nd year, offers scholars and practitioners in the humanities, sciences, social sciences, and arts—as well as writers, journalists, and others—a rare opportunity to pursue their work in a vibrant interdisciplinary community. The read the announcement and see the full list of fellows, see the Linktree in our bio. View this post on Instagram Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago The words of my friend & colleague ⁦@eji_org⁩ founder & Executive Director Bryan Stevenson are always gold to me. His remarks today….I will treasure in my heart forever. ⁦@RadInstitute⁩ View on Twitter Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago Among the most lovely aspects of a day filled with dizzying moments was the chance to spend some time w/the incredible ⁦@maddow⁩.Having her deliver the testimonial for my receipt of the Radcliffe Medal was surreal,overwhelming, and such a high honor. @RadInstitute⁩ View on Twitter Radcliffe Institute Retweeted Sherrilyn Ifill @Sifill_LDF 4 days ago What a day! With the amazing, brilliant (soon to be Justice) Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson, who attended today’s ⁦@RadInstitute⁩ Day program. View on Twitter Back to top B a c k t o t o p Get the latest Radcliffe news delivered to your inbox Enter your e-mail address Continue Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Harvard University 10 Garden Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions Give Now Contact Visit Careers Housing Meeting Spaces Site Map Digital Accessibility Accessibility Harvard University Policies Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us onInstagram Subscribe to our RSS feed Visit our LinkedIn page Visit our YouTube channel © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College