Skip to main content Menu Audiences Clemson Home CECAS Home Department Home Resources A-Z Index Calendar Campus Maps Phonebook Apply Now Make a Gift About Academics People Research & Innovation News Contact News Brian Booth selected by the CU-PRISMA Innovation Fund Drs. Booth and O'Connell have been selected for funding via CU-PRISMA Innovation Fund for their proposal entitled "Optimization of Oscillating Electric Fields Delivery to treat Cancer." Clemson students named finalists for Pay it Forward Clemson students Trina Pham of Mauldin, S.C., Micah Jordan of Easley, S.C, and Aiden Tombuelt of Spartanburg, S.C., were named finalists for their project The Party Enamel. The project explores ways to improve dental outcomes for rural South Carolinians. Pay it Forward is a scholarship competition that seeks to recognize current rural challenges in the state and propose viable solutions. Each team will split $1,000 scholarships. The winning team will go on to win the top award of $5,000. Read more Renee Cottle published in The CRISPR Journal special edition The Cottle Group’s study demonstrated electroporation to deliver Cas9 ribonucleoproteins into primary hepatocytes as a highly efficient and potentially safe approach for therapeutic liver-directed gene editing and production of liver disease models. Read more New research underscores South Carolina’s growing strength as a biomedical research hub South Carolina is strengthening its position as a hub for high-impact biomedical research with a new multi-million-dollar project that undergirds the long-standing partnership between Clemson University and the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) and loops in crucial support from the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Read more Martine LaBerge receives South Carolina Life Sciences Hall of Fame Award Martine LaBerge of Clemson University is the newest recipient of the South Carolina Life Sciences Hall of Fame Award, the latest in a string of high honors recognizing her contributions to the bioengineering community in the state and beyond. Read more New simulators could help medical professionals prepare for the day it really counts Singapogu, an assistant professor of bioengineering, works with a team of graduate students and collaborators from around the country to develop new simulators aimed at taking medical education to the next level. Read more Jeremy Mercuri featured in Arthoscopy - The Journal of Arthoscopic and Relted Surgery Autograft Long Head Biceps Tendon Can Be Used as a Scaffold for Biologically Augmenting Rotator Cuff Repairs Purpose: We create a viable, mechanically expanded autograft long head biceps tendon (LHBT) scaffold for biologically augmenting the repair of torn rotator cuffs. Read more Naren Vyavahare, Clemson Bioengineering’s Hunter Endowed Chair and Professor of Bioengineering, is among innovators recognized by the South Carolina Department of Commerce for exemplifying relentless pursuit of transformational ideas. Angela Alexander-Bryant receives NSF CAREER Award Ten faculty members in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences are starting the new academic year with a fresh infusion of research dollars after winning some of the nation’s most prestigious awards for junior faculty members. Nine have received CAREER awards from the National Science Foundation, and one has secured an Early Career Research grant from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science. Altogether, the awards represent more than $5.6 million in funding across seven departments, all announced during the 2020-21 funding period. Research topics fall in a variety of categories, ranging from artificial intelligence and quantum computing to health innovation and advanced materials. Read more Rene Cottle: ASGCT Underrepresented Population Fellowship Award in Gene and Cell Therapy for Any Indication American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy gave its Underrepresented Population Fellowship Award in Gene and Cell Therapy for Any Indication to Rene Cottle, Assistant Professor of Bioengineering. According to ASGCT, the awardee is chosen from groups underrepresented in the scientific workforce, including racial and ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities, and those from disadvantaged backgrounds. ASGCT is committed to addressing workforce disparities by providing opportunities for professional development in biomedical research for underrepresented groups. The award supports research for a year. Applications were evaluated on the following criteria: - Significance, innovation, and originality of the proposed project - Appropriateness, feasibility, and adequacy of proposed project within the award timeline - Focus on basic, translational, or clinical research of gene and cell therapy for oncology indications - Applicant's qualifications, experience, and commitment to a career in gene and cell therapy - The contribution the project results will offer to the field Lauren Davis selected for Astronaut Scholarship If education were a spaceship, Lauren Davis of Clemson University would be launching into the wild blue yonder with three big rockets propelling her upwards. Read more Naren Vyavahare recognized by the South Carolina Department of Commerce Naren Vyavahare, Clemson Bioengineering’s Hunter Endowed Chair and Professor of Bioengineering, is among innovators recognized by the South Carolina Department of Commerce for exemplifying relentless pursuit of transformational ideas. Click the link below to view the Scribble Season 3 Trailer. Scribble Season 3 Trailer Renee Cottle Wins Pinnacle Research Award in Liver Disease The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases Foundation (AASLD) selected Renee Cottle, associate professor, to receive a 2021 Pinnacle Research Award. This three-year, $300,000 award funds Cottle’s work on nonviral delivery of CRISPR-Cas9 into hepatocytes for liver repopulation using acetaminophen selection. According to AASLD, the three-year basic science award provides young scientists with support for their research to bridge the gap between completion of research training and attainment of status as an independent research scientist. The additional research experience provided by this award is intended to enable young scientists to successfully compete for research awards from national sources, particularly the National Institutes of Health. The Pinnacle Research Award is intended to develop the potential of outstanding young scientists and encourage research in liver physiology and disease. Individuals who are already well-established in the field are not eligible for this award Clemson Tigers help drive Life Sciences in South Carolina In South Carolina, life sciences are booming, driven by an expanding base of diverse companies, outstanding research universities like Clemson, excellent healthcare systems, a rapidly emerging innovation ecosystem and the leadership of SCBIO. A recent study documents that life sciences in South Carolina involves over 850 firms in 42 of 46 counties and generates a $12 billion annual economic impact: Life sciences, the fastest-growing segment of the state’s knowledge economy, is thriving globally. Read more 2021 Bioengineering Award Recipients The College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Science as well as the Department of Bioengineering have completed the award selections for 2021. We are proud to announce the winners of these awards and congratulate them for their hard work and accomplishments. Read more 7 Awarded NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Seven Clemson University students have been awarded the 2021 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, a highly competitive grant aimed at building future scientific and engineering leaders. Six others received Honorable Mentions. Read more ‘Homegrown science’ highlights Clemson University’s increasing strength in biomedical research Clemson University is showing its growing strength in biomedical research with the publication of a new paper that describes a way of measuring three-dimensional extracellular diffusion. All 10 of the co-authors in the Nature Communications paper are faculty, students or graduates from the Clemson University-Medical University of South Carolina Bioengineering Program. The overwhelming Clemson presence on the team shows that years of local and federal investment in biomedical research are paying off, said Hai Yao, who is the senior author, Ernest R. Norville Endowed Chair at Clemson and associate chair for the joint bioengineering program. Read more The 'Ultimate Clemson Ambassador Babinchak arrived at Clemson with an interest in biology and engineering, as well as the drive, resilience and attitude to be successful. Clemson provided the knowledge, opportunities and mentors to help her discover her strengths and identify her ultimate career goal: medical device sales. She recently accepted a summer internship with Arthrex, a global medical device company that develops products and procedures to advance minimally invasive orthopedics. She’ll be a Sterilization and Biosafety intern at the company’s headquarters in Naples, Fla. Read more Delphine Dean receives one of bioengineering’s high honors One of bioengineering’s top honors is going to a Clemson University professor who has played a leading role in South Carolina’s response to COVID-19, has led efforts to develop medical devices for low-resource settings and has advised top lawmakers on issues ranging from the pandemic to diversity in healthcare professions. Delphine Dean, the Ron and Jane Lindsay Family Innovation Professor, is among the newest members of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering’s (AIMBE) College of Fellows. Read more Clemson grants $125,000 to support COVID-19 research Five teams of researchers have received funding to develop tests and strategies that Clemson University and the community can use to continue fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The projects aim to develop new long-lasting sanitizing solutions, faster diagnostics tests and additional tools to more accurately predict COVID-19 spread and severity, among other solutions. Read more Projects led by Bioengineers win InnoVision Awards Three projects, all led by endowed professors in the College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences, won awards that recognize innovation in South Carolina. Read more Booth, O’Connell awarded Transformative Research Seed Grant A proposal by Brian Booth, Ph.D., and John O'Connell, M.D., of Prisma Health was selected for funding via PrismaHealth’s Transformative Research Seed Grant mechanism. The Health Sciences Center at PrismaHealth funds life-changing health services research that aligns with Prisma Health’s purpose statement. The grant will support optimization of oscillating electric field delivery in tissue culture with the goal of more safely and effectively eradicating deposits of metastatic cancer in combination with other proven cancer therapies. The Class of ’39 Award for Excellence Delphine Dean, Ron and Jane Lindsay Family Innovation Professor, was honored February 9, 2021, at an unveiling ceremony in the Carillon Gardens, where she was presented with the Class of ’39 medal. Dean’s induction as a member of the class will be held in the Heritage Gardens, part of the South Carolina Botanical Garden. Read more Dabo's All In Team Foundation has again funded Brian Booth’s research into cancer Research Interests Led by Delphine Dean, Clemson University researchers create cutting-edge solutions to COVID-19 A new Clemson University lab that researchers are calling “a cutting-edge solution to help fight COVID-19” could be stocked with 13 sample-handling robots and have a staff of about 50 students fully trained as early as November. Read more Lauren Davis selected as a Beckman Scholar Undergraduate Lauren Davis, has been selected to participate in the Beckman Scholars Program. This prestigious recognition is made possible by the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation. Read more Students design COVID-19 protection device for less than $100 A few supplies available at just about any hardware store for less than $100 can be assembled into a device that helps keep COVID-19 patients from infecting the healthcare providers who take care of them, a group of Clemson University researchers said. Read more CUBEInC contributes to Clemson’s recognition for innovation in engineering education Clemson University students and faculty have always known “there’s something in these hills,” and now the rest of the world is starting to understand, too. Read more Congratulations 2020 Graduates! Help BIOE celebrate our Spring 2020 Graduates! Read more Naren Vyavahare Cofounds TGen Tech Naren Vyavahare, CTO of TGen Tech,co-founded the start-up with CEO Ajay Houde. Focused on pediatric applications of technologies to improve soft tissue healing, the company’s mission is to enable healthier lives for children and adults worldwide. Read more Clemson University Freshmen Designing UVC Light Device To Help Protect Checkout Clerks Two Clemson University freshmen are thinking outside the box– and shining a light inside it– to combat COVID-19 at the grocery store. Read more Ideas-To-Products (I2P) Program Awardee, Hai Yao, Ph.D. Congratulations to Hai Yao for winning proof-of-concept funding through the XLerator Network's I2P Grant Program! Read more Elastrin Therapeutics Elastrin Therapeutics is a biotech startup with technologies to restore hardened and damaged arteries and tissue by targeting the elastic fiber that makes them work. Read more SC universities, hospitals join forces to develop coronavirus antibody test Delphine Dean, Sarah Harcum and Terri Bruce, BIOE faculty members, are volunteering their services to develop the antibody test. Read more Ying Mei in Nature Biomedical Engineering: Simulated Heart Attack Researchers have developed a new way of simulating heart attacks in a lab and then using the engineered tissue to screen drugs that show promise for treating patients with heart damage, according to a new article in the journal Nature Biomedical Engineering. Read more Two presidents with one goal: Supporting Clemson University staff Janeen Putman reflects on her year as president of Staff Senate as she passes the gavel on. Read more Award-Winning Students! By Tammy Rothell, Undergraduate Student Services Coordinator Read more Three Bioengineers awarded 2020 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships Read more Melinda Harman: A Solution to Cleaning N95 Masks Harman is exploring how hospitals could wash and sanitize medical masks. Read more Jennifer Woodell-May: Orthopedic Research Society Connect ORS Women’s Leadership Forum has asked Jennifer Woodell-May ’01, ‘96 to provide insights on her career and experiences. Read more >>>View More Bioengineering News News News Archive Seminars Newsletters COVID-19 Response Get Connected Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram BioE Zoom Backgrounds Copyright © Clemson University Department of Bioengineering | 301 Rhodes Research Center, Clemson, SC 29634-0905 (864) 656-3051 | Email Us