Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Dean of Students right arrow down arrow Advisory Council right arrow down arrow Advisory Council Application Staff CARE Team right arrow down arrow Community Resources Temporary Assistance Information & Request Signs of Distress & What You Can Do Emergency Funds right arrow down arrow Bearcat Emergency Fund UC Student Emergency Fund Safe Apartment Communication Response Team BCP and Resource Center (Bearcats Pantry) right arrow down arrow Intake Form Donate Volunteer Available Items/Request Quick Facts Nutrition Info Community Resources Upcoming Drives Ambassador Program Home » Campus Life » Dean of Students » BCP and Resource Center (Bearcats Pantry) Set Navigation title in component Intake Form Donate Volunteer Available Items/Request Quick Facts Nutrition Info Community Resources Upcoming Drives Ambassador Program BCP and Resource Center (Bearcats Pantry) The UC Bearcats Pantry (BCP) and Resource Center provides free food, hygiene items, cleaning supplies, and professional clothing to students of all backgrounds with food and other insecurities. The pantry also provides meal vouchers that can be used at campus dining halls and To-Go Bags that can be conveniently picked up at locations across campus. Find the Pantry! Upcoming Drives Hours and Closures The BCP will be closed on Monday May 30th in observance of Memorial Day. The BCP will be open during the summer semester. This on a walk-in basis, no appointment is necessary. Service is limited to 1-2 visitors at a time. Summer 2022 Hours: Monday 12PM-4PM Tuesday 10AM-2PM Wednesday 10AM-2PM Thursday 12PM-4PM Friday CLOSED COVID-19 Protocol The BCP is operating as a walk-in service. Access is limited to 1-2 student, faculty, or staff members at a time. By emailing BearcatsPantry@ucmail.uc.edu you can receive details to BCP operations. All visitors are required to wear a mask and use hand sanitizer before entering the pantry. BCP staff members regularly sanitize the shared surfaces. About the BCP Mission Our goal is to assist students with resources in an effort to promote wellness and independence. The BCP is designed to provide supplemental support options to the various insecurities facing students and the Bearcat community. History The Bearcats Pantry is an initiative founded in 2016 by the Assistant Dean of Students, Daniel S. Cummins. With the help of a strong and dedicated committee team and other UC affiliates, the Bearcats Pantry was created. The Bearcats Pantry also became a member of the College and University Food Bank Alliance (CUFBA) which strives to “alleviate the barriers and challenges associated with food insecurity and hunger so that college and university students can remain in school, and ultimately, earn their degrees.” Contact Daniel S. Cummins - Assistant Dean of Students Joy Kostansek - Program Coordinator Idre'sia Leavell, Student Assistant Phone: 513-556-3780 Email: BearcatsPantry@ucmail.uc.edu Join the BCP listserv: Send us an email askign to be added and you will receive regular email updates from the BCP about offerings, hour changes, and more. Location and Directions The Bearcats Pantry (BCP) and Resource Center is located in Stratford Heights Building 16 Rm 007. There is no proof of need required. Please bring a reusable bag if possible! Directions to the BCP: If you are driving on Clifton Ave, turn onto Straight Street then right onto Stratford Ave. If you pass the Deacon building you've gone too far. Building 16 is on the turn around with a dark awning over the door. If you are driving, you may also pull up to the building from Stratford Ave. and park in the turn-around while you visit. If you are on foot, walk to the bottom of the Stratford Heights sidewalk ramp and the building will be on your left. Electronic door buttons are available to enter. The pantry is located on the lower level, which can be accessed via the stairs to the left of the main entrance or the elevator to the right of the main entrance. If you have questions regarding directions, procedures, or hours, you may call 513-556-3780 to speak with a respresentative. UC Blue Ash and UC Clermont both have pantry services operated by staff on those campuses. What to Expect For all BCP services, you will be asked to fill out an intake survey, which will ask for your M#. The intake survey is meant to help the BCP understand the needs of the students it serves, as well as connect you, the student, to more resources available. After completing the intake survey, you will grab a shopping basket and select your items. At the end, you check out just like a grocery store. If possbile for future visits, please bring back the reusable bags. Our goal is for this process to be as easy, quick, and confidential as possible. Other Services Career Closet The Career Closet is part of the main BCP Resource Center and offers free professional clothing to students who are preparing for interviews, internship experiences, or professional classroom presentations. There is a variety of clothing items including suit jackets, pants, ties, dresses, blazers, shoes and other accessories. When a student picks out an outfit, it is theirs to keep. BCP To-Go Locations BCP To-Go bags are located at various sites around campus. Listed below is a complete list of locations: College of Engineering and Applied Sciences - 665 Baldwin Hall, Suite I College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services - Student Services Center, 360 Teachers-Dyer Complex College of Allied Health Sciences - G60 Health Science Building College of Medicine - E-450 Medical Sciences Building College of Nursing - 213 Proctor Hall College of Pharmacy - 169 Kowalewski Hall UC Police Department - 3 Edwards Center UC Blue Ash Student Food Pantry - Academic Advising Office What to Expect After locating a site, you will be directed to a specific office within the designated building. Tell the person in the office that you are here for a BCP To-Go bag. After completing the intake survey, you will be given a prepackaged food bag. Voucher Program Meal Vouchers are for students facing an emergency situation and have not eated a meal. This is for those that need nutrition while on campus and have exhausted all other options. This program is not designed for cases of convenience. Students are eligible to receive three meal vouchers per month. When visiting a voucher site, you will be asked to fill out an intake form and provide your student ID. Students can use these vouchers at UC Main Campus dining halls and at UC Blue Ash Bleecker Street Café. Voucher Distribution Locations On-Campus Assistant Dean of Students Office - Stratford Heights Building 21 Suite 101, by appointment OMBUDS Office - 607 Swift Hall, by appointment The Student Wellness Center - 480 Steger Student Life Center College of Engineering and Applied Sciences - 665 Baldwin Hall, Suite I College of Education, Criminal Justice, & Human Services - Student Services Center, 360 Teachers-Dyer Complex Student Conduct & Community Standards Office - Suite 745 Steger Student Life Center Student Affairs Office - 630 Steger Student Life Center Additional Resources Locker Rooms - Bag storage and the use of showers is available on the bottom level in the Campus Recreation Center. Microwaves - General use microwaves are available in Tangeman University Center (TUC) in the 2nd floor food court area. Tenant Info Project (TIP) - Provides legal information to callers concerning landlord/tenant law. Call (513) 556-0053 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday - Friday. BCP Newsletters Check out the BCP Monthly Newsletter linked below. Subscribe to our listserv to recieve these monthly, along with other program updates. November 2021 BCP Newsletter University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati 2600 Clifton Ave. Cincinnati, OH 45220 513-556-5000 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top