Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Baylor News Online Menu About Baylor News Online Baylor News Digest About Baylor News Digest Baylor News Digest Request Form Baylor News Digest FAQs Campus-Wide Email Schedule Baylor News Stories Baylor News Digest to replace printed Baylor News Baylor News Digest is a new email communication to all faculty, staff and students that will be sent weekly on Wednesdays. Learn More Lenten Devotional Join the Baylor Family in daily devotionals as we prepare to celebrate Resurrection Sunday. Learn More News Read More News May 17, 2022 Listen Up: BU Podcasts for Your Summer Travels Do you and your family have summer travel plans? Take these Baylor podcasts on the road with you. They’re a great way to catch up and stay connected with University news, activities and priorities while on the go and away from campus. Read More May 11, 2022 Celebrating Baylor Commencement More than 3,000 graduates from ten of the University’s colleges and schools will walk the stage at four Commencement ceremonies on Friday and Saturday, May 13 and 14, 2022, at the Ferrell Center. More than 700 of these graduates will receive their master’s or doctoral degrees. Read More May 4, 2022 Return on Investment: Engaged Learning Leads to Record Student Success This spring, a record-shattering number of Baylor University students and their faculty mentors have been honored with some of the most prestigious – and highly competitive – national and international scholarships and awards, reflecting the University’s growing investment in the Office of Engaged Learning (OEL). Read More Apr. 29, 2022 Sexual Assault Awareness Q&A Mito Diaz-Espinoza, Ph.D. examines dynamics surrounding gender, power, and misconceptions surrounding sexual assault and interpersonal violence. Read More Apr. 28, 2022 Promoting Safe and Healthy Relationships It is vital to understand what healthy relationships, stalking and harassment each look like in order to provide the best support to friends or others you are concerned about. Read More Apr. 20, 2022 Green and Gold Weekend Make plans to join the Baylor family on April 21-April 24 for Green and Gold Weekend in Waco! Green and Gold Weekend will feature a first look at the upcoming Baylor Football season during the Green and Gold game. Read More Apr. 6, 2022 5 Reasons to Register for Spring Premiere If you are a high school student or prospective transfer considering Baylor, sign up to attend Baylor Spring Premiere on Saturday, April 9. The event is a chance for students and parents to learn more about what makes Baylor special—without having to leave the house! Read More Apr. 5, 2022 What does it mean to Set the Standard at Baylor? At Baylor, we Set the Standard in being part of the solution when it comes to stopping, intervening and preventing interpersonal violence. The University is reminded of this as we recognize Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April. Read More BaylorNews Online Baylor News is an internal campus news publication for Baylor University faculty and staff. Featured content focuses on important University matters and stories that are of interest to Baylor employees. BaylorNews@baylor.edu Media & Public Relations To find news stories directed and related to the wider Baylor audience, please visit baylor.edu/mediacommunications Submit a Digest ItemSubmit Notice of Death General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Baylor News Online Baylor News Digest About Baylor News Digest Baylor News Digest Request Form Baylor News Digest FAQs Campus-Wide Email Schedule Baylor News Stories