Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Update My Record Careers First time login Login Logout Need help making a gift? Call 866-419-6768 Iowa State Logo Give Now Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give Types of Gifts Gift Policies Forms Gift Planning Areas to Support FundISU Corporation and Foundation Giving Make a Gift News and Stories News Archive Forward Magazine Your Iowa State Newsletter Insights Newsletter COVID-19 FAQs For Donors Donor Services Order of the Knoll Awards Women & Philanthropy Faculty and Staff Cardinal Sheet Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Search Content: Home Who We Are Governance The Iowa State University Foundation is governed by a board of directors, where the university president serves as a director. It is also served by governors who provide additional guidance and advocate for philanthropy at Iowa State and across the country. The foundation also works closely with Iowa State administrators, deans and unit leaders to determine the university’s fundraising priorities. Board of Directors Officers Richard Mahoney - chair Mary Jane Hagenson - vice-chair Ron Hallenbeck - secretary Jim Frein - treasurer Board members Craig Denny Jon Fleming Kathy Howell Barbara Janson Ric Jurgens David Kingland Ted Oberlander Larry Pithan Gary Streit Charles Sukup Terry Tobin Dee Vandeventer Wendy Wintersteen Our active foundation governors volunteer on a variety of committees to help guide the foundation. These committees include: Audit committee Awards committee Board Governance committee Development committee Engagement committee Executive committee Finance committee Gift acceptance committee Governor Membership committee Investment committee Staff Talent committee Home Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are About Governance Leadership Team Financial Information Phone Center: 515-598-2390 Careers Contact Us Careers Iowa State Highlights Reasons to say "THANK YOU" $1,542,356,968 Since the start of the Forever True, For Iowa State campaign, donors like you helped us exceed our historic $1.5 billion goal! “Scholarship support enhances my time at Iowa State and allows me to see the world while also gaining an amazing education.” - Margaret Leligdon, Junior, Civil Engineering Forever True, For Iowa State How to Give News and Stories For Donors Faculty and Staff Who We Are 2505 University Boulevard, P.O. Box 2230, Ames, Iowa 50010-2230, 866.419.6768. Copyright ©2016, Iowa State University Foundation. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Privacy Policy Website Terms of Use Back to Top