Skip to main content Skip to main navigation English Menu About Us Contact Us Stay Connected News Events Advising & Registration English Major Career Possibilities Beall Poetry Festival Armstrong Browning Library Partnerships Study Abroad Undergraduate First-Year Writing Literature Degree Plan Courses Offered Literature Faculty Professional Writing and Rhetoric Degree Plan Secondary Major Courses Faculty Internships Linguistics Degree Plan Careers Courses Faculty Resources Linguistics Club Creative Writing Minor Student Scholarships Student Awards Past Winners Graduate English PhD Degree Policies and Procedures English MA Degree Policies and Procedures Graduate Certificate in Literature and Religion Graduate Faculty Graduate Opportunities Past Winners Graduate Travel Funding Faculty Faculty & Staff Dr. Kara Poe Alexander Ms. Lois Avey Dr. Clay Butler Dr. Katie Calloway Dr. Mona Choucair Dr. Julia E. Daniel Dr. Tim DeJong Dr. Elizabeth Dell Dr. Michael-John DePalma Dr. Melisa Dracos Dr. Alex Engebretson Dr. Luke Ferretter Ms. Tashi Flaig Dr. Tara C. Foley Dr. Sarah Gilbreath Ford Dr. Joe B. Fulton Dr. Kevin J. Gardner Dr. Greg Garrett Dr. TJ Geiger Dr. Ginger Hanchey Dr. Jennifer L. Hargrave Mr. Arna Bontemps Hemenway Dr. Tracy Hoffman Dr. Chloe Honum Dr. Kristi Humphreys Dr. Maurice Hunt Dr. Hope Johnston Dr. Maura Jortner Dr. Nicole Kenley Dr. Joshua King Dr. Sebastian Langdell Dr. Jeannette Marsh Mr. Mark Olsen Dr. Coretta Pittman Dr. Kristen Pond Dr. Richard Rankin Russell Dr. Ryan Sharp Dr. Lisa Shaver Dr. Jacob Shores-Argüello Dr. Lauren Short Dr. Amanda Sigler Dr. Dan Walden Dr. Danielle M. Williams Publications Faithful Deliberation Hollow Palaces Haunted Property Sacred Rhetorical Education in 19th Century America Modernism in the Green A Long, Long Way Hope and Aesthetic Utility in Modernist Literature Courage to See Evil Twins of American Television Harvest Bells Letters of a Long Name Constructing Nineteenth-Century Religion Reforming Women Thomas Hoccleve Mark Twain Under Fire Building Natures Understanding Marilynne Robinson Living with the Living Dead Then Winter The Life Group Building Jerusalem Divine Face in Four Writers Seamus Heaney: An Introduction Imagined Spiritual Communities in Britain's Age of Print Housework and Gender in American Television Boke of the Cyte of Ladyes Entertaining Judgment Seamus Heaney's Regions Elegy on Kinderklavier Tracing Southern Storytelling in Black and White Mapping Christian Rhetorics The Tulip-Flame The Glyph and the Gramophone Modernity, Community, and Place in Brian Friel's Drama The Prodigal Beyond the Pulpit Reconstruction of Mark Twain Sylvia Plath's Fiction Organizations 19CRS 20CRS House of Poetry Linguistics Club Literary Society MRRS Previous Events The Phoenix PWR Organization Sigma Tau Delta University Writing Center Mission and Vision Schedule an Appointment Students with Disabilities Consultations In-Person Tutoring Video Conferences Written Feedback Our Team Staff Graduate Consultants Undergraduate Consultants Join Our Team FAQs Resources for Writers Faculty Services Helpful Writing Handouts Syllabus Statements The UWC in the News UWC Blog Make a Gift English Department An Education in Imaginative Reasoning The Baylor English department is a diverse community of faculty, staff, undergraduate students, and graduate students who share a love for language. We’re interested in what language can tell us about who we are as people and how it can help us be agents of good in the world. We divide our research and courses into three main categories: Literature, Linguistics, and Professional Writing and Rhetoric. Enjoy learning more about us from our website! About Us Apply Now Undergraduate Literature, Linguistics, and Professional Writing and Rhetoric We love our English undergraduates! We offer majors in English Literature, Linguistics, or Professional Writing and Rhetoric. We also offer a minor in Creative Writing. Our students work with top scholars in their fields and benefit from small, discussion-oriented classes. They also enjoy opportunities to test out possible careers, whether through internships or as staff members of The Phoenix, the department’s student-run magazine. Undergraduates Graduate Why Study English? We’re proud of our Ph.D. completion percentage and job placement rate and have been ranked best in the nation for Student Support and Outcomes by the National Research Council. Our graduate faculty offer the M.A. and Ph.D. in literary criticism as well as a certificate in literature and religion. Our graduates are both generalists who can teach a range of courses and specialists with significant books and articles. Graduate Studies Our Faculty Spotlight Dr. Richard Rankin Russell Professor, Graduate Program Director Modern & Contemporary British & Irish Literature, Southern Literature Dr. Elizabeth Dell Senior Lecturer, Literature Program Director American Literature, Women's Studies, Creative Writing - Fiction Dr. Sarah Gilbreath Ford Professor, Director of Beall Poetry Festival Southern Literature, Early American Literature, African American Literature, Literature and Law, American Gothic Literature, Eudora Welty Dr. Sebastian Langdell Assistant Professor Medieval Literature, Literature and Theology, Transnational and Comparative Literatures Dr. Amanda Sigler Assistant Professor British Literature, Modernism, Periodical Studies Dr. Maurice Hunt Research Professor of English Renaissance Literature, Shakespeare and Spenser Dr. Greg Garrett Professor Religion, Race, Culture More Faculty English Department In the News English Professor Receives National Fellowship Dr. Ryan Sharp has been selected as one of twenty-eight Career Enhancement Fellows for the 2022-2023 academic year by the Institute for Citizens & Scholars! Congratulations, Dr. Sharp! Read more about Dr. Sharp and this exciting opportunity at the Baylor A&S blog post linked below. Read More How Poetry Changes the World In conjunction with the Beall Poetry Festival, Ginger Hanchey's class, "How Poetry Changes the World," created poetry installations on campus: writing lines of poetry on windows, chalking poetry on sidewalks, creating a walking trail with QR codes linking to poetry, tying tags with poems on bushes and plants in the garden next to ABL, and handing out stickers with images from poems - filling the campus with poetry. Read More Fall 2022 English Courses Early registration for Summer and Fall 2022 starts next week! Click on the link to check out a full list of the courses being offered in the English department next fall. Read More More News Faculty Publications Thomas Hoccleve Sebastian J. Langdell A new assessment of Thomas Hoccleve's role as a religious author and poetic mediator. Liverpool UP, 2018.Elegy on Kinderklavier Arna Hemenway Stories that explore the profound effects of what it is to lose and be lost. Winner of the 2015 PEN/Hemingway Award. Tracing Southern Storytelling in Black and White Sarah Ford Oral storytelling in the works of black and white Southern writers. University of Alabama Press, 2014.Reforming Women Lisa J. Shaver Examines the emergence of a distinct women's rhetoric in the American Female Moral Reform Society. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2019. More Publications Upcoming Events Jun 1 2022 Apply for alternative loans by this date for upcoming fall/spring semesters. Most alternative loans require 4-6 weeks of processing time. You should determine your eligibility and apply prior to bills being sent to allow adequate processing time. Jun 2 2022 Summer 2022 Minimester term ends/exams Jun 7 2022 Last day to register or add classes for Summer 2022 Session 1 Jun 8 2022 Last day to drop a Summer 2022 Session 1 class without a "W" More Events Connect with us Apply Now Make a Gift Contact Us Location Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About Us Contact Us Stay Connected News Events Advising & Registration English Major Career Possibilities Beall Poetry Festival Armstrong Browning Library Partnerships Study Abroad Undergraduate First-Year Writing Literature Degree Plan Courses Offered Literature Faculty Professional Writing and Rhetoric Degree Plan Secondary Major Courses Faculty Internships For Students Internship Opportunities For Partner Organizations Linguistics Degree Plan Careers Courses LING1305 Faculty Resources Linguistics Club Creative Writing Minor Student Scholarships Student Awards Past Winners Graduate English PhD Degree Policies and Procedures English MA Degree Policies and Procedures Graduate Certificate in Literature and Religion Graduate Faculty Graduate Opportunities Past Winners Graduate Travel Funding Faculty Faculty & Staff Dr. Kara Poe Alexander Ms. Lois Avey Dr. Clay Butler Dr. Katie Calloway Dr. Mona Choucair Dr. Julia E. Daniel Dr. Tim DeJong Dr. Elizabeth Dell Dr. Michael-John DePalma Dr. Melisa Dracos Dr. Alex Engebretson Dr. Luke Ferretter Ms. Tashi Flaig Dr. Tara C. Foley Dr. Sarah Gilbreath Ford Dr. Joe B. Fulton Dr. Kevin J. Gardner Dr. Greg Garrett Dr. TJ Geiger Dr. Ginger Hanchey Dr. Jennifer L. Hargrave Mr. Arna Bontemps Hemenway Dr. Tracy Hoffman Dr. Chloe Honum Dr. Kristi Humphreys Dr. Maurice Hunt Dr. Hope Johnston Dr. Maura Jortner Dr. Nicole Kenley Dr. Joshua King Dr. Sebastian Langdell Dr. Jeannette Marsh Mr. Mark Olsen Dr. Coretta Pittman Dr. Kristen Pond Dr. Richard Rankin Russell Dr. Ryan Sharp Dr. Lisa Shaver Dr. Jacob Shores-Argüello Dr. Lauren Short Dr. Amanda Sigler Dr. Dan Walden Dr. Danielle M. Williams Publications Faithful Deliberation Hollow Palaces Haunted Property Sacred Rhetorical Education in 19th Century America Modernism in the Green A Long, Long Way Hope and Aesthetic Utility in Modernist Literature Courage to See Evil Twins of American Television Harvest Bells Letters of a Long Name Constructing Nineteenth-Century Religion Reforming Women Thomas Hoccleve Mark Twain Under Fire Building Natures Understanding Marilynne Robinson Living with the Living Dead Then Winter The Life Group Building Jerusalem Divine Face in Four Writers Seamus Heaney: An Introduction Imagined Spiritual Communities in Britain's Age of Print Housework and Gender in American Television Boke of the Cyte of Ladyes Entertaining Judgment Seamus Heaney's Regions Elegy on Kinderklavier Tracing Southern Storytelling in Black and White Mapping Christian Rhetorics The Tulip-Flame The Glyph and the Gramophone Modernity, Community, and Place in Brian Friel's Drama The Prodigal Beyond the Pulpit Reconstruction of Mark Twain Sylvia Plath's Fiction Organizations 19CRS 20CRS House of Poetry Linguistics Club Literary Society MRRS Previous Events The Phoenix PWR Organization Sigma Tau Delta University Writing Center Mission and Vision Schedule an Appointment Students with Disabilities Consultations In-Person Tutoring Video Conferences Written Feedback Our Team Staff Graduate Consultants Undergraduate Consultants Join Our Team FAQs Resources for Writers Faculty Services Helpful Writing Handouts Syllabus Statements The UWC in the News UWC Blog Make a Gift