Skip to main content Go to site search Go to primary navigation Go to resources navigation Penn COVID-19 Response » Penn Home Toggle Site Navigation Toggle Site Search Academics More Academics Undergraduate Graduate Schools Global Initiatives Interdisciplinary Online Learning Off-campus Learning Libraries Admissions & Aid Athletics Research & Innovation More Research & Innovation Research Enterprise Research News Life at Penn More Life at Penn Arts & Culture Community Involvement More Community Involvement Penn & Philadelphia Diversity Groups & Organizations Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Safety & Security More Safety & Security Emergency Contacts Emergency Preparedness Spirituality & Religion About More About Introduction to Penn History Facts News, Media, & Communication Services Sustainability FAQ Penn’s Interim President, Wendell Pritchett Trustees & Administration Policies Toggle Site Search Resources Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Visitors A-Z Directory Webmail Services Give to Penn Search Search Close Breadcrumb Home / Academics Academics Undergraduate Penn’s undergraduate students pursue more than 90 majors across four schools. Graduate Penn pioneered professional education in America and continues to set the pace today with outstanding graduate and professional programs. Online Learning Whether you’re looking to advance your career or jumpstart your business, Penn has a program that will enable you to gain the knowledge you need to get there. Penn’s academics are boosted by its inherent culture and ecosystem of innovation. You name it, if it’s cutting-edge, the University’s faculty—and students—have their hands in it. Grounded in the liberal arts and sciences and enriched by the integrated resources of four undergraduate and 12 graduate schools, Penn offers students an unparalleled education informed by inclusivity, intellectual rigor, research, and the impetus to create new knowledge to the benefit of individuals and communities around the world. Penn's 12 Schools Penn’s 12 schools include some of the top-rated undergraduate and graduate programs in the world. View Schools 2021-22 University Catalog The University Catalog provides information for current and prospective students about all of Penn’s undergraduate, master’s, and doctoral programs, as well as academic policies and resources. The Catalog also provides a listing, by subject, of course offerings across the campus at all levels of education. University Catalog Global Initiatives Penn is more global now than at any point in its history. The University seeks to ensure that its students engage meaningfully with the world through courses, internships, and research projects; as well as through their majors and professional specializations. Global Initiatives Penn Libraries Explore Penn’s extensive library collection, research guides and support, special collections, online exhibits, and more. Interdisciplinary Education With all 12 of Penn’s schools on one contiguous campus, it’s often that researchers and students are reaching across boundaries for their work and study. Interdisciplinary opportunities at Penn allow students to express their academic creativity and discover new ways of synthesizing information. Interdisciplinary Education Summer Programs Penn Summer offers Penn students, alumni, high school students, and visiting students opportunities to dive into exciting subjects and get ahead in academic pursuits—on campus, online, or abroad. Summer Programs Office of the Provost Contact 122 College Hall Philadelphia, PA 19104-6303 (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Academic Events Academic Calendar Jun 20 Academic Calendar Juneteenth observed (no classes) All Day Jun 29 Academic Calendar Session I classes end All Day Jun 30 Academic Calendar Session II classes begin All Day Jul 4 Academic Calendar Independence Day observed (no classes) All Day Aug 5 Academic Calendar Session II & 11-Week Session classes end All Day Aug 24 Academic Calendar Move-In for First Year Students All Day Academic Calendar Philadelphia, PA 19104 Telephone: (215) 898-5000 Contact Us Maps Parking Navigate Alumni Athletics Diversity Health Care Libraries Online Learning Penn Global Penn's Heritage As America’s first university, Penn has a history that dates back to 1740 and shares many ties with the colonial city of Philadelphia and the birth of our nation. Our History Disclaimer Emergency Services Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help Report Copyright Infringement Back To Top