Skip to main content. ADVISORY | COVID-19 Information × kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites News Archive Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Centers, Institutes and Cores Our Experts Research News Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Related Links: Student Research Forum Summer Research Training Program Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Diversity and Inclusion Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar News Maps & Contact Information Make a Gift News Archive KU Medical Center biochemist brings interactive science to area middle schools With help from local teachers and other members in his department, scientist Aron Fenton is breaking down stereotypes about scientists and sharing stories of science as a career. May 9, 2022 | Anne Christiansen-Bullers Experiments for middle school students involved simple ingredients such as this beaker of water. Through a videolink to classrooms, Aron Fenton, Ph.D., led the students to float a needle in water to prove a scientific principle. Picture this. You’re in middle school, on your way to your required science class, when you see a sewing needle and a cup of water on your lab table. We’re sewing in science? And getting thirsty while doing it? But you would have guessed wrong. Instead, what you see is an experiment that explains the concept of molecules at the water/air interface. But you don’t know that yet. Via video, you learn from a professor at a university why a dry needle floats in water. But, as you discover, a needle sinks in soapy water. Hmmm. And maybe, just maybe, when it comes time to sign up for high school classes, you won’t be so intimidated by the science offerings. And maybe you’ll sign up for some. That’s the thinking behind a series of classes that were offered to middle school students across the metro. From Olathe to Kansas City, Kansas, science classrooms tuned into see Aron Fenton, Ph.D., perform simple but interesting experiments they could replicate at their lab tables. Then they could hear one of Fenton’s guests, fellow professors at the University of Kansas Medical Center, explain why they loved science and decided to make it their career. Steering committee helps with details The program finished its second year in 2021-2022 and reached 900 students. Fenton, a professor of biochemistry and molecular biology in KU School of Medicine, credits the origin of the program to members of the Fenton laboratory. Braelyn Page, a technician and applicant for the MD/PhD program at KU Medical Center, took an especially strong interest in the program. When Fenton indicated interest as well, they began developing the program with a steering committee comprised of area educators. One committee member, Betsy Lawrence, is a science teacher at Summit Trial Middle School in Olathe. She was pursuing her doctorate degree at in the KU Department of Curriculum and Teaching, so she decided to monitor the influence of the program on middle-schoolers. Aron Fenton, Ph.D. “This program is super important for our middle school students, especially so they can start seeing themselves as scientists,” Lawrence said. “The more realistic opportunities that we can give our students to themselves in the place of a scientist – to be able to experience what an actual research scientist does – gives them a better perspective of the job.” Reaching out to the community Students in Betsy Lawrence's science class follow Fenton's instructions for the experiment. Contributed photo. Douglas Huffman, Ph.D., professor of science education in the Department of Curriculum and Teaching on KU’s campus in Lawrence, Kansas, said this project aligns with the National Science Education Standards, which were recently updated. These standards, established by the National Research Council, are a set of guidelines and goals for science teachers to consider when planning their lessons. “The new standards have community outreach and relationships with the community as a larger portion of the new standards,” Huffman explained. “It’s just one reason why we’re so glad to see Dr. Fenton reach out.” The program also serves to introduce students to scientists of different races, ethnicities and genders than that of the stereotypical white male scientist. But that stereotype has some grounding in reality, since the National Science Foundation discovered white men make up 49% of employed scientists and engineers. “There’s also a shortage of scientists and engineers nationally,” Huffman said. “This program introduces students to the fact that science is not out of their reach. They learn, ‘OK, I can do this.’” And by welcoming students from multiple districts and including guest scientists that represent diversity, Fenton is addressing a diverse demographic in hopes of inspiring more students currently underrepresented in science. “Diversity as a concept was built in. The university has minorities in science programs, but we wanted to make this accessible to everyone,” he said. ‘We’re building new interactions’ Fenton said he didn’t want to be just another “Skype a Scientist,” a program that brings scientists into a classroom via videolink to talk about what they do. He wanted something more interactive. “I spent hours on YouTube, going through experiments we could do. Some of them are really fun,” he said. “But this isn’t about competing with YouTube,” Fenton said. “The real selling point is that we’re scientists interacting with the students. We’re not building new experiments. We’re building new interactions.” That approach has meant a lot more coordination with school districts and teachers than a simple (but passive) lecture or even a question-and-answer session. Fenton and his guest scientists communicate the experiments to teachers far in advance so they can set up the needed items in advance of the videolink into the classrooms. But some adaption is allowed. “Last year, we had students floating nails instead of needles because they couldn’t find needles. We found them floating tacks – one of them in even got a penny to float,” he said. Why middle school? When Fenton and his team were deciding which classrooms might best benefit from the program, the steering committee of educators agreed on middle school. Huffman said that middle school is a great time to introduce science as a career. Once students are in high school, they’re often already segregated into career preparation fields, he explained. At the end of the program, students are given the opportunity to provide feedback to Fenton and his team. Lawrence said her class feedback was “very positive.” “All the experiments that Dr. Fenton led, the teacher could have easily done,” Lawrence explained. “But it presents a different perspective when another person is leading them through it.” See Related Stories in School of Medicine, Outreach Newsroom Media Inquiries 913-617-8698 khawes@kumc.edu News and Media Relations Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Equal Opportunity Statement Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab © 2022 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. Inquiries regarding our non-discrimination policies should be directed to the Director for the Equal Opportunity & Academic Compliance Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-5964, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Inquiries regarding the University Sexual Harassment Policy should be directed to the Title IX Coordinator at 913-588-8011. Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.