Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Meadows School of the Arts Areas of Study Admissions About Menu Search SMU Meadows School of the Arts Support Meadows Support Meadows Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala At SMU Meadows, we celebrate the gift of imagining all of the things that a community of scholars, thinkers, artists, and dreamers can do for the greater good - locally, regionally and globally. In your generosity, you will be a part of the school’s excellence. Through the contributions of donors, The Second Century Campaign is providing support for three major priorities that will define SMU’s second century – Student Quality, Faculty and Academic Excellence, and the Campus Experience. Learn more about the importance of each campaign priority that ensures SMU Meadows School of the Arts' continued growth and success. Below are a few examples of how you can make a contribution to Meadows and The Second Century Campaign: Student Quality SMU has proven that investment in scholarships and student recruitment and retention strengthens the University's ability to compete nationally for top students. Founded in 2008, the Meadows Scholars Program has enabled the Meadows School of the Arts to recruit the most highly sought after students in the arts and communications. Faculty and Academic Experience A great university is shaped by scholars who create and share knowledge. Top educational institutions also require buildings with up-to-date classrooms, laboratories and technology that make it possible for faculty to conduct research and students to learn. Endowed gifts to the Meadows School of the Arts provide long-term funding for Department Chairs in key areas of excellence ranging from Music and Art History to Arts Entrepreneurship. Capital gifts provide funding for much needed infrastructure projects, like cutting-edge post-production labs for our Film and Media Arts students. Annual gifts in support of any of the school’s 10 divisions provide key operating support and discretionary funds that enhance a student’s academic experience — distinguishing a Meadows degree from other competitive institutions such as Harvard, Northwestern and the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. Campus Experience The campus experience is a major strength of an SMU education, supporting academic endeavors and fostering a sense of community and pride. Gifts to the Dean’s Fund help differentiate the Meadows experience from other schools across the nation and around the globe by providing student research grants, travel opportunities, audition support and the latest digital technology and equipment available. These programs offer a personalized teaching approach and expand student experiences outside of the traditional classroom — allowing graduates to take what they have learned and “start a movement” within their communities. We are grateful for your gift, which is vital in the Meadows School of the Arts’ ongoing efforts to attract and retain students of the highest caliber— tomorrow’s leaders in the arts and communications. Thank you for enriching not only the life of a student, but also the life of our artistic community. Support from alumni, parents and friends like you reflects the strength of the Meadows School of the Arts. Thank you for making an impact— make your gift today! Make your Gift Today! Meadows School of the Arts Meadows School of the Arts 6101 Bishop Dallas, Texas 75205 214-768-2000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 750356 Dallas, Texas 75275-0356 Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Apply Now Visit Us Back to top © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Areas of Study Advertising Art Art History Arts Management & Arts Entrepreneurship CCPA Creative Computation Dance Film & Media Arts Journalism Music Theatre Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships And Financial Aid Internships & Collaborations Visit Meadows Contact Meadows Admission Dual Admission About A Statement of Our Values Mission History Message From The Dean Dean's Executive Council Student Academic Services Academic Affairs Contact SMU Meadows Faculty Directory Faculty/Staff Bio Submission Form Facilities Resources Employment Meadows Graduate Student Council Site Map Report a Web Problem News and Events Art History After Hours Virtual Season Subscribers News Featured Media Our Calendar Performing Arts Season Music Recitals Events Newsletter Meadows Events Parking Directions & Public Transportation Meadows Recognition Ceremony The Movement Mission Ignite Arts Dallas SMU DataArts Meadows Prize Arts Entrepreneurship International Opportunities Interdisciplinary Studies Research and Creativity Alumni Submit Your Information Alumni News Alumni in the Media Alumni on LinkedIn Support Meadows Contact Development The Meadows Scholars Program Meadows Gala Apply NowVisit UsGive Menu Search Search Submit Menu Search