Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Search BC.edu Links Agora Portal Directory A to Z Listing Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Students Parents & Guardians Alumni Faculty & Staff BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close BC News > Campus & Community > Around Campus > Tree sculpture A second life A local sculptor transforms an ailing oak tree into lasting campus artwork Artist Ken Packie with his finished sculpture of the Holy Family. Photos by Lee Pellegrini. A centuries-old oak tree on the edge of Boston College’s Brighton Campus was removed this past spring due to failing health—but rather than disappear altogether, its trunk has undergone an unusual transformation. Ken Packie, a Massachusetts artist who specializes in wood sculptures, was commissioned by the University to carve the tree’s nearly six-foot-wide base into a three-dimensional portrayal of the Holy Family, celebrating Boston College’s Jesuit Catholic heritage and recognizing the historical significance of the Brighton Campus. The new sculpture, which Packie completed in July, is now visible from Commonwealth Avenue as motorists and pedestrians approach the McMullen Museum of Art. (Those who continue into Newton will be treated to another of Packie’s creations: a marathon runner carved from a dying maple tree.) It took Packie just over a month to create the sculpture, which he said was the most challenging assignment of his career. “It’s probably the most ambitious thing I’ve tried, because it’s the human form, and everything about this subject matter is so important,” he said. “I’m not trying just to emulate the form, I’m trying to think about what it means to everybody.” For Landscape Planning Director Regina Bellavia, whose team maintains roughly 4,600 trees across the University’s three campuses, preserving the oak’s memory through art is a fitting tribute. She estimates that the tree was around 200 years old when it was taken down, making it older than the buildings and roadways surrounding it. “I could imagine, historically, before they cut Commonwealth Avenue through, there were probably many more of these oak trees, and this one happened to survive,” she said. “I’m grateful we were able to witness it for as long as we did.” Bellavia had been tracking the oak tree’s declining health for nearly a decade, consulting with arborists and taking steps to extend its longevity without risking the safety of people walking and driving nearby. Six years ago, the tree’s canopy was cut back significantly to reduce strain on its trunk, after a resistograph test revealed high levels of decaying wood. In the years since, Bellavia noticed carpenter ants alongside the back of the tree, where the bark had long since fallen off. In its declining state, arborists feared the centuries-old oak tree could fall directly into Commonwealth Avenue. Last November, a second arborist recommended that the tree be removed due to the “significant amount of dead trunk area and potential for future failure.” If it fell, the tree would have crashed directly into Commonwealth Avenue, posing a risk to cars, pedestrians, and subway riders. “No one ever wants to take down a tree this big, but they are living things so they have a lifespan,” said Bellavia. “We decided it was time.” Once the canopy was removed, Packie began work transforming the trunk into a work of art. To create his pieces, many of which are inspired by nature, he uses only three tools: a chainsaw, chisel, and blowtorch. As an added challenge, when Packie began carving, he discovered extensive rot within the stump, requiring him to replace sections of wood as he worked. In late July, Packie gave the sculpture a final coat of protective varnish before taking down his scaffolding and preparing to move on to his next project. With every commission, he takes joy in watching his subjects emerge from wood. “It’s an evolution as the piece unfolds,” he explained. “[I’m] taking something that was alive and giving it a second life in a different form.” Alix Hackett | University Communications | August 2021 From tree stump to work of art The oak before the canopy was removed. Week 1: Rough forms begin to take shape. Ken Packie at work high above Commonwealth Avenue. Packie uses a chisel to carve the facial features of Baby Jesus. The commission was "probably the most ambitious thing I’ve tried," Packie said. Packie's toolbox. Carving Saint Joseph's face after replacing a section of rotted wood. The final step: applying a coat of protective varnish. The oak before the canopy was removed. Week 1: Rough forms begin to take shape. Ken Packie at work high above Commonwealth Avenue. Packie uses a chisel to carve the facial features of Baby Jesus. The commission was "probably the most ambitious thing I’ve tried," Packie said. Packie's toolbox. Carving Saint Joseph's face after replacing a section of rotted wood. The final step: applying a coat of protective varnish. The oak before the canopy was removed. Week 1: Rough forms begin to take shape. Ken Packie at work high above Commonwealth Avenue. Packie uses a chisel to carve the facial features of Baby Jesus. The commission was "probably the most ambitious thing I’ve tried," Packie said. Packie's toolbox. Carving Saint Joseph's face after replacing a section of rotted wood. The final step: applying a coat of protective varnish. « » Back To Top Back To Top Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College