Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Office of Financial Aid Main Navigation Undergraduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant FSEOG TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Dream Act Service Incentive Grant California Emergency Grant Chafee Grant SUG EOP Grant MCS Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Dream Loan Federal Work Study Scholarships Credential Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement Parent FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Pell Grant TEACH Grant Cal Grant California Emergency Grant Federal Work Study SUG Golden State Teacher Grant Subsidized & Unsubsidized Parent Plus Scholarships Dream Loan Graduate Show Extended Applying FAFSA Dream Act Cost of Attendance Disbursement FAQs Maintaining Eligibility SAP Repeated Coursework R2T4 | Withdrawing Unit Cap Type of Awards Golden State Teacher Grant TEACH Grant SUG Unsubsidized Graduate Plus Federal Work Study Scholarships Dream Loan Special Groups Show Extended Study Abroad Year Round Students Summer Forms & Appeals Contact Us Parent FAQs Consumer Information Disbursement FA Terms & Conditions FAFSA Dream Act Freshmen Guide Transfer Guide CSUF Net Price Calculator Applying for Financial Aid We recommend all students to follow the timeline to complete their financial aid application and to monitor their email for further information. Make sure to complete your application to maximize your financial aid eligibility by March 2nd of every year as it is the priority deadline. We also recommend those who are thinking of attending graduates programs, but are unsure when to complete the financial aid application as well by March 2nd, as financial aid institutional resource eligibility can be different between universities. An overview of the timeline is below, please click on the specific links under Applying for Aid to get detailed information on the FAFSA or Dream Act application. CSUF School Code: 001137 For Additional Help with your CDA/FAFSA application, visit our YouTube Channel. CSUF Office of Financial Aid YouTube Channel October 1st - Complete Your Financial Aid Application Apply for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or California Dream Act Application (CADAA) Gathering the Documents Needed to Apply Avoid Common Errors New Students Completing the FAFSA for the First-Time Needs to Create a FSA ID Create a FSA ID for Yourself (Student) and Your Parent Late November - Application Download During this time your financial aid application is downloaded into our system. Three key areas that need to match on your financial aid application with the Office of Registration and Records are: Social Security Number Date of Birth * First and Last Name * If any of the three key areas does not match between your FAFSA and the Office of Registration and Records we cannot download your application. * Dream Act applicants we match #2, and # 3 only of the Three Key Areas. Important Note -- For our prospective students, admittance to the university is required for us to download your financial aid application. January - Documentation Request During this month or early, the Office of Financial Aid, places required documents on the student center 'to-do-list' for verification. These documents are required to verify students eligibility. An email is sent to the student's school email notifying them of the verification document. Check your Student Center for Requested Documents Print and Complete as instructed on the form As requested on the form Sign and Date Submit the form to the Office of Financial Aid @ GH-146 April - Document Deadline & Newly Admitted Student Award Submit all verification document by the due date. Late submission after the due date is allow, however, priority eligibility is lost. We encourage students not to delay in submitting their documents. Newly Admitted Undergraduates Students Estimated Financial Aid is awarded prior to Experience CSUF: Become A Titan. Your estimated financial aid award is not your actual awards. Estimated aid is to assist you in determining your decision to accept your admissions. Important To All Students - Verification Process The verification process takes time and depending on when you (the student) submit your documents, the review is based on date order of when the Office of Financial Aid receive all completed documents from our students. During peak time verification can takes several weeks for completion before students are awarded based on the timeline of when awarding begins. June - Satisfactory Academic Progress Review Once Spring semester grades are submitted, continuing students are review for Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) . Please review the SAP Policy to ensure you are meeting the criteria to maintain financial aid eligibility for the upcoming academic year. If you are disqualify due to not meeting SAP, please refer to your email on instructions to appeal. July - All Continuing Eligible Students Awarding Begins Continuing students will begin to see their award package and be notified by email. Students that fail the SAP Policy should follow the instruction on their SAP email to appeal. This site is maintained by Office of Financial Aid. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact financialaid@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.10 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript.