Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu Division of Student Affairs Veterans Resource Center Main Navigation Future Students Education Benefits / Advising Programs and Services Jobs for Veterans About Us Scholarships Newsletter Events FAQs Forms Contact Us Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Navigating our FAQs This FAQ section is intended to provide quick access to information for current and recently admitted students. For ease of navigation, the FAQs are arranged and color coded by benefit type: General Registration Questions (No Color) VA Chapter Benefits Questions (Blue) Cal Vet Fee Waiver Questions (Orange) DoD Tuition Assistance Questions (Beige) Residency (White w/ Blue) If you are a prospective student for a future term, please refer to our Future Students or contact our Veterans Ambassador Program via email at vap@fullerton.edu. When can I register for courses? Enrollment for each semester is assigned by enrollment appointment. You are able to register during the earliest appointment/window you are assigned for that term (you will have multiple dates assigned). Upcoming Enrollment Dates : Fall 2021: Fall 2021 registration is currently open for all admitted students. All eligible students (see "who is eligible for priority registration" to see if you are eligible). Students not eligible for our priority date are assigned enrollment windows by class standing and other statuses. Note: If you are eligible for priority registration and your earliest enrollment appointment is after 4/9/2021, please contact us via email at veterans@fullerton.edu. The appointment windows can be found in your Student Center as seen in the image below: Who is eligible for priority registration? Who is eligible? All veterans and current military who register with the VRC and provide proof of military service (DD-214, DD-2384, or active duty orders) Family members of veterans or current military who are actively using Chapter 33 or Chapter 35 benefits Note: Students using only the Cal Vet Fee Waiver are not eligible for priority registration through the VRC. How does it work? Priority registration is available for Fall and Spring semesters only (no priority for winter/summer sessions). Priority registration windows are automatically assigned to all eligible, VRC-registered students. Please refer to the "When can I register for courses" question for upcoming registration windows and where to find your enrollment appointment window. How do I use my VA education benefits for the current/upcoming semester? Please submit a certification request through your student center. For instructions on submitting a request through your Student Center, please refer to our How-To Guide. First Time Using VA Benefits at CSUF? Please refer to our Veterans and Current Military or Family Members pages (as applicable) for further instructions. I submitted my Certification Request for the current/upcoming semester, but have not been certified. What do I do? Our department works to process certifications as early as possible to allow for timely processing once it reaches the VA. If you have submitted your certification request in the Veterans Benefit system, you will be certified in the order in which your submission was received. If we are within 45 days prior to the semester starting and you have not received a VAOnce confirmation or see your semester status as "Reported" in the Veterans Benefit system in your Student Center, please contact us at veterans@fullerton.edu above for further instructions. Important: If we encounter issues/concerns when processing your certification request, we will reach out via your CSUF email address. Please ensure you check for messages from us prior to contacting our department for a status update. I'm receiving withdrawal notices from Student Business Services, but I am using VA benefits. What do I do? Ensure you have submitted your online Certification Request to the VRC for the current/upcoming semester. Once you are certified you will see "Reported" in the Veterans Benefit system in your student center. If you have been certified and are still receiving notices, please follow the instructions below based upon your benefit type. If you are using Chapter 33 (Post-9/11 GI Bill) or Chapter 31 (VRE): If you have "No Enrollment Cancellation" in the holds section on your student portal, no further action is required. You can disregard the withdrawal notices. If you are certifed under CH33 or CH31 and do not have the "No Enrollment Cancellation" hold, please let us know via email at veterans@fullerton.edu. If you are using any other VA Chapter Benefit (35, 1606, 30): Student is responsible for paying tuition and fee charges prior to established payment deadlines for each semester to avoid being dropped for non-payment. Chapter 35 recipients can use the Cal Vet Fee Waiver (except those under Plan A) simultaneously to reduce the amount of fees that need to be paid by the deadline. I have not been paid or received an incorrect payment from the VA for the current semester. Who do I contact? VA Chapter Benefits (except Ch31/VRE) : Please call the GI Bill Hotline at 888-442-4551. Chapter 31 (VRE): Please contact your VRE counselor directly. Chapter 30 or 1606 (Montgomery GI Bill): Please ensure that you have verified your attendance using VA-WAVES. This can be accomplished over the phone at 1-877-823-2378 or electronically at this link to VA WAVES . Note: If you have any difficulties making contact or have additional questions, please contact us via email at veterans@fullerton.edu How many credits/units is considered full time for Winter and Summer sessions when using VA Chapter Benefits? The number of units to be considered full-time under VA benefits will vary based upon term length and your status (undergraduate/graduate student) required for winter and summer sessions. Please see the tables below for more details: Winter: Summer: Note: If you take less than full-time during a session, you can still be eligible for pro-rated monthly housing allowances/stipends (as applicable). I want to take classes at another school that apply to my degree at CSUF. How can I certify those courses under my VA benefits? Please submit the following documents directly to veterans@fullerton.edu: Parent School Letter Request Form Copy of course schedule at other college/university (proof of enrollment) How do I get my books, supplies, and parking permit through Chapter 31 benefits (VRE, formerly Voc Rehab)? During virtual operations, an email will be sent to students directly with instructions for purchasing books, supplies, and parking. This email will be sent no later than 2 weeks prior to the start of a term or within 2 business days of processing your Certification Request for that term (whichever comes first). What is the Cal Vet Fee Waiver (or College Fee Waiver for Veterans Dependents)? CalVet Fee Waiver (also known as the College Fee Waiver for Veteran Dependents) waives mandatory system-wide tuition at CSUF for eligible dependents of veterans. All applicants must meet California residency requirements to receive benefits. Where to apply: Apply for the CalVet Fee Waiver at their local California Veterans Service Office. Submit the CalVet Fee Waiver award letter to the Veterans Resource Center (VRC) for processing for the approved academic year. Pay remaining fees prior to established payment deadlines for the specific term. Important Notes: Student is responsible for campus-based fees and other fees not covered by the CalVet Fee Waiver. For information on "campus-based fees", please refer to CSUF Tuition and Fees . CalVet Fee Waiver does not cover Winter and only covers Summer for certain programs. Please consult with the Advising Coordinator at the VRC for the list of programs covered by the waiver during the summer. CalVet Fee Waiver can only be used for state-supported programs; it cannot be used for programs and courses administered under Extension and International Programs (EIP) How do I use the Cal Vet Fee Waiver at CSUF? Submit a copy of your 2021-2022 Academic Year Fee Waiver Approval Letter from the California Veterans Services Office directly to us via email at veterans@fullerton.edu. In the email please be sure to include the your CSUF ID number (CWID), CSUF email address, and phone number. Note: The fee waiver must be applied for every academic year. If you have not applied for the waiver for the current academic year, please refer to Cal Vet Fee Waiver section on the Family Members page. How long is the Cal Vet Fee Waiver valid for? The Cal Vet Fee Waiver is approved by the Cal Vet county office for a particular academic year. In the case of our current academic year (2021-2022), the fee waiver would be automatically applied to the state tuition for Fall 2021 and Spring 2022. Reminder: The fee waiver cannot be applied to Winter for any program and can only be applied to a select number of graduate level programs during the Summer session. If you are being "required" to take summer classes as a part of your program, please contact us at veterans@fullerton.edu to determine if your program is covered by the waiver during the summer sessions. I have been approved for the Cal Vet Fee Waiver, but I still see a balance on my account and fees are due. What do I do? Please ensure that you have provided a copy of your Cal Vet Fee Waiver approval to the CSUF Veterans Resource Center via email at veterans@fullerton.edu. As a reminder, the Cal Vet Fee Waiver covers state tuition only and there will be "campus-based" fees remaining after the waiver is applied. The campus-based fees for 2021-2022 are $618.61 (exluding any one-time fees like orientation, etc) and this balance would need to be paid prior to established payment deadlines to avoid being dropped from courses for non-payment. Does the Cal Vet Fee Waiver cover Summer or Winter sessions? Winter Sessions: No. Summer Sessions: No*. *Certain Programs that "require" attendance during the summer sessions may be covered under the waiver. Please contact us at veterans@fullerton.edu to verify if your program is covered. Does the Cal Vet Fee Waiver include a monthly stipend? No. The fee waiver only waives the state tuition. Students may qualify for the Dependent's Educational Assistance (Chapter 35) through the federal VA. How do I use DoD Tuition Assitance at CSUF? Tuition Assistance (TA) is a benefit paid up to 100% for the tuition expenses to eligible members of the U.S. Armed Forces (active duty/reserve guard). Each branch has its own criteria for eligibility, obligated service, application processes and restrictions. Funding is paid directly to the institution by the individual branch. Student Actions: Using your DoD Tuition Assistance benefits: Determine your eligibility and apply for Tuition Assistance (TA) by visiting your local installation education center, Educational Service Officer (ESO) or online virtual education center. Each service branch has a its own application form and procedures (i.e. GoArmyEd, AF Virtual Education Center). IMPORTANT: It is essential that you receive approval from your military branch to use TA prior to enrolling in courses. If you enroll in coursework without prior authorization it could result in you owing the full balance for tuition and fees for that semester. Submit request through Veterans Benefit System in your CSUF Student Portal. Steps for accessing / using the system can be found here . Requests for DoD TA must be submitted to our office at least 10 days prior to the start of the semester for which you are requesting funding. Air Force: Please include official authorization from the AF Virtual Education Center as an attachment when submitting the request. Army: Ensure that you have declared an educational path or objective in Army Ignited. Once your request is received, we will intitate the process in Army Ignited and notify you when you can go in and request authorization course funding. Other branches: Please contact veterans@fullerton.edu for additional guidance. In your email, please ensure that you include your CWID and the type of funding you plan to use so that we may better assist you. Note: The cost per unit breakdown (bottom of this section) can be used when entering course costs in your branch portal. Once the request has been processed and your official TA authorizaiton has been received, your TA funding will post to your student account balance (typically within 2-3 business days) so that you can pay any remaining balances as applicable. Please note that TA can only cover the "tuition" charges and cannot be applied toward campus-based fees. Pay for your remaining tuition and fees before the payment deadline. If you have submitted your authorization and a payment deadline is approaching, please contact the Veterans Resource Center at 657-278-8660 to allow us to protect your account while the authorizations are processed in CSUF system. Attend classes and maintain enrollment throughout the semester! Cost per credit hour breakdown (TA Recipients only): Cost Per Credit Hour Breakdown (DoD TA at CSUF) Important Notes: Student is responsible for paying all remaining fees prior to established payment deadlines. Student's interested in using Post-9/11 GI Bill and TA simultaneously should consult with the Advising Coordinator at the VRC. I am having difficulty with my branch's Tuition Assistance authorization platform (GoArmyEd, AF Virtual Ed Center, etc). What do I do? The first step is to contact your Educational Liaison Officer or installation education office. If you do not know their contact information, please reach out to your direct supervisor. The next step is to contact the help desk for the system your education office is having you use. If your concerns are not resolved by the options above, please send an email to veterans@fullerton.edu and we will assist you with troubleshooting. I am qualified as a non-resident, do I qualify for a non-residency fee waiver? To apply for the non-resident tuition fee exemption, complete/submit the following to spmoran@fullerton.edu : Residency Questionnaire Proof of CA physical residence (CA driver's license, renter/lease agreement, etc) Who may be eligible for the Non-Resident Tuition Fee Exemption? Current service member stationed in California on active duty (or served in California for more than one year) Spouse/child of current active duty service member stationed in California Veteran using Post-9/11 GI Bill (Chapter 33) or Montgomery GI Bill (Chapter 30) who lives in California. Spouse or child of a veteran using the Post-9/11 GI Bill® Transfer of Entitlement (Chapter 33 TOE) who lives in California and enrolls in CSUF. Spouse or child using benefits under the Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry Scholarship who lives in California and enrolls in CSUF. Additional Information on California Residency and Non-Residency Exemptions: If you have not been living in California for at least one year and do not qualify under the exemptions above, you may have to pay the additional tuition costs for non-residents . GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website. This site is maintained by Veterans Resource Center. Last Published 4/14/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact veterans@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.3.5 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.