Skip to main content SMU Explore SMU Academics Undergraduate Admission Student Affairs About News Athletics Events Calendar Bush Center Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply to SMUGIVE NOW Boldly Shaping Tomorrow Goals Leaders Gifts Ways to give Menu Search Igniting the future of business education Cox School of Business In 2020, SMU celebrated a century of business education at Cox School by launching the next era of innovation and impact. The school has grown from a single classroom with two students to an internationally recognized training ground for the leaders, influencers and problem-solvers driving the economy on a global scale. With the vibrant North Texas business community as a partner, Cox School has made a measurable impact on education, business development, intellectual capital, our community and the world. With the help of supporters like you, we will continue to fuel the future of business education and empower Mustangs’ entrepreneurial spirit for generations to come. Also in SMU Cox School of Business SMU Fund for Cox Facilities expansion and renovation MBA scholarships BBA scholarships General business scholarships SMU Fund for Cox Gifts to the SMU Fund for Cox address the school’s most pressing funding priorities. Allocated at the discretion of the dean, this fund allows the Cox School to meet new opportunities as they arise. Funding priorities include scholarship support, faculty fellowship and research grants, international study and research support, new program development and leadership development opportunities. Make a Gift HJjm-mEmE10 Video Building for the next generation of leaders To provide a 21st-century business education requires the right facilities – technology-rich spaces that are designed for small-group, active learning. The renovation and expansion of Cox School facilities will create a 9-to-9 culture, where faculty and students spend their days on campus collaborating and tackling grand challenges. Donors have already given $90 million to renovate and expand Cox School facilities. Now we seek to raise by April 2022 the final $30 million needed to break ground. Learn more Scholarships empower outstanding students Scholarships empower Mustangs by helping Cox recruit and retain top-quality students who will excel in the business education environment. As competition increases both locally and nationally, scholarship offerings help narrow the field and ultimately make the difference when it comes time for students to make their university choice. MBA scholarships Master of Business Administration (MBA) programs at the Cox School have been ranked among the top programs of their kind in the nation for many years. From the exceptional faculty and the small class size to the unique experience of studying business globally and having the optimum networking opportunities that the Cox School and the city of Dallas offer, the Cox School is an exemplary educational experience for the men and women who walk through the doors of the school to begin the program each year. In order to continue to attract high-quality students to the SMU Cox MBA programs, scholarships are integral. While both current-use and endowment gifts support MBA scholarships, as part of SMU Ignited we have announced a $30 million drive for endowed MBA scholarships. Gifts from Edwin “Ed” L. Cox, Sr. ’42 and Carolyn L. Miller and David B. Miller ’72, ’73 have already put us halfway to our goal with $15 million to shape the leadership pipeline and empower the next generation of entrepreneurs. BBA scholarships Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) programs consist of two primary programs, the Cox BBA Business Scholars program and Business Direct students. Admission is highly selective but holistic in nature with an emphasis on a student’s academic performance. While both groups will be admitted to the business school, BBA Scholars also will receive a supplemental scholarship from the business school. These programs work to connect these exceptional students to a variety of activities designed to help them explore the business world. Cox general business scholarships Gifts to the Cox General Business Scholarships Fund support scholarships in graduate and undergraduate programs, at the dean’s discretion. Strengthened scholarship support enables the Cox School to attract high-quality students, which in turn ensures that SMU Cox remains among the nation’s highly ranked schools of business. These needs vary year to year, and the Cox School of Business General Scholarship Fund allows flexibility for the dean to designate funds where they are needed most. Make an impact Gifts of any amount Support the general scholarship fund for incoming students or invest in the expansion and renovation of Cox facilities. Capital gift Contribute to the facilities renovation and expansion project. Learn more about the project and the naming opportunities available. Endowed scholarship A $125,000 gift or pledge establishes a $100,000 endowed, named partial-tuition graduate scholarship and provides $25,000 for immediate scholarship awards. When fully funded, the projected estimate for spendable earnings on the named endowment fund would provide approximately $4,500 per year. Endowments last in perpetuity. Annual scholarship $40,000 one-time gift, or $10,000 per year for four years, supports one BBA student or two MBA students over four years. Can be designated for use in the 2020–21 academic year. As the premier private university in North Texas, SMU exists to shape future leaders who transform communities and organizations through ingenuity and thoughtful problem-solving. Building on our history of excellence, we have launched SMU Ignited: Boldly Shaping Tomorrow – our multiyear, $1.5 billion campaign to attract and support outstanding students and faculty, to explore new fields and cutting-edge technologies, and to positively impact Dallas and the world beyond. We invite you to join us and empower the bold, the curious and the creative to better their professions and their communities. Blaze a new path Ashley Pitts Director of Development Cox School of Business apitts@smu.edu or 214-768-4988 Let’s stay in touch To sign up to receive updates about SMU Ignited, enter your email address below and hit “submit.” This form needs Javascript to display, which your browser doesn't support. Sign up here instead Ways to giveGive now Back to top Schools and areas Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Ways to Give Endowment giving Current-use giving Capital giving Planned giving University-wide initiatives School and unit giving Contact Us Office of the Vice President for Development and External Affairs Principal and Major Gifts School and Project Development Athletics © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 Give now Contact us Goals Empower outstanding students Enhance campus and community Enrich teaching and research Leaders Message from the President Message from Campaign Leadership Council News Gifts Campaign updates Events and programs Campaign toolkit Ways to give Scholarships Endowed faculty positions Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Athletics Libraries Student Affairs Cox School renovation and expansion Hughes-Trigg renovation Owen Arts Center transformation Weber End Zone Complex Menu Search Search Submit Popular Searches Current Students Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission Faculty & Staff Majors & Minors Alumni COVID-19 Information (Mustang Strong) Did you know? SMU's singular approach to integrating rigorous learning with hands-on experience will prepare you to achieve your educational goals and expand your world in ways you never imagined. Ours is a community of people forging their own paths. We'd like to help you shape yours. Plan your visit Menu Search