Skip to content Open every day. Free every day. English Give and Join Become a Volunteer Home Plan a Visit Plants Stories Events About Us Arnold 150 Educators Researchers Toggle search bar Open menu Close Home Open every day. Free every day. Plan a Visit → Plants → Stories → Events → About Us → Arnold 150 → Educators → Researchers → Give and Join Become a Volunteer Events Arboretum Trees for Boston School Yards Community Explore Your Origins at MassQ Ball 2022 Bay State Banner Happy Birthday Frederick Law Olmsted! Legacies Making Art and Nature Intersect Community Lilac Sunday, Director’s Series Celebrate 150 Years of the Arnold Arboretum Events Courtney Allen Welcomed as New Head of Public Programs Visitor Engagement Celebrate 150 Years with Us Events A.R.T. And Arnold Arboretum Create Experience That Centers Healing And Resilience WBUR An Environment of Trees Art American Repertory Theater Unveils “The Arboretum Experience” Art Everyday is Mother’s Day at the Arnold Arboretum Community Actors’ Shakespeare Project presents “Nature of Shakespeare” from the Arboretum Art ← Previous 1 / 2 1 2 → Next Plan a Visit Contact Us Plants Stories Events About Us Educators Researchers Give and Join Arnold 150 Free and open every day. We are committed to the Olmstedian principle that everyone is entitled to open space, so our gates are open to everyone, every day, free of charge. Funded by our community. The Arnold Arboretum has been funded by the generosity of the supporting public since our founding in 1872. Give today and continue that legacy. For over 7,000 years, the land on which the Arnold Arboretum now sits has been inhabited and used by diverse societies and cultures of Indigenous Peoples, including most recently, the Massachusett Tribe. Read about the deep history of the Arboretum landscape. Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Flickr © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College Intranet Privacy Policy Accessibility Join our mailing list to hear from all the voices at the Arnold Arboretum. Sign Up