Skip to content Facilities Management Submit a Work Order Alerts & Outages About Us Search Campus Life Campus Life Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC On-Campus Housing Apply for On-Campus Housing Prospective Residents Current Residents Our Residences Housing Resources About Us 50 Haven Athletic Center We are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday only. Get More Information Facilities Services Facilities Services COVID-19 Submit and Check on Work Orders A-Z of Services Rates for Chargeable Services Resources for Researchers Event Support Moving Offices or Labs Checklist Supported Buildings Capital Infrastructure Other Services at CUIMC Contact Us COVID-19 Facilities Management and Campus Services is taking additional measures around campus to support basic operations. Learn How We Are Protecting the Campus Classroom Resources Classroom Resources Space Reservations Classroom Technology and Equipment Accessibility in the Classroom Student Lockers Training Calendar Contact Us Space Reservations Room Policies and Support List of Available Rooms 25Live Event Scheduler Capital Projects Capital Projects Our Projects Haven Plaza Request a Capital Project CARE Crew For Vendors and Contractors FAQ Contact Us Our Projects We are continuously renovating, building upon, and improving CUIMC's historic campus as a center for excellence and healing. View Our Projects Fire and Life Safety Fire and Life Safety Fire Safety Regulatory Compliance Contractor Safety Accessibility Gender-Neutral Restrooms Asbestos Maintenance Emergency Management Smoke-Free CUIMC FAQ Contact Us Fire Safety Columbia University Irving Medical Center's fire safety team keeps our community safe from fire. Learn About Fire Safety We're your go-to fitness resource at the medical center. You are here Home > Campus Life > 50 Haven Athletic Center Getting to and Around Campus On-Campus Housing 50 Haven Athletic Center Athletic Center COVID FAQs Facilities and Equipment Memberships Open Hours and Contact 50 Haven Ave. Athletic Center Events & Deadlines Energy & Sustainability Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Student Health on Haven Faculty Club Public Safety Smoke-Free CUIMC 50 Haven Athletic Center Welcome to 50 Haven Athletic Center Conveniently located on levels 2B and 3B of 50 Haven Ave., we help thousands of CUIMC students, faculty, and staff work out and improve their health. Operational Schedule: Monday-Friday, 7 a.m.- 8 p.m. Starting Monday, April 4, 2022, the Athletic Center has added a few extra pool times during the day. Please check below for the upcoming pool schedule. Pool Hours: Monday - Friday: 7-10 a.m; 12-3 p.m.; and 5-7:55 p.m. As of Monday, April 11, 2022, you will no longer have to reserve pool sessions online. About the Athletic Center Develop your personalized workout program using our treadmills, ellipticals, stationary bicycles, rowing machines, stair climbers, and dumbbell sets and benches. We also offer a number of fitness classes throughout the year, and our facility and pool are accessible. The Athletic Center is closed on the weekends and on all Columbia University Irving Medical Center-designated holidays. Our Facilities View Spaces and Equipment View Spaces and Equipment Memberships View Rates and Perks View Rates and Perks Open Hours and Contact See our open hours for the athletic center and pool, and learn about any temporary closures. Open Hours and Contact Events There are currently no upcoming events. View All 50 Haven Ave. Athletic Center Events Columbia University Irving Medical Center Submit a Work Order Sign Up for Alerts Campus Map How Are We Doing? Contact Us CUIMC Facilities Management and Campus Services 650 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Back to top