COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Department of Anthropology Section Menu Anthropology Home Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty and Staff Archaeology Biological Anthropology Cultural Anthropology Museum Studies Lowell D. Holmes Museum of Anthropology Fairmount College of Liberal Arts and Sciences dumouchel_lab People of Paleo Lab Wichita State's Anthropology Department combines a diverse range of courses and concentrations, with opportunities for student-faculty research — opening doors to a wide variety of career paths. Faculty and Staff Graduate Undergraduate Anthropology at WSU Founded in 1967, the Department of Anthropology at Wichita State University has grown from three faculty members to six faculty members and four adjunct lecturers. The Holmes Museum of Anthropology, research laboratories, and various field research stations are among the special facilities available to all students, both undergraduate and graduate. Anthropology combines the perspectives of the sciences and the humanities. It examines many aspects of human activity -- psychological, biological, social, and cultural -- including technological, economic, religious, political, and artistic. An anthropologist explores the vast diversity of human cultures, striving to understand and appreciate the myriad ways of living that constitute alternative solutions to the universal problems of human existence and survival. It has a tradition of four subfields: archaeology, linguistics, cultural, and biological anthropology. Areas of Emphasis Archaeology Archaeologists study the material remains (the buildings, tools, pottery, and other artifacts) of societies in order to understand cultures and to infer the processes of cultural change. Anthropological archaeologists are usually, but not exclusively, concerned with the prehistoric cultures (those without written records) of our early ancestors, people who existed before the emergence of agriculture, the domestication of animals, and the use of metals. Learn More Biological Anthropology Biological anthropology, also called physical anthropology, is the subfield of anthropology that focuses on the biological aspects of human beings, especially how they relate to cultural practices, evolution, and the environment. The subfield itself is divided into three major branches which often overlap: paleoanthropology (the study of fossil humans and near relatives); primatology (the study of primates -- humans, apes, monkeys, and prosimians); and the study of modern human variation and adaptation. Learn More Cultural Anthropology Cultural anthropologists seek to understand different groups and societies by examining their culture from a holistic perspective, which means the broadest possible context through which the complexities, interconnections, and interdependencies of culture can be comprehended. Culture can be defined as the entire collection of a group or society's values, beliefs, traditions, perceptions, and behaviors . It encompasses stated as well as unconscious principles by which groups define their lives and the world around them. Every aspect of a group or society -- from family structure, social control, political and economic structures, to religious, artistic, and linguistic principles, even the way we dress and the food we eat -- is part of culture. Learn More Museum Studies Graduate Certificate The Museums Studies Graduate Certificate Program is designed for graduate students and for those who currently work in museums. This is an interdisciplinary program that prepares students for careers in the museum field and will enhance the education and knowledge of those currently working in museums. Learn More Check it out! Information on anthropology courses offered at Wichita State University Course Spotlight Lambda Alpha Anthropology Club Learn More Email us at anthropology@wichita.edu or call (316) 978-3195. 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©