Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager University Human Resources Employee Education Program Brown University offers the Employee Education Program (EEP) benefit to eligible staff employees to help them meet their educational goals. This benefit provides financial assistance toward courses at Brown and outside of Brown. Eligibility Employees* are eligible to use the EEP benefit if they meet all three of the following criteria: Staff working at least 67% time (1300 hours per year) Have completed six months of employment at the time of application Employment status in good standing * Union members will receive education benefits as described in their respective Collective Bargaining Agreements. Faculty members, dependents, and spouses are not eligible to receive education benefits under this program. Program Guidelines Financial assistance is provided for undergraduate, advanced degree, or job-related courses. Courses may be taken at Brown or outside of Brown, however Brown and non-Brown programs cannot be combined in the same calendar year. Courses are considered job-related if they maintain or enhance the employee’s skills needed in their present position at Brown or if it is a requirement either by law or of Brown. Courses may be taken in a classroom setting, online, or in a hybrid format Courses must be taken at degree granting, accredited institutions belonging to one of six regional accrediting agencies: Accreditation Agency regional area Higher Learning Commission Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming Middle States Commission on Higher Education/Mid-Atlantic Region of Commission on Higher Education Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Washington D.C., U.S. Virgin Islands New England Association of Schools and Colleges Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities Alaska, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia Western Association of Schools and Colleges California, Hawaii, American territories such as Guam and American Samoa EEP for Brown University Courses Employees may take up to three degree or job-related courses per calendar year (January 1-December 31) under the EEP. Degree Programs at Brown Employees must apply to the Graduate School and be accepted. Degree candidates must adhere to the guidelines and requirements of the Graduate School for degree programs. Notify the Graduate School and Academic Advisors of any impending interruption in course work. Once registered for course(s), employees must email [email protected], Administrative Coordinator, to request that the Graduate Student Activity and Graduate Recreation Fees be waived, otherwise they will continue to receive a bill and will be responsible for payment Graduate Student Activity Fee: Access to all Graduate Student Council (GSC) social events. Graduate Recreation Fee: Access to the Nelson Fitness Center. Job-Related Courses at Brown Upon notification of EEP approval from the Benefits Office, registration information will be forwarded prior to the start of the semester with information on the registration process. Those enrolling in job-related courses will be allowed to enroll on a space available basis and will be required to obtain approval from the professor. Courses must fall under Brown's accreditation, as well as offer a grade and/or credit. Important Dates Wednesday, January 26, 2022 - Classes begin Tuesday, February 8, 2022 - Last day to add a course without a $15 fee (not covered by the EEP) Wednesday, February 23, 2022 - Last day to change a grade option Saturday, March 12, 2022 - (mid-semester) – Last day to drop a course without an EEP penalty Taxable Tuition Brown University is allowed to provide $5,250 in tax-free educational assistance per calendar year. Employees enrolled in graduate degree programs or job-related graduate courses (level 2000 and above) will be taxed on any tuition that exceeds the IRS limit to be in compliance with IRS regulations. EEP for Courses Outside of Brown Employees can receive reimbursement up to $5,250 per calendar year (January 1–December 31) and must be enrolled in a degree or job-related courses(s). Degree Programs Courses must be taken at a degree granting accredited college or university recognized by one of six regional accrediting agencies. Job-Related Courses and Certificate Programs Job-related courses and certificate programs must fall under the parent school's accreditation, as well as offer a grade and/or credit. Application Guidelines Complete an EEP application specific to degree or job-related courses (located on the right of this webpage). Applications should be emailed to [email protected] prior to the start date of the course (two weeks preferred). Payment for Courses and Grades Employees must receive a grade of C, satisfactory, or pass. Upon course completion for employees taking courses at Brown, the Registrar's Office will forward a copy of the employee's grade report to the Benefits Office. Brown Courses: No money is exchanged. The EEP sends through a credit to the student's account at the beginning of the semester. Non-Brown Courses: Participants must pay the school that they are attending up front and then submit for reimbursement once the course has been successfully completed. Participants must submit a grade report and itemized paid invoice to [email protected]. Tuition reimbursements will be direct deposited on the next available pay period, or if you do not have direct deposit, a check will be issued for the reimbursable amount. The following expenses are not eligible for reimbursement under this program: Conferences, workshops and seminars Membership, licensing and exam fees Travel, lodging, meals, and parking expenses Supplies and other miscellaneous fees EEP Penalties During the semester in which an employee is approved for a course/courses through the Employee Education Program and they voluntarily terminate from the University, or receive a grade below a C, or fail the course(s), or drop the course(s) after the drop deadline date, they will be responsible for the following: For Brown courses: The full cost of tuition for the course(s) must be reimbursed back to the University. For non-Brown courses: Employees will not be reimbursed for their tuition costs. Email [email protected] with questions. Related Forms and Documents Employee Education Program (EEP) Application: Degree Programs Employee Education Program (EEP) Application: Job-Related Courses and Certificate Programs Employee Education Program FAQs Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Employee Education Program Tuition Aid Program for Dependent Children Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Also in University Human Resources Benefits Health and Wellbeing Family Resources Retirement Worklife/Wellness Time Off Leave of Absence Educational Benefits Employee Education Program Tuition Aid Program for Dependent Children Additional Voluntary Benefits Employee Accommodation Services Compensation Employee & Labor Relations Annual Staff Evaluations Separating Employees Staff Conflict of Interest and Commitment Recruitment & Staffing Student Employment Talent Development Explore Brown University Explore Brown University Learn More Brown Homepage About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Brown & Providence Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering University Human Resources University Human Resources Brown University Box 1879 350 Eddy Street, 4th floor Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-3175 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Facebook Facebook Giving to Brown Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: [email protected] Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat