Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About Site Feedback Search Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Research Lifecycle 1. Get Started 2. Identify Funding Opportunities 3. Write Proposal 4. Submit Proposal 5. Conduct Research 6. Commercialize Work Learners Key Partners About Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Leadership Administrative Areas Centers and Institutes Core Facilities and Shared Resources Sign up for a Listserv Events Calendar Contact Us Site Feedback OVPRS Websites Research and Scholarship Home Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Navigator Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose $sLabel Home About Research and Scholarship Administrative Areas RAA AAA Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Development and Evaluation Research Capacity and Operations Research Administration Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Integrity Conflicts of Interest Complion Data Broker Services Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) eProst (IRB System) Export Control Compliance Foreign Influence & Engagement The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) Research Misconduct Research Compliance and Quality Assurance (RCQA) UDisclose Several offices under the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship are dedicated to ensuring the integrity, safety and compliance of the sponsored programs we undertake. These professionals have a deep knowledge of regulatory requirements and know how to ensure that the end product of your work meets the utmost standards. Regulatory Affairs and Assessment Research Compliance and Quality Assurance Professionals dedicated to supporting the research community through Quality Reviews for human subject research, Clinical Trial Disclosure support and oversight, Corrective and Preventive Action management and educational training sessions. These teams facilitate continuous quality improvement in the protection of our research participants and the integrity of data. go to rcqa Human Subject Research Office and Institutional Review Boards The University of Miami Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) review all human research conducted under the auspices of the University of Miami and serve as an IRB of record for Jackson Health Systems (JHS). They are composed of members from both scientific and non-scientific backgrounds. Membership includes faculty and staff from both UM and JHS, as well as representatives from the local community. go to hsro Access EPROST Conflict of Interest The University of Miami values the relationships of our investigators with outside entities, and encourages appropriate collaborations that foster new scientific insights while assuring transparency and objectivity in research and the integrity of the scientific record. The University of Miami's conflict of interest (COI) and foreign influence (FI) policy is designed to promote objectivity in research, scholarly and educational activities funded under external grants, contracts or cooperative agreements. UDisclose is the University system that allows all individuals to disclose external financial interests, foreign engagements and other disclosures as required. Find instructions for UDisclose here. Access the UDisclose System Export Control Compliance While the University applies the principles of freedom of inquiry and open exchange of knowledge, we must also be mindful of the federal laws and regulations governing the exchange of research materials and results that are subject to export controls. Data Broker Services The mission of Data Broker Services is to provide a centralized, standardized review of all requests for clinical data at UMSOM/UHealth. Data is increasingly the lifeblood of the organization and must flow to meet its needs. In an increasingly complex regulatory environment with concerns over information privacy and security, the flows of data, particularly identifiable and other sensitive data, must be balanced against compliance, security and regulatory risk. Oversight Committees Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee (ESCRO) Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) More resources Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative (CITI) Complion Disclosures & Relationship Management Export Control Compliance Foreign Engagement Guidelines Foreign Influence on U.S. Research Research Integrity Research Misconduct University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices