COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Details: Business Administration - Executive MBA, Master's Master'sBusiness Administration - Executive MBA All Programs W. Frank Barton School of Business Graduate Studies in Business The Wichita State Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) is ideal if you're a mid-career manager, executive or business owner looking to gain a career-advancing, AACSB-accredited graduate degree in business—without giving up your job or personal life. Wichita State's EMBA: Completed in 20 months Meets on select Saturdays Offers an interactive, collaborative environment Provides personalized support Learn how Business Administration - Executive MBA is the right fit for you. Request Info Start Your Application Applied learning at Wichita State At Wichita State, applied learning is everything. In fact, every degree we offer has a guaranteed applied learning or research experience built right into it equipping you with the relevant skills and experience to make you workforce ready before graduation. Learn about our innovative approach Admission to the program Admission to the EMBA is offered every two years. Good candidates for the EMBA program are individuals who are self-motivated and have the temperament to handle the demands of work, school and home—and the willingness to make a 20-month commitment. For additional admission details, click on the link below. Admission requirements Inside the Program Learn more by getting outside of the classroom You don't have to stay on campus for all of your classes. Braden McCall, a business management minor, took advantage of WSU's Study Abroad Program, spending a semester studying at the ESCE International Business School in Paris, France. Taking management classes while fully immersed in another culture will give Braden the experience he'll need as he one day pursues a career in mechanical engineering. Curriculum To earn the EMBA, you will complete 36 hours of coursework. EMBA students progress through the program as a group, studying a wide range of business-related topics from organizational behavior and business economics to corporate finance and business law. View the curriculum Careers A graduate degree in business from Wichita State's Barton School will help you take the next step in your career—while opening doors to new possibilities. Learn more about careers in this field Similar Programs Business Administration (Master's) 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©