Skip to main content Temple University Explore Temple’s Schools and Colleges Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Support Temple Temple University Search Site Search Full Menu Admissions Undergraduate Transfer Graduate & Professional International Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Academics Degrees and Programs Schools & Colleges Accelerated Programs Campuses Honors Program Continuing Education & Summer Sessions International Study Courses & Schedules Dual Degrees Libraries Life at Temple Arts & Culture Sustainability Virtual Life Clubs & Organizations Diversity & Inclusivity Housing & Dining Health & Wellness City Life Visiting Temple FAQs Safety Temple Food Trucks Student Resources Tobacco Free Temple Welcome Week Research Centers & Institutes Research Divisions Faculty & Research News Grants & Funding Clinical Trials Technology Development Athletics Varsity Sports Tickets Stella the Owl About Board of Trustees President History & Traditions Temple Health News & Media Offices Public Information Faculty & Staff Resources Campus Development Internal Audits Ethics & Compliance Libraries Liberal Arts MLA You are here Home Academics Degrees and Programs Liberal Arts MLA Apply Request More Info Liberal Arts MLA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Master of Liberal Arts Develop an individualized program of study based on your personal interests and professional goals with the Master of Liberal Arts in Temple University’s College of Liberal Arts. This unique master’s degree is specifically designed for working professionals who are preparing for a career change or to advance their current careers, or those who wish to pursue doctoral study. Liberal Arts master's students are encouraged to develop an individual program of study, based on their own interests and objectives, and in a direction that will challenge and refine their expertise. Students develop strong analytical, research and writing skills through interdisciplinary coursework offered across the College of the Liberal Arts and Temple’s schools and colleges, allowing them to participate in a diverse network of students and faculty while opening doors to new career possibilities. Faculty are drawn from a range of disciplines with an emphasis on applied humanities and expertise in art and culture, media studies, public history, and social theory. Our Community The College of Liberal Arts at Temple comprises many disciplines and research areas. Now more than ever, an interdisciplinary liberal arts education is invaluable for your future pursuits. It offers the opportunity to further push your drive to create real change in the world, here at Temple and beyond. In this graduate program, you’ll work closely with diverse faculty members who are highly esteemed in their field and with a curious, passionate community of peers. Program Format & Curriculum Students have up to five years to complete the MLA program on a full- or part-time basis with evening classes held after 4:30 p.m. at both Temple’s Main and Center City campuses. Some classes are offered online or in a hybrid format. The curriculum for this 30-credit master’s program includes one required course, three Master of Liberal Arts special topics courses and six electives, which can consist of additional MLA courses and/or graduate courses from other departments and colleges. The culminating event of the program is a Master’s Qualifying Paper, which demonstrates analytical writing, critical reading and original scholarly thought. Recent examples of the MLA special topics courses include Topics in the Arts and American Culture: Made in America: Transcendentalism, the Beat Generation, and the Modern Hipster, Topics in Gender Studies: Secularism: Muslim and Jewish Women, Ways of Seeing: African-Americans in Popular Culture, and Topics in Cultural Studies: Everyday Life Studies: Myth, Satire, and Spectacle. Learn more about Master of Liberal Arts courses. Related Graduate Degrees Criminal Justice PhD Public Policy MPP School Leadership MEd* Urban Education MEd* Adult and Organizational Development MEd* Related Graduate Certificates Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies *College of Education Tuition & Fees In keeping with Temple’s commitment to access and affordability, this Master of Liberal Arts offers a competitive level of tuition with multiple opportunities for financial support. Tuition rates are set annually by the university and are affected by multiple factors, including program degree level (undergraduate or graduate), course load (full- or part-time), in-state or out-of-state residency, and more. These tuition costs apply to the 2021–2022 academic year. Pennsylvania resident: $966.00 per credit Out-of-state: $1,329.00 per credit Learn more about our tuition and fees. Program Contact For questions regarding the Master of Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts , contact the following staff members. Michael D. Szekely is the director of the Liberal Studies Department. Phone: 215-204-6479 Email: mszekely@temple.edu LaTasha Goodman is the manager of administration within the College of Liberal Arts. Email: lgoodman@temple.edu Phone: 215-204-8516 Student Clubs & Organizations Supplement your Master's of Liberal Arts coursework and enhance your graduate education experience through student clubs and organizations. You’ll meet and network with other students, become involved with the community, and build invaluable skills to help you realize your personal and professional goals. Learn more about Temple’s student clubs and organizations. Study Away Temple’s study away programs offer you the opportunity to spend an academic year, semester or summer abroad. Complete graduate coursework, participate in internships or collaborate in research while immersing yourself in the culture, history and people of your host city. Learn more about your options for studying away. Accreditation Temple University’s departments and programs are accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education. LA-LIBA-MLA Additional Program Information Visit College Site View Program Details Go back to AcademicsMore in Liberal Arts MLA Admissions Careers, Internships & Opportunities Required Courses Research & Facilities Scholarships & Financial Aid Apply Request More Info Temple University 1801 N. Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-7000 Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Calendar Policies Social Media TUportal TUmail Accessibility Careers at Temple Safety & Emergency Information Ethics & Compliance Privacy Statement Professional Licensure Disclosures Follow Temple University Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Please note that what you see here may reflect Temple under more normal circumstances. In the event of a COVID-19 outbreak or other emergencies, public health measures like face coverings and physical distancing requirements may be implemented to protect the health and safety of our community. Apply Request More Info