Toggle navigation Home Departments For Departments Features Steps To Get Online Frequently Asked Questions Training Full Training Fulfilling an Order Processing a Refund Pulling a Product Report Pulling a Totals Report Running the PeopleSoft Query Purchasing a Product Forms All Forms Marketplace Application Marketplace User Agreement Access Request Store Creation Form Contact Clemson Marketplace Making E-commerce Easy Campus Wide Learn More About Marketplace The E-Commerce unit of the Cash and Treasury Services Department strives to provide University departments with a secure and convenient way to extend their business operations to the World Wide Web. Our goal is to provide a secure environment that allows buyers and sellers to connect electronically, making it easy for students, parents, alumni, and the community to do business with Clemson. Marketplace, hosted by TouchNet Information Systems, Inc., will serve as the University's main E-Commerce service provider. The use of Marketplace helps us to accomplish our mission by providing an E-Commerce solution that is Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliant. It is both secure and cost-effective, and allows departments to easily operate online storefronts to sell products or accept online payments. Accounting Automatization No More Web Deposits No Cost Site Build Free Set-Up and Maintenance Real-Time Reports Your Data When You Need It Payment Security Completely PCI Compliant What We Do Work With You The Cash and Treasury Services Department will direct you to the e-commerce option that will best serve your needs. After your site is completed, we will continue to provide maintenance at no cost to you. Learn More Build Your Store Each storefront is tailored to your specific needs. Tell us the direction you want to go, and let us take care of the rest. Learn More Get You Online Even after training and setup, we are still involved in ensuring your store is as effective as possible. We are able to conduct maintenance, make changes to text, and add products without the site going offline. Learn More Departments About Training Steps to Get Online Contact FAQ's Forms Application Access Form Store Form Other Sites Marketplace Mall U.commerce Contact Us Address: 391 College Avenue, Suite 302 Clemson, SC 29634 Email: Marketplace@lists.clemson.edu Clemson University Cash and Treasury Services