Skip Navigation Sustainability OU Homepage Search OU The University of Oklahoma Skip Carousel Content ‹ › Skip Side Navigation Home Campus Efforts Sustainability Map Academics and Research Environmental Concerns Committee Get Involved Contact Us Sign the Crimson & Green Commitment Today! The online Crimson & Green Commitment invites members of the OU community to make a personal pledge to sustainability, encouraging eco-friendly habits in our everyday lives. All students, faculty, and staff can make their commitment by logging in and completing the Qualtrics survey. Make Your Commitment Today Environmental Excellence In the spring of 2016 the university received an Environmental Excellence Award from the Earth Month Network to acknowledge OU’s campus, community and global outreach efforts to provide environmental programming and events during the time period of World Water Day, March 25th, through Earth Day, April 22nd. More Information EPA Green Power Partnership College and University Challenge The University of Oklahoma currently ranks first in the Big 12 and thirteenth in the nation among higher education institutions in the EPA’s Green Power Partnership. The University was honored by the EPA as the 2012 Green Power Partner of the Year and has been the largest purchaser of green energy in the Big 12 since initiation of the EPA’s challenge in academic year 2012-2013. EPA’s Green Power Partnership Princeton Review Green Campus Green College The University has been selected five consecutive times by the Princeton Review to be featured in the Green Guide based on data from surveys of hundreds of four-year colleges concerning commitments to the environment and sustainability. Green Guide Bicycle Friendly Community The University of Oklahoma was recognized by the League of American Bicyclists as a Bicycle Friendly University in 2014, with a bronze distinction. In 2017, the university’s distinction was advanced to silver as a result of improvements to new and existing bike lanes, the bike share program, and the new comprehensive website. Learn more about Bicycle Friendly University Programs. ou.edu/bike Office of Sustainability 660 Parrington Oval Norman, OK 73019 Accessibility Sustainability HIPAA OU Job Search Policies Legal Notices Copyright Resources & Offices OU Report It! Sustainability Social Media facebook twitter more Updated 4/26/2022 by Office of Sustainability: sustainability@ou.edu