Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home Staff Directory Suzannah Rogan Suzannah Rogan Suzannah Rogan (she/her) serves as a Prevention Coordinator in the Sexual Violence Response Office, joining the team as a staff member in May of 2021. Prior to joining Columbia University, Suzannah was integral in shaping campus prevention and intervention strategies and programs at Doane University, a small liberal arts university in Nebraska. While there, she also served as the inaugural Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Specialist, focused on leading strategic and grassroots initiatives to create and sustain a more equitable university environment and curriculum. Beginning at Peace Over Violence, Suzannah has been involved in violence prevention for the better part of a decade. In 2015, she made the choice to leave behind business management after 13 years to return to school and focus on creating a more equitable and peaceful world. At the Gender Institute of the London School of Economics, she focused her research on masculinity construction in the media and the impact that can have on the use of violence and other forms of power. Her research extends beyond the page in her focus on inviting men into this work and helping them see their path as partners in any solutions. She has a background and education in content and curriculum development, anti-oppressive frameworks, leadership development, and utilizing theories of change. In addition to finding hope and inspiration through students, Suzannah finds the days are best when spent with her partner and her dog, Tilden. She loves baking, theatre, reading, hiking, and the strong women who comprise her support network. Education: M. Sc., Gender, Media and Culture, Gender Institute, London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK, 2016 B. A., Drama with Departmental Honors, Seattle University, Seattle, WA 2005 Certifications and Licensure: Executive Program in Leadership Strategy for Violence & Abuse Prevention, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, 2020 Professional Experience: Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Specialist, Doane University Member, Nebraska Sexual Violence Prevention (SVP) Collective Project Director, Campus Advocacy, Prevention, and Education (CAPE) Project, Doane University Los Angeles Area RESPECT! Challenge Captain, Futures Without Violence Violence Prevention Specialist, Peace Over Violence Awards and Honors: Visionary Voice Award, National Sexual Violence Resource Center and Nebraska Coalition to End Sexual and Domestic Violence, 2021 Prevention Coordinator Contact Info Sexual Violence Response Lerner Hall New York, NY 10027, USA [email protected] Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close