Skip to main content Main navigation Academics Faculty & Research News & Events Offices & Services About Us Information For Alumni Industry Partners & Recruiters Prospective Students Shortcuts Employment & Jobs Visit Us Make a Gift Search Read the latest updates on coronavirus from Harvard University. For SEAS specific-updates, please visit SEAS & FAS Division of Science: Coronavirus FAQs SearchMenu Academics Environmental Science & Engineering Undergraduate Program Environmental Science and Engineering (ESE) is an interdisciplinary program with the goal of understanding, predicting, and responding to natural and human-induced environmental change. Addressing environmental issues such as global warming, stratospheric ozone depletion, or local and regional air and water pollution requires perspectives from a diverse set of scientific disciplines including atmospheric physics and chemistry, oceanography, glaciology, hydrology, geophysics, ecology, and biogeochemistry. We view the environment as a complex set of chemical, physical, and biological interactions, made even more complicated by the various activities of human society. Through exploration of the underlying processes and feedbacks within the Earth system, and with a range of approaches from theory and modeling to experiments and observations, we train students to think about environmental processes in an integrated fashion, preparing them to manage the environmental challenges we face. Environmental Science and Engineering 2021 Fall Social Do you have questions about our program? Contact our ADUS! Bryan Yoon (Ph.D.) is the Assistant Director of Undergraduate Studies in Environmental Science and Engineering. With an undergraduate degree in environmental planning and graduate degrees in ecosystem biogeochemistry, Bryan has research and teaching experience in a variety of topics in environmental sciences. Whether you are thinking about joining ESE or looking for someone to discuss your thesis ideas, Bryan’s here to help you and listen to you. For questions, please email byoon@seas.harvard.edu. If you would like to meet with Bryan, please use this Calendly link or stop by his office during his office hours (Fall 2021 12:30 PM – 2:30 PM, Pierce 117). Main navigation Information For In Environmental Science & Engineering Undergraduate Program First-Year Exploration Undergraduate Engineering at Harvard Concentration Information Concentration Requirements How to Declare Who are my Advisors? Sophomore Forum ABET Information Research Opportunities Senior Thesis Research for Course Credit (ES 91R) AB/SM Information Peer Concentration Advisors (PCA) Program Graduate Program How to Apply PhD Timeline PhD Overview and Requirements PhD Model Program (Course Guidelines) Qualifying Exam Committee Meetings Committee on Higher Degrees Guidelines for Advisor-Student Discussions AB/SM Information Faculty & Research People Courses Clubs & Organizations Centers & Initiatives Alumni Stories Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02134 29 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 Footer - Social Media Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College Footer Diversity Mission Trademark Notice Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy