Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Leadership Menu UW Leadership Regents President Vice presidents Invite the president Provost Vice provosts Deans and chancellors Invite the provost Foundation Initiatives Population health Race & equity Innovation imperative Husky experience Teaching & learning in the 21st century Transforming administration program Institutional assessment effort Community engagement Tri-campus Home Leadership Initiatives Initiatives As the University of Washington pursues its mission of teaching, research and public service, the president and provost are leading several initiatives to enhance the excellence, impact and reach of our work. These multi-year initiatives involve faculty, students, staff and community members working together to find solutions to issues at the University and around the world. Population Health The Population Health initiative advances the health of people around the world. Population health encompasses not only the elimination of diseases and injuries, but also factors that influence health, such as the environment, education, mobility, policy and governance, poverty, racism, infrastructure, access to technology, urban planning and many more. Race and Equity Through the Race and Equity initiative, we are combatting the racism and inequities that persist here and throughout our society. The challenge for all of us — students, faculty, staff and university leadership — is to take personal responsibility for confronting our own biases and for addressing institutional racism. This work is not new. UW faculty, staff and students and the rest of our collective society have been in it for many years and in many ways. But the president and the UW community believe we have reached a moment where we must take collaborative, accelerated action. Innovation Imperative The Innovation Imperative encourages innovation by providing the space and opportunity for people from all backgrounds — from the humanities to the sciences — to connect, imagine and discover. We are doing this through efforts such as the Innovation District adjacent to the UW campus, a Global Innovation Exchange (GIX) partnership with Microsoft and Tsinghua University, makerspaces and entrepreneurs in residence, with CoMotion serving as a hub for the UW and regional innovation ecosystems. Husky Experience The Husky Experience encompasses the wide range of opportunities that exist inside and beyond the classroom to help undergraduate and graduate students discover their passions in life and work, develop an inclusive mindset and gain the skills that lead to meaningful and rewarding careers as community, academic and industry leaders. Efforts include U101, an online course that incoming students complete prior to campus orientation; the Husky 100, that recognizes 100 students each year who are making the most of their time at the UW; and the Husky Seed Fund, a student-led program that funds various projects. Teaching & Learning The Teaching & Learning initiative encourages inventive instruction at the UW, both in the classroom and online, with new integrated technologies and support for evidence-based teaching. It provides faculty with seamless delivery of support for teaching, mentoring, learning technology and classrooms. In addition, it addresses classroom technologies, instructional design, and evaluation of teaching for promotion and tenure. The initiative also works with peer institutions around the Pacific Rim to support culturally relevant, innovative teaching partnerships. Transforming Administration Program The Transforming Administration Program (TAP) seeks to ensure that our central units support our academic mission through a common vision, a culture of service and a commitment to continuous improvement. By celebrating success in these areas, TAP inspires and acknowledges excellent work. Efforts include updating the University’s online payroll system and merging the staffs within the Offices of the President and Provost. Institutional Assessment Effort The Institutional Assessment Effort prepares the UW’s accreditation response to the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU). It oversees 10-year academic program reviews, serves as a hub for UW assessment reports and data, and connects with other Washington state higher education groups. Community Engagement The Community Engagement Initiative prepares the UW’s application for the Carnegie Community Engagement classification. This initiative leverages the application process to gather information and data on the many ways the UW is engaged in the community and to provide strategic guidance for future engagement opportunities. Tri-Campus The Tri-Campus Initiative increases collaboration and takes advantage of opportunities that speak to the unique natures of our three campuses. It addresses areas of friction (both academic and administrative), works to reduce competition and sets priorities for near-term action. University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA