Georgetown University Open Search Form Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Footer News Events Giving Alumni Info For Students Faculty Staff/AAP Alumni Parents Georgetown University Who We Are The Whole Person Our Catholic & Jesuit Heritage Our History Student Stories Faculty Stories Alumni Stories Campus & City Living in DC Opportunities Getting Around Service & Action Campus Life Housing On-Campus Dining Clubs & Organizations Arts & Culture Community & Diversity Student Life Blog Wellness & Safety Sports & Fitness Health Center Safety & Emergency Preparedness Athletics External Link Academic Life Restless Inquiry Our Schools Areas of Study Study Abroad Research Centers and Programs Global Initiatives External Link Library System Admissions & Aid Undergraduate Admissions External Link Graduate Admissions Financial Aid External Link Commitment to Access Open Search Form Georgetown University Home Research Library System Library System Pursue research at Georgetown’s libraries, which include more than 3.5 million holdings. Whether your focus is on a specific discipline, interdisciplinary areas or emerging fields, our libraries offer academic resources, a maker hub, collaborative spaces and more. Explore our specialized legal, medical, scientific, bioethical and theological collections. 3.1M Books 130+ Annual workshops 24 Hour Access Search Our Library Collection Explore our extensive general collection or work with our specialized legal, medical, scientific, bioethical and theological collections. Use HoyaSearch, a one-stop search tool for books, e-books, videos, scholarly articles, digital media and more. Search Georgetown Collections Play Youtube Video Maker Hub What can you do with a 3D printer and a laser cutter? Take a look inside the Maker Hub at Lauinger Library to learn how you can tap into your creative energies to research, design and produce exciting and innovative prototypes. Visit the Maker Hub 1 of 1 Previous Slide Next Slide Did You Know? Riggs Memorial Library, located in historic Healy Hall, is one of the few remaining cast iron libraries in the United States. It was the university’s main library from 1891 to 1970 and now serves as a unique and attractive event space. Riggs Library Play Youtube Video Gelardin New Media Center Gelardin New Media Center in Lauinger Library gives students space and equipment to create multimedia projects. Create Bioethics Research Library The world’s largest collection on ethical issues in medicine and biomedical research resides at Georgetown. The Bioethics Research Library offers a wide range of books, journals, newspaper articles, regulations, codes, government publications and more on biomedical and professional ethics issues. It’s also a favorite study spot on campus. Blommer Science Library Blommer Science Library houses part of the science collections for the departments of biology, chemistry, computer science, mathematics and physics. It also provides information and research services for undergraduate and graduate programs in those fields. Dahlgren Memorial Library Located on the Georgetown University Medical Center campus, Dahlgren Memorial Library is the health sciences library for the university and MedStar Georgetown University Hospital. Edward Bennett Williams Law Library The Edward Bennett Williams Law Library supports the research and educational endeavors of the students and faculty of the Georgetown University Law Center. Its five floors house the nation’s fourth largest academic law collection – more than 1,200,000 volumes – as well as various technologies, study spaces, classrooms, a reading room and a self-service café. Georgetown University Qatar Library The Georgetown University Qatar Library serves students studying at Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service and other campuses for Education City in Doha, Qatar. The library of the University College of London, for example, is integrated within the GU-Q library. Joseph Mark Lauinger Memorial Library Lauinger Library houses humanities, social sciences and business materials and U.S. federal documents. Its Booth Family Center for Special Collections includes rare books, manuscripts, prints and the Maryland Province Archives. Check out Gelardin New Media Center for state-of-the-art equipment and training and the Maker Hub for budding Hoya entrepreneurs and designers. The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Knowledge Base and Library Collection Maternal and Child Health Knowledge Base and Library Collection is part of the National Center for Education in Maternal and Child Health. The Knowledge Base provides public health toolkits and guides for professionals, families and schools. The collection comprises full-text materials from professional fields and federal programs. Woodstock Theological Library Woodstock Theological Library, one of America’s oldest Catholic theological libraries, contains about 190,000 circulating volumes, 700 periodical titles, 17,500 rare book holdings and an up-to-date reference collection. It is especially strong in biblical studies, spirituality, church history, the Jesuits, liturgy and social aspects of Christianity. Contact Us Directory Visit Maps About Academic Calendar Careers Media Resources FacebookFacebook TwitterTwitter InstagramInstagram LinkedInLinkedIn YouTubeYouTube Georgetown University 37th and O Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20057 P. 202-687-0100 Georgetown University Privacy Policy Copyright Web Accessibility Notice of Non-Discrimination © 2022 Georgetown University Search Georgetown Search Close the Search Dialog