Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Brown University A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Search Give Explore Brown University's School of Public Health Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity Admissions Academics Research Faculty About Diversity A-Z Index People Directory Students Alumni Careers News Events Office of Diversity and Inclusion Home About People Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Resources News Site Navigation Home About People Leadership Staff Diversity and Inclusion Committee Staff Advisory Committee Center and Departmental DIAP Committee contacts Programming & Initiatives Support & Diversification of the Talent Pipeline Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff L.E.A.D. (Learning & Engaging Around Diversity) Public Health Womxn of Color Collective School of Public Health Students of Color Affinity Group Statement on Health Disparities and COVID-19 Training & Events Ongoing trainings Past Events Webinar Resources during COVID-19 Resources Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion in a Virtual Space Tips for Maintaining Equity and Inclusion for DEI Practitioners Resources & Considerations for Researchers, Instructors, and Students Diversity and inclusion offices Abuse, discrimination, and harassment Academic success Mental and physical health and wellness Title IX Resources Confidential Resources Non-Confidential Resources News Connecting staff The Connecting Talent Program is a professional development networking program designed to promote career networking within staff at the School of Public Health, and to connect you with other staff or faculty that you wish to have conversations with regarding professional development. In this program, as a School of Public Health staff member, you can self-select someone (staff or faculty within the School or within the University) that you would like to learn from over informal conversation. We will cover a maximum of $20 that you can use towards the cost of tea/coffee and dessert at the Faculty Club so that you can begin to build a network of meaningful professional relationships with staff and faculty from within the School and the Brown community. If you exceed this cost, we ask that you cover any excess out of pocket. The purpose of this program is to establish a relationship that will provide you with the opportunity to support both professional and personal development goals. You may decide to use this program for a once-off conversation, to deepen a relationship with an existing mentor, to build relationships with a team of individual formal or informal mentors that can support your development, or to connect with someone for the first time to cultivate a new professional relationship important for your professional advancement. In order to take advantage of this program we would ask that you sign up by filling out this form. This form will allow us to add your name to the list of School of Public Health staff participants at the Faculty Club (your guest name does not need to go in the form). This program will operate on a first come first serve basis until we’ve reached our allocated annual budget. We will then restart the program each year, allowing you to sign up again to meet with the same person or someone different. We hope that this program will be a rewarding experience. If you have any questions, please contact Jai-Me Potter-Rutledge at [email protected] or 401-863-9567. Sign-up form Language that may be useful: Please contact your “invited guest” that is the person you wish to learn from to support your professional development, to setup an initial meeting time. Below you will find sample emails you can use to initiate the conversation. For someone you don’t know: Dear X, My name is __________ and I currently work as _____________. I’m new to this field, and have great respect for the work you have done. I would like to hear your career story and ask a few questions about your career path. Could I ask for 60 minutes of your time over coffee or lunch to meet? If you have availability, I would schedule some time for us at the Faculty Club to meet over coffee and dessert. The cost of coffee and dessert will be covered by the School of Public Health Diversity and Inclusion Office. Please let me know a date and time that works best with your schedule. Thank you for your time and I look forward to speaking soon, Best, X For someone you know: Dear X, I have very much enjoyed and learned from the conversations we have had in the past, and I would like to ask a favor of you based on my respect for the way you have developed your career. I am at the point in my own career where I feel I need some mentoring to more effectively develop my _________ skills so that I can prepare to ___________. I was hoping that we could meet for coffee to discuss my current needs and see if this is something you are interested in and available for. In this relationship, I am proposing to meet with you for about 60 minutes “insert frequency” to discuss your counsel regarding areas I should address. I would schedule some time for us at the Faculty Club to meet over coffee and dessert, the cost of coffee and dessert will be covered by the School of Public Health Diversity and Inclusion Office. I will put together a meeting agenda for our time together. I will also make a list of any follow-up items that come out of our discussion, and report back on my progress. I know that your schedule is an exceptionally busy one, so if it simply isn’t possible to work this type of commitment into your other activities, I certainly understand. In that case, thank you for considering this request, and I will simply look forward to our future conversations! Best regards, Faculty Club Details The Faculty Club is open Monday-Friday for lunch from 11:30am-2pm and Tuesday-Friday the Lounge is open from 5:00pm-9:00pm. You are strongly encouraged to call ahead of time to make a reservation. Reservations can be made by calling 401-863-3023. Faculty Club website Connecting Talent program Connecting graduate students of color to faculty and staff Connecting staff Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Office of the Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Brown University School of Public Health 121 South Main Street Providence, RI 02912 Email [email protected] Twitter Twitter Brown University Giving to Brown 121 South Main Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903, USA 401-863-3375 Contact Us Newsletter Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility Brown Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top