Skip to main content Restrict my search to Admissions Submit Close Login to AccessUH Give to UH Search Undergraduate Admissions Discover & Connect Majors Connect with Current Students Meet Your Admissions Representative Visit Apply Freshman Students Freshman Admissions Appeals Self-Reporting Your Grades Transfer Students International Students International Freshman International Transfer Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military and Veteran Students Transferring Credit Adult Admissions Program Residency Requirements Academic Fresh Start Transcript Submission Guidelines Pay for College Make It Official New Student Orientation Transfer Orientation Family & Guest Orientation Resources COVID-19 Information Test Optional Admissions For Counselors For Parents and Families College Readiness Contact Us Who We Are UH Home Admissions Apply Military Students Apply Freshman Students Transfer Students International Students Former Students Post-Baccalaureate Students Visiting Students Military Students Residency Requirements Transferring Credit Academic Fresh Start Adult Admissions Program Transcript Submission Guidelines Military and Veteran Students When applying to the university, Military or Veteran applicants will apply as freshman or transfer students. Typically, Military or Veteran students will be evaluated as transfer applicants, if they have 15 or more college credits from the military or college coursework. Admission Criteria Freshman Admission Criteria must be met by Military or Veteran students considered as Freshman applicants. Certain majors have additional requirements for admission. Transfer Admission Criteria must be met by Military or Veteran students considered as Transfer applicants (with 15 or more credit hours). Certain majors have additional requirements for admission. If students are transferring with only military credit, they may only be considered for majors that do not have additional criteria. Steps to Apply Complete the University of Houston application for admission using either the ApplyTexas Application or The Common Application. Please submit only one application. Pay the nonrefundable $75 application fee ($90 for international students) with a credit card, debit card, or check. Checks can be made out to the University of Houston, 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. Transfer applicants are not eligible for an application fee waiver. Freshman Applicants: Have your ACT or SAT score(s) sent directly from the testing agency to us. Our code for ACT is 4236; SAT is 6870. Also have your most recent High School Transcript sent. Please note that SAT/ACT scores older than 5 years cannot be used. Transfer Applicants: Have your most recent official transcript from all colleges and universities attended sent to the University of Houston, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, 4434 University Drive, Houston, TX 77204. Military Transcripts (Methods of Delivery) Veteran or military students are required to submit all military transcripts. Transcripts can be submitted via the following methods: Joint Services Transcripts (JST), Airforce College, American Council on Education (ACE) transcripts must be sent as electronic PDFs from the service directly Army, Marine Corps, Navy, and Coast Guard transcripts can be requested at the Joint Services Transcript site. Air Force transcripts can be requested through the Air University or the CCAF Online Transcript System. For more information regarding how to send military transcripts please reach out to UH Veteran Services. Credit for Military Service Texas Education Code, Sec. 51.3042 makes military veterans who enroll at a Texas university eligible to receive undergraduate credit for military service. The university will award up to 12 hours of military service credit to satisfy any elective outside the student’s major or minor course requirements if: graduated from a public or private high school accredited by a generally recognized accrediting organization or from a high school operated by the United States Department of Defense; and is an honorably discharged former member of the armed forces of the United States who: completed at least two years of service in the armed forces; or was discharged because of a disability. Additional course credit for military service and training may be awarded with dean or dean’s designee approval. For consideration, student must submit an Undergraduate Transfer Credit Petition for review by the appropriate department and dean. All students interested in receiving credit for military credit must provide a copy of the DD-214 member 4 to the Office of Admissions. Fee Waiver Eligibility Military students may be eligible for a fee waiver under admissions policies. For Freshman military students, please see the NACAC fee waiver form. For transfer military students, students are not eligible for a fee waiver. Active Duty military students who can no longer attend in the semester that they have applied due to active duty placement may be eligible for a fee waiver once they are ready to reapply for the university. Please contact the Office of Admission directly for more information. Veteran Resources For other information and resources please see the links below: GI Bill Certification - Office of the University Registrar Hazlewood Act- Student Business Services FAFSA and Scholarships- Scholarships and Financial Aid Veteran Guidance and Other Services- Veteran Services Department of Defense Tuition Assistance (TA) University of Houston Houston, Texas 77204 (713) 743-2255 A–Z Index Academic Calendar Campus Carry Policy Campus Map Career Opportunities Directory Emergency Information Get Help Human Resources Library Mental Health Resources Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Office of the President Parking Report Copyright Infringement Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness Open Records/Public Information Act Texas Veterans Portal Tuition & Fees UH System Virtual Tour ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Fraud & Non-Compliance Hotline Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies