Skip to main content Skip to primary site menu Google Tag Manager Search form Search Explore Brown University Search Global Navigation Learn More About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Find A to Z Index People Directory Information for Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Top Destinations Global Brown Watson Institute Graduate School Alpert Medical School School of Public Health School of Engineering Division of Campus Life Home About Us Resources Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board Disability Justice Student Initiative JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives News & Events Site Navigation Home About Us Mission, Vision, Values Senior Team Executive Group Organizational Chart Office of the VP for Campus Life Resources Emergency Contacts Campus Resources Remote Access to Campus Resources Help for Students in Distress Graduate and Medical School Students Campus Life Staff Resources For Parents & Families Legal Services - Open Hours Student Initiatives Student Awards Buoy Newsletter The Culture of Respect at Brown Campus Life Student Advisory Board CLSAB 20-21 Membership CLSAB 21-22 Membership Disability Justice Student Initiative Disability History at Brown Timeline JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Staff Initiatives Campus Safety Working Group Campus Life Fellowship Campus Life Staff Excellence Awards Multi-Partial Team Professional Development Grant for Staff News & Events Campus Life in the News Campus Life Newsletter Wellness Residential Experience at Sternlicht Commons Space Programming Housing Selection FAQs Housing Application Leadership Development Initiative The Leadership Development Initiative (LDI), the precursor program to JUST Lead, was a student-driven initiative, supported by Campus Life, that seeks to empower and equip any student to lead in their communities at Brown and beyond. Our mission was to create a collaborative community of aspiring leaders that provides a hub for inclusive learning opportunities to foster empathetic, equitable, effective, and sustainable leadership. Through interviewing over 120 student leaders on campus via round table discussions in the Spring of 2019, we found that there were insufficient resources to prepare students to be leaders both in the Brown community and beyond. Current institutional structures were not meeting the breadth of student needs, and new support mechanisms needed to be created to supplement leadership education and training to enrich the entire Brown community. Accordingly, LDI seeked to: Create new formal and informal education and training opportunities in order to prepare students to lead now at Brown and in their future roles in society. Foster an inclusive and collaborative leadership community to empower students to become empathetic leaders and give back to the overall Brown community. Expand existing University-wide resources and structures to more effectively support students and their work. In a few short years, the Leadership Development Initiative transformed and evolved into JUST Lead, a new program in Campus Life Engagement. Questions? Contact [email protected]! Co-curricular leadership development is more critical than ever to rounding out the Brown experience. Working with the amazing team at the LDI has helped me grow my own skills leading teams, driving projects, and building community. Akash Altman ’20 Campus Life Fellow Co-Founder 2019-2020 Student Coordinator Brown as an institution supports the vision of creating leaders and change makers. I believe there is an opportunity for LDI to bring this vision to fruition by making leadership development available to all students in a focused and institutionalized manner. By connecting knowledge learned in class, experience in outside work, and skills learned through training and community building, I believe LDI can round off a co-curricular experience of growing as leaders. Damian Ballard ’20 Co-Founder 2019-2020 Student Coordinator JUST Lead Leadership Development Initiative Division of Campus Life Division of Campus Life Brown University Box 1896 20 Benevolent Street Providence, RI 02912 Phone: 401-863-1800 Email [email protected] Instagram Instagram Brown University Giving to Brown Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA 401-863-1000 Contact Us Maps Directions Career Opportunities Campus Safety Accessibility All Social Media © 2022 Brown University | Back to top