Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Health Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Our Services Appointments Health Topics Events Forms and Guidelines Our Organization News See All Services What's Open Now Patient Resources Quarantine and Isolation Support Coping Tools Immunization Compliance Top Services Birth Control Education Individual Counseling Primary Care Register with Disability Services Sexual Assault: Get Support STI Testing Support Groups Travel Medicine Urgent Medical Concerns Workshops and Trainings Cost of Service Overview Make an Appointment Same Day Service Emergency and After-hours Support Alcohol Body Image Concerns Marijuana Disabilities Other Drugs HIV Insurance Men's Health Mental Health and Well-Being Anxiety Depression Stress Nutrition Physical Activity Relationships Overview Academic Relationships Friendships Roommates Sexual and Reproductive Health Sleep Transgender and Gender Expansive Health Violence Prevention Prevention Consent What Is Sexual Assault? Supporting a Survivor What Is Relationship Abuse? Stalking What Is Sexual Harassment? Bystander Intervention-Step UP! Women's Health See All Events Sexual Assault Awareness Month Columbia Health Flu Season Information Virtual Naloxone Training About Columbia Health Who We Are Who We Serve Confidentiality, Patient Rights, & Patient Responsibilities Operating Philosophy Video Library Your Feedback Staff Directory Health Units Alice! Health Promotion Counseling and Psychological Services Disability Services Gay Health Advocacy Project (GHAP) Insurance Office Medical Services Sexual Violence Response Columbia Health You are here: Home All Services Step UP! Bystander Intervention Model Step UP! Bystander Intervention Model What Is a Bystander? All of us are bystanders when we observe actions or situations that jeopardize someone’s safety or well-being. One way to create a safe and healthy community is to be a prosocial bystander by taking action to help others. Being a prosocial bystander means being aware of what's happening around you and learning how to step in safely or seek help from others. How Can I Intervene? Stepping in can look like a lot of different things: telling a friend that you find their language offensive leaving a party early with a friend who is intoxicated to make sure they arrive home safely asking someone to go to the bathroom together so you can check in Additional Resources Columbia University: Sexual Respect Step UP! Bystander Intervention Step UP! Bystander Intervention teaches five basic steps: Notice the event Interpret the situation as a problem Assume personal responsibility Know how to help Step up! Tips for Intervening Safely Consider which intervention style is best: Direct—directly interacting with the people involved Indirect—asking others to intervene on your behalf, such as calling 911 Distract—creating a diversion to diffuse the situation Be aware of safety; never put yourself in harm's way. Intervene early, if you can, before the problem becomes a crisis. Remain calm while gathering information and providing the support you can. Request a Workshop Students who want to book a program for their group, organization, or community, should submit a Workshop Request Form. Faculty and staff can submit a request by emailing [email protected]. Learn more about the Quick Escape button. Make an Appointment Closed Sorry, we are closed. Open Now edit location Check out our office locations and hours Health Unit Sexual Violence Response Clinical Specialty Sexual and Reproductive Health Columbia Health Administration Wallach Hall, Suite 125, Mail Code 4202, 1116 Amsterdam Avenue · New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-2284 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close