Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Apply Visit Give Parents Search BC.edu Links Alumni Menu Main Nav Alumni Donate Back Back Close About Overview Alumni Association Alumni Board Alumni Association Staff Past Alumni Board Presidents Annual Report Leadership Terms of Service Join Our Team Connect Overview Volunteer Councils & Groups Chapters International Hong Kong London Germany Madrid Panama Paris Philippines Singapore Arizona Phoenix California Los Angeles Northern California Orange County Sacramento San Diego Colorado Denver Connecticut Fairfield Hartford Delaware Delaware District of Columbia Washington, D.C. Florida Fort Lauderdale Jacksonville Miami Orlando Palm Beach Sarasota Southwest Florida Tampa Georgia Atlanta Hawaii Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Indianapolis Kentucky Kentucky Louisiana New Orleans Maine Maine Maryland Baltimore Massachusetts Boston Cape Cod Western Massachusetts Michigan Detroit Minnesota Minnesota Missouri Kansas City St. Louis Nebraska Omaha Nevada Las Vegas New Hampshire New Hampshire New Jersey Jersey Shore New Jersey New York Albany Buffalo Long Island New York City Rochester Westchester North Carolina Charlotte Triangle Ohio Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Oregon Portland Pennsylvania Philadelphia Pittsburgh Puerto Rico Puerto Rico Rhode Island Rhode Island South Carolina South Carolina Tennessee Nashville Texas Austin Dallas Houston San Antonio Utah Utah Vermont Vermont Washington Seattle Wisconsin Milwaukee Class and School Engagement Spirituality On Eagles Wings Reflections Advent Reflections Lenten Reflections Reflections Reflections Social Media Pine Manor Alumni Hub Related Links Reunion BC Athletics Events Overview Reunion Weekend Pops on the Heights Family Weekend Global Days of Service Distinguished Volunteer Awards Dinner Winter Wonderland Benefits & Services Overview Career & Networking Alumni Benefits Giving Overview Gift Policy The Impact of Your Gift Give Online Gift Planning Giving Societies The 1863 Society McElroy Circle Bapst Circle Fulton Circle Gasson Circle Monan Circle The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Boston College Call Center Apply to Work at the Boston College Call Center Donate Close Directory A to Z Listing Search Alumni & Friends Search BC.edu Find pages or people Search Close Close Apply Visit Give Parents BC.EDU LINKS Boston College About BC Admission Academics Research Campus Life Jesuit, Catholic Resources Academic Calendar BC Magazine BC News Directories Webcams Offices, Services, Resources Formation Athletics Global Agora Portal Emergency Jobs at BC Libraries Bookstore Maps & Directions Hours Events BC Dining Close Giving Societies Home Giving Giving Societies Giving Societies The 1863 Society The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The Shaw Society Donor Recognition and Appreciation When you make a gift to BC, you not only ensure the continued mission of the University, you're also making a financial decision that will benefit you and your family for years to come. Depending on the size of your gift, there are a number of benefits that are open to you, including membership in one of our giving societies and invitations to exclusive events. The 1863 Society The 1863 Society recognizes annual leadership donors who make an investment in the University with a gift of $1,000 or more. Membership in the 1863 Society gives you direct access to the University and makes an immediate impact on the student experience. The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society The William B. Neenan, S.J., Society celebrates and recognizes Boston College's most loyal donors—those alumni, parents, and friends who have made a gift, at any level, for any purpose, for two or more consecutive years. The Shaw Society Now more than 2,800 members strong, the Shaw Society honors Joseph Coolidge Shaw, S.J., who helped establish Boston College with his legacy gifts of books and the proceeds of his life insurance policy. Members receive updates on the latest campus news, among other exclusive benefits. BC Law Giving Societies The Boston College Law School giving societies—Dean’s Council and Drinan Society—honor BC Law’s most generous and most loyal donors. Dean’s Council members play an important role in shaping the future of BC Law, receive campus updates, and attend exclusive events throughout the year. The Drinan Society recognizes loyal donors who support BC Law in two or more consecutive years. Back To Top Back To Top Boston College Alumni Association Cadigan Alumni Center 140 Commonwealth Ave. Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Accessibility Emergency Contact Notice of Nondiscrimination Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Boston College For updates on Boston College's reopening for fall semester visit bc.edu/reopen. Ok