Skip to main content Toggle subitems Main navigation Meet Princeton Toggle sub-items In Service of Humanity Facts & Figures History Honors & Awards Contact Us Visit Us Our Faculty Our Students Our Alumni Our Staff Our Leadership Academic Freedom and Free Expression Academics Toggle sub-items Studying at Princeton Library Areas of Study Humanities Social Sciences Engineering Natural Sciences Advising Academic Calendar Course Tools Learning Abroad Career Development Continuing Education Innovative Learning Research Toggle sub-items Engineering & Applied Science Humanities Natural Sciences Social Sciences Interdisciplinary Approach Dean for Research Office External Partnerships Facilities & Labs One Community Toggle sub-items Lifelong Connections Student Life Arts & Culture Athletics Living in Princeton, N.J. Housing & Dining Activities & Organizations Cultural & Affinity Groups Health & Wellness Religious Life Serving the Public Good Families Admission & Aid Toggle sub-items Affordable for All About Financial Aid Current Undergraduate Financial Aid Undergraduate Admission Graduate Admission For International Students Utility menu News Events Work at Princeton Services & Resources Work-Life Balance Links for Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Giving Search Sites & People × Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Email Print Center for gender and sexuality ushers in a new era of support for women and LGBTQIA+ students at Princeton Denise Valenti, Office of Communications April 14, 2021, 11 a.m. A new center for gender and sexuality at Princeton will launch in fall 2021. The Rainbow Lounge and Women*s Space will continue to operate separately within the new center at Frist Campus Center (pictured), allowing for more personalized services and to maintain affinity space. Photo by Danielle Alio, Office of Communications Building upon the historical legacy and impactful work of Princeton’s Women*s Center and LGBT Center, a new center for gender and sexuality at Princeton University will launch in fall 2021, allowing staff to better serve individuals and groups across campus, said LaTanya Buck, dean for diversity and inclusion in the Office of the Vice President for Campus Life. “Students’ identities, experiences and needs, and the ways in which students experience college campuses have evolved over the years,” Buck said. “Under the umbrella of a new center for gender and sexuality — and with the energy of a renewed commitment to improve understanding and facilitate belonging for all students — we will be better able to carry out our mission to eliminate discrimination and injustice at Princeton based on sex, gender and sexual identity.” With a focus on the student co-curricular experience, the center will engage all members of the Princeton community through education, training and programming on gender and sexuality. Staff members will provide individual and group support for students, and serve as a resource and content expert for the campus. Small-group listening sessions with students, faculty and staff will be held in late April to facilitate the transition and help name the new center, Buck said. Approximately 10 listening sessions are planned, each lasting 75 minutes and including 10 participants. (Sign-up details are below.) “This new center will allow us to amplify the voices and experiences of our LGBTQIA+ and women-identified students,” said W. Rochelle Calhoun, vice president for campus life. The new center will bring together the staff of the Women*s Center and LGBT Center, maintaining current services and allowing for more expansive programming that acknowledges the many intersections of gender and sexual identity. The center will affirm and assist students in their exploration of sexuality, gender, asexuality, agender, race, ability and religion, among other identities. The Women*s Center was founded in 1971 by some of the Princeton’s first undergraduate women. Building upon a legacy of activism and advocacy, the Women*s Center has remained committed throughout the years to inclusive and intersectional feminism, and centering equity and racial justice, particularly for people of marginalized identities. Princeton’s LGBT Center dates back to 1989, when the offices of the Dean of the Chapel and the Dean of Student Life began hiring graduate students to help organize LGBT student activities. At the time, Princeton University was the sixth university in the country to create an LGBT coordinator position, which evolved into a full-time professional position in 2001. The LGBT Center was officially launched in 2005. The yet-unnamed center for gender and sexuality will benefit from the leadership of a newly created assistant dean for diversity and inclusion/director position, which will give the center more institutional leverage than it had in the past, Buck said. An assistant director and two program coordinators, each with a programmatic and support emphasis on LGBTQIA+ and women/femme/gender identities, will also be part of the leadership team. The Rainbow Lounge and Women*s Space will continue to operate separately within the new center at Frist Campus Center, allowing for more personalized services and to maintain affinity space. The new center also will allow for more synergy and collaboration with the Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies (GSS) and its curricular experience, Buck said. GSS has undergone its own evolution at Princeton, launching as women’s studies in 1982. It was renamed gender and sexuality studies in 2011 to reflect the trajectory and expanded reach of the teaching and scholarship among Princeton faculty, and in the field more generally. GSS recently named Wallace Best, professor of religion and African American studies, as its first male and first African American director. “There is an opportunity for us to continue to explore gender and sexuality through a critical and intersectional lens, engage GSS students’ and scholars’ research, and partner on co-curricular experiences like programming and mentorship,” Buck said. Listening sessions for the new center will be conducted during the weeks of April 19 and 26. Interested participants may sign up to join sessions for students and for faculty and staff. For inquiries, please contact the Office of Diversity and Inclusion – Campus Life at odi@princeton.edu. Related Stories New Gender + Sexuality Resource Center at Princeton to serve women, femme and LGBTQIA+ students Read more Princeton recognizes 50 years of community and inclusion Read more LaTanya Buck named dean for diversity and inclusion Read more Wallace Best leads the Program in Gender and Sexuality Studies into a dynamic new era Read more Incoming Princeton students learn powerful lessons about each other during Orientation Read more Jarvis named Princeton's LGBT Center director Read more An update on Princeton’s ongoing efforts to address systemic racism Read more View All News Contact links Contact Us Accessibility Advanced People Search Media Inquiries Website Feedback Visiting links Plan a Visit Maps & Shuttles Varsity Athletics Giving to Princeton Academic links Library Academic Calendar Student Links Faculty & Staff Links Footer social media Facebook Twitter Instagram Snapchat LinkedIn YouTube Social Media Directory Equal Opportunity and Nondiscrimination at Princeton University: Princeton University believes that commitment to principles of fairness and respect for all is favorable to the free and open exchange of ideas, and the University seeks to reach out as widely as possible in order to attract the ablest individuals as students, faculty, and staff. In applying this policy, the University is committed to nondiscrimination on the basis of personal beliefs or characteristics such as political views, religion, national or ethnic origin, race, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, age, marital or domestic partnership status, veteran status, disability, genetic information and/or other characteristics protected by applicable law in any phase of its education or employment programs or activities. In addition, pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and supporting regulations, Princeton does not discriminate on the basis of sex in the education programs or activities that it operates; this extends to admission and employment. Inquiries about the application of Title IX and its supporting regulations may be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education or to the University's Sexual Misconduct/Title IX Coordinator. See Princeton’s full Equal Opportunity Policy and Nondiscrimination Statement. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 Operator: (609) 258-3000 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Subfooter links Copyright Infringement Privacy Notice