Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. Office of the Bursar Bursar right arrow down arrow Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Tuition Guarantee Policy Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance How Fees Are Determined Prior Year Tuition & Fees right arrow down arrow Academic Year 2021-2022 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2020-2021 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Academic Year 2019-2020 right arrow down arrow Graduate & Professional Students Non-Resident Surcharges Program Fees Special Course Fees Student Health Insurance Paying your Bill right arrow down arrow Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Refunds right arrow down arrow Direct Deposit Enrollment Refund Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Refund Appeals right arrow down arrow Tuition Refund Appeals Process Frequently Asked Questions Tuition Insurance Past Due Accounts right arrow down arrow Collections Payment Plans Collections Timeline Loans right arrow down arrow Short Term Loan Loan Repayment Student Loan FAQ's Tax Forms & Disclosures right arrow down arrow Form 1098-T right arrow down arrow Detailed Explantion of the 1098-T Form 1098-T FAQs Form 1042-S Banking Contract Disclosure Contact Us right arrow down arrow The Team Bursar Contact Form Home » About UC » Office of the Bursar » Paying your Bill » Payment Options Set Navigation title in component Payment Options Tuition Payment Plan International Payments Scholarship Payments Billed Sponsored Aid Veterans Benefits Payment Options The University of Cincinnati wants to make the payment of your bill as convenient and easy as possible. We offer several methods of payment including electronic check, credit card, personal check or money order, college savings plan, financial aid and tuition remission. A non-refundable $30 service fee will be charged to a students account for payments returned for any reason. If a student has multiple returned payments, they could be required to make all future payments with certified funds such as a cashiers check or money order. Online: eCheck/ACH or Credit Card To pay your bills by electronic check or credit card, the university partners with Higher One to provide secure online payments via CASHNet 24 hour a day. This is our preferred method of payment as payments made via CASHNet will post to a students bill within minutes of confirmation. To make a payment online, log in to the Catalyst Student Portal Click on the "My Finances" tile In the "Account Summary" click "MAKE A PAYMENT" You will be transferred to CASHNet securely hosted by our payment partner, Higher One. Once the payer is transferred to CASHNet payers will be offered 2 methods of payment, eCheck/ACH or credit card. This payment method is free when you utilize your bank account and bank routing number. There is a non-refundable convenience fee to pay by credit card. The convenience fee is 2.75% when using a U.S. credit card and 4.25% when using an international credit card. Please note, debit cards should not be used. Instead payers should select the eCheck/ACH option and enter the bank account and routing number of the bank account which is not the same as the debit card number. Parent/Guest Online Payment How-To right arrow down arrow Parents, grandparents, a spouse, etc. who want to pay a student's bill will first need to be given parent/guest access to Catalyst. The UC student will initiate this process in Catalyst. To make a payment online login to the Catalyst Parent Portal Click the "Delegated Access" tile Select "Financial" on the left side of the page Click "Pay Bill" You will be transferred to CASHNet securely hosted by our payment partner, Higher One Once the payer is transferred to CASHNet payers will be offered 2 methods of payment, eCheck/ACH or credit card. This payment method is free when you utilize your bank account and bank routing number. There is a non-refundable convenience fee to pay by credit card. The convenience fee is 2.75% when using a U.S. credit card and 4.25% when using an international credit card. Please note, debit cards are processed as credit cards and will be charged the convenience fee or be rejected from processing by your financial institution. If you have delegated access for multiple students, you will follow the same steps mentioned above. Once in CASHNet, you can alternate between students by clicking the pencil icon next to the students name in the "Overview." By Mail To pay your bills by mail via check or money order (DO NOT MAIL CASH) make checks and money orders payable to the "University of Cincinnati". Include the student’s name and UC ID on the check or money order. Students will receive an email notification once the payment is received and posted. For the U.S. Postal Service mail your payment to: University of Cincinnati PO Box 932605 Cleveland, OH 44193 For other courier services such as FedEx or UPS send your payment to: University of Cincinnati Box 932605 4100 West 150th Street Cleveland, OH 44135 College Savings Plan To pay your bill with a College Savings Plan please direct your account administrator to make checks payable to the "University of Cincinnati". They will also need to include the student’s name and UC ID (M#) on the check. We recommend contacting your College Savings account administrator at least 4 weeks before the fee payment deadline to ensure that the funds are received by the due date. For the U.S. Postal Service they should mail payment to: University of Cincinnati PO Box 932605 Cleveland, OH 44193 The University of CIncinnati does not invoice college savings plans, including Florida Prepaid. Your educational savings plan provider will accept a copy of your term bill when you submit your request. Financial Aid With the exceptiocial-aid/manage-aid/loan-management/loan-posting.ge-aid/billing-refundsn of Federal Work-Study, your financial aid funds will apply directly to your online bill. Pending aid disburses 10 days before the start of your classes. You can view your scheduled disbursement date by clicking the “My Finances” tile in Catalyst followed by “Manage Financial Aid” on the left side of the page. Then click “View Financial Aid” and select the academic year. A disbursement schedule for each semester is listed. Next to each semester is a hyperlink that reads “View Scheduled Disbursement Date.” Outstanding Financial Aid Checklist items on your to-do list can delay the disbursment of your financial aid. Tuition Remission Tuition remission is available for eligible faculty, staff and dependents according to the University of Cincinnati Board of Trustees Rules and Regulations. The tuition remission program for faculty and staff pays the instructional fee and various other fees for eligible employees who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. The tuition remission program for dependents (spouse/domestic partner/unmarried dependent children) pays the instructional fee and the Non-Resident Surcharge (if applicable) only for eligible dependents who take courses at the University of Cincinnati. General fees, co-op fees, books, room and board, late fees, application fees, confirmation fees, etc., are not covered by tuition remission. Details regarding UC's Tuition Remission Policy, including the necessary application and certification forms and be found at Human Resource's Tuition Remission Site. Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati Office of the Bursar University of Cincinnati 2618 McMicken Circle 500 University Pavilion Cincinnati, OH 45221 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top