Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Law Menu Baylor Law About News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Transactional Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Legal Writing Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Apply Finance Visit Admitted Students Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School Baylor Law School MAD Conference 2018 Baylor>Baylor Law>About>Special Events>LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference>2018 | Making a Difference Conference MAD Conference 2018 Making a Difference Conference "Passion for Justice" Using your law degree to pursue your passion and serve those in your community Hosted by Baylor Law School and LEAD Counsel Friday, February 9, 2018, 2:00 PM – 5:30 PM Baylor Law School Jim Kronzer Appellate Advocacy Classroom & Courtroom, Room 127, Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive, Waco, TX 76706 Reception to follow An Open Invitation The goal of the Making a Difference Conference is to inspire law students and lawyers to use their legal training to make meaningful contributions to their communities. The theme of the second annual conference is Passion for Justice and aims to inspire and equip attendees to become servant leaders and to put their own passions into practice. The speakers and panels will focus upon ways in which law students and lawyers can combine their passions with their legal training – both now and in their future careers – to expand access to justice. Areas of focus will include the state of access to justice in Texas, international efforts to expand access, and human trafficking. Attendees with hear stories from those in the legal profession who have modeled exemplary public service in these areas. This conference is open to the public. Any interested person is welcome to attend. For additional information, please contact LEADCounsel@baylor.edu. Baylor law students will receive two dual professional and leadership development credits for attending the full conference.* This course has been approved for Minimum Continuing Legal Education credit by the State Bar of Texas Committee on MCLE in the amount of 3 credit hours of which 2 credit hours will apply to legal ethics/professional responsibility credit. *If you are a non-Baylor law student but have a similar requirement for professional development at your institution, please email LEADCounsel@baylor.edu with the correct contact information at your law school. We will contact your school regarding credit for your attendance. Schedule of Events 2:00 p.m. Welcome Morgan Blair, LEAD Counsel President 2:05 p.m. Introduction Leah W. Teague Associate Dean, Baylor Law School Founder, LEAD Mentoring Program 2:10 p.m. Access to Justice in Texas A View from the Bench Speaker: Hon. Nathan Hecht, Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Texas 3:10 - 3:15 p.m. Transition Period 3:15 p.m. Combating Human Trafficking Choosing a Cause: Applying Your Passion Speakers: Shannon Sedgwick Davis, CEO, Bridgeway Foundation Kirsta Melton, Deputy Criminal Chief, Office of the Texas Attorney General 4:15 - 4:30 p.m. Dr. Pepper Float Break 4:30 p.m. Keynote Address Global Justice Speaker: Jim Gash Associate Dean for Strategic Planning and External Relations, Professor of Law Pepperdine Law School 5:30 p.m. Closing Remarks: Brad Toben, Dean, Baylor Law School A Reception Will Be Held Immediately Following Closing Remarks (Heavy hors d'oeuvres) The reception will be held outside the Jim Kronzer Appellate Advocacy Classroom & Courtroom, Room 127 About the Speakers Access to Justice in Texas Speaker Hon. Nathan Hecht Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Texas Nathan L. Hecht is the 27th Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas. He has been elected to the Court six times, first in 1988 as a Justice, and most recently in 2014 as Chief Justice. He is the longest-serving Member of the Court in Texas history and the senior Texas appellate judge in active service. Throughout his service on the Court, Chief Justice Hecht has overseen revisions to the rules of administration, practice, and procedure in Texas courts, and was appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States to the federal Advisory Committee on Civil Rules. Chief Justice Hecht is also active in the Court's efforts to assure that Texans living below the poverty level, as well as others with limited means, have access to basic civil legal services. Chief Justice Hecht was appointed to the district court in 1981 and was elected to the court of appeals in 1986. Before taking the bench, he was a partner in the Locke firm in Dallas. Chief Justice Hecht holds a B.A. degree with honors in philosophy from Yale University, and a J.D. degree cum laude from the SMU School of Law, where he was a Hatton W. Sumners Scholar. He clerked for Judge Roger Robb on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and was a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy Reserve Judge Advocate General Corps. Chief Justice Hecht is a Life Member of the American Law Institute and a member of Council. He is also a member of the Texas Philosophical Society. Human Trafficking Panel Shannon Sedgwick Davis CEO, Bridgeway Foundation Shannon Sedgwick Davis is CEO of the Bridgeway Foundation, the charitable giving arm of Bridgeway Capital Management, Inc. An attorney, Davis is a passionate advocate for social justice and International human rights. She is a well-known strategist engaged in promoting peace and ending human atrocities across our globe. Davis is a recipient of The Spirit of Mcmurry award, given annually to one outstanding alumni, as well as Baylor Law School's 2011 Young Lawyer of the year award. Davis' work has been featured a number of times on radio, television, and through print media. Davis previously served as Vice-President of Geneva Global, and Director of Public Affairs at International Justice Mission. She is currently a board member of several organizations within the U.S. and abroad including The Elders, Humanity United, and Toms Shoes. Kirsta Melton Deputy Criminal Chief, Office of the Texas Attorney General Kirsta Leeburg Melton is the Deputy Criminal Chief of the Human Trafficking and Transnational/Organized Crime Section of the Office of the Texas Attorney General. From 2000-2014 she prosecuted in the Family Justice Unit of the Bexar County District Attorney’s Office, combating human trafficking, physical and sexual abuse of children and family violence, and in 2012 helped establish and lead the Bexar County DA’s Human Trafficking Unit. Melton has chaired the Alamo Area Coalition against Trafficking, a regional multi-disciplinary group of law enforcement, non-profits, government agencies, business people, and academics assembled to coordinate the fight against human trafficking. She has trained more than 10,000 people across the state on human trafficking and has testified on multiple occasions before the Texas legislature on trafficking related issues. Melton graduated from Cornell University in 1993 and received her J.D. and Masters in Public Affairs from the University of Texas in 1998. In addition to prosecuting, Melton is one of the founding members of Truckers against Trafficking, a nationwide campaign dedicated to educating, equipping, empowering and mobilizing the trucking industry in the fight against human trafficking. Keynote Address Speaker Jim Gash Associate Dean for Strategic Planning and External Relations, Professor of Law, Pepperdine Law School Jim Gash is a Professor of Law in his nineteenth year of teaching. After graduating summa cum laude from Abilene Christian University in 1989, he attended law school at Pepperdine, serving as the Editor-in-Chief of the Pepperdine Law Review and graduating first in his class in 1993. After graduating, Gash clerked for the Honorable Edith Jones on the United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit in Houston, Texas, after which he practiced law for Kirkland & Ellis in D.C. and L.A. until joining the faculty at Pepperdine Law School in 1999. After being granted tenure in 2005, he served as Dean of Students from 2005-12. He currently serves as the Associate Dean for Strategic Planning and External Relations. In 2010, Gash began traveling periodically to Uganda to help imprisoned juveniles waiting for their day in court. He now directs the Sudreau Global Justice Program and has returned to Uganda twenty-one times to help other juvenile and adult prisoners secure access to justice. At the invitation of the Chief Justice of Uganda, Professor Gash became a Specialist Advisor to the High Court in January of 2012 and moved his family to Uganda for six months. In recognition of his ongoing work in the developing world, Professor Gash received the 2013 Warren Christopher Award, which is presented to California's International Lawyer of the Year. His book "Divine Collision: An African Boy, An American Lawyer, and Their Remarkable Battle for Freedom" was published in 2016, and a documentary called "REMAND" featuring His work was released in 2017 and has won numerous film festivals awards. About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Sheila & Walter Umphrey Law Center 1114 South University Parks Drive One Bear Place #97288 Waco, Texas 76798 tel (254) 710-1911 fax (254) 710-2316 Building Hours Monday - Friday 8:00am - 5:00pm Saturday - Sunday Closed Holidays Closed Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 About News Submit News Mission Statement and Core Values Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Practice Ready Law Professors, Life Coaches The Quarter System Quick Facts Public Service Legal Clinics Special Events LEAD Counsel - Making a Difference Conference 2021 | Making a Difference Conference Baylor Law Students 2020 | Vision for Leadership Conference 2019 | Making a Difference Conference 2018 | Making a Difference Conference 2017 | Making a Difference Conference Starr Federalist Papers Lecture Series Presented by John and Marie Chiles R. Matt Dawson Lecture Series Notice of Non-Discrimination Building Hours Contact Us History 100 Years of Practice Court Baylor Law Virtual Tours Academics Academic Calendar Academic Services Advocacy Top Gun National Mock Trial Competition 2021 Top Gun XII Top Gun XI - How We Did It 2020 Top Gun XI 2019 Top Gun X 2018 Top Gun Competition 2017 Top Gun Competition 2016 Top Gun Competition 2015 Top Gun Competition Transactional Practice Ready Transactional Courses Professional Tracks & Capstones Transactional Dual Degree Programs Transactional Faculty Transactional Law & Practice Court Legal Writing Business Law Boot Camp The Closer National Transactional Law Competition 2023 | The Closer 2022 | The Closer 2021 | The Closer 2020 | The Closer 2019 | The Closer 2018 | The Closer 2017 | The Closer In House Counsel Externship Program Competition Opportunities and Results for Current Students Transactional Law Mentorship Program Degree Programs Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Baylor Law Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Practice Court Program Legal Clinics Entrepreneurship Clinic Estate Planning Clinic Immigration Clinic IP Law Clinic Trial Advocacy Clinic Veterans Clinic Transactional Capstones Public Service Baylor Law's Pro Bono and Public Service Program Adoption Day People's Law School People's Law School | 2022 People's Law School 2022 Class Schedule People's Law School 2022 Survey People's Law School | 2021 Service Opportunities for Law Students Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form Waco McLennan Pro Bono Challenge Sign-up Waco McLennan Outstanding Pro Bono Advocate Awards DAYL Pro Bono Challenge DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Hours Recording Form DAYL Pro Bono Challenge Sign-Up DAYL Pro Bono Annual Challenge Results DAYL Pro Bono Partners Service Award Resources Student Awards Competitions Intramural Opportunities Intermural Opportunities Externships Leadership Development Program Legal Mapmaker Legal Mapmaker Program Payment Study Abroad Legal Writing Integrated Approach Writing Courses Writing Faculty The Ultimate Writer Competition The Paper Chase Legal Writing Competition Study Abroad at St Andrews Baylor Law Review Admissions Explore Student Profiles Adan Abu-Hakmeh Lexie Ammons Allison Barber Paolo Ferrel Paige Heitkamp Drake Pew Leah Reyes Sami Shaffer Program Overview Advocacy Transactional Practice Legal Writing Experiential Learning Quarter System Community Career Development Curriculum More Information Request a Viewbook Is Law School Right for You? Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Accreditation Notice of Non-Discrimination Apply Dates and Deadlines Application Requirements JD Applicants Transfer and Visiting Student Applicants International Student Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Denied Application Review Quick Facts Application Status Checker Admissions FAQs Admissions Policies Finance Estimated Costs Financial Aid FAQs Scholarships Loans Veteran Information Financial Aid Step-by-Step Visit Individual Visits External Recruiting Events Open Houses Interviews Virtual Tours Pre-Law Visits Visiting Waco Finding the Admissions Office Admitted Students Next Steps Admitted Students Packet Scholarship Reconsideration Request Pay Your Seat Deposit Apply for Financial Aid Update Your Contact Information Set Up Your Student ID and Email Visits and Events Schedule an Individual Visit Attend an Admitted Students Day Watch a Virtual Tour Attend an Admitted Students Meal View a Recorded Session Attend an Open House Registration and Orientation Quick Facts Executive LL.M. in Litigation Management Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Alumni & Giving Alumni Resources Get Involved Give Back Baylor Law School Alumni Information Update Submit Alumni Note Career Development Employers Current Students Employment Statistics Contact the CDO Baylor Law School Current Students Academic Services Calendars Health & Wellness Policies and Feedback Professional Development Leadership Development Student Life Equity, Civil Rights and Title IX ABA Required Disclosures Law School Home Events Event Calendars Emergency and Closure Information Faculty & Staff Faculty and Staff Directory Faculty Scholarship Faculty and Staff News Faculty and Staff Resources Law School Home Library Library Collection Electronic Resources Library Services Policies and Information Library Online Catalog Technology Law School