Skip to main content Skip to main content Prospective Students Current Students Alumni More Faculty/Staff News Media Parents Skip to main content Apply Apply Give Give Follow Us Follow Us Twitter Follow Us Facebook Follow Us Instagram Follow Us LinkedIn Follow Us YouTube Follow Us Social Stream Search the SMU website. Search the SMU website. Navigate Search Skip to main content Risk Management Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management & Fire Safety Emergency Management Fire Safety Environmental Health & Safety Environmental Health & Safety Occupational Safety Occupational Health Research & Education Safety Training Services International & Domestic Travel International & Domestic Travel Faculty Staff Travel Health, Safety, & Emergencies International Health & Safety Resources Student Resources Travel to a Restricted Region Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance Incident Reporting Third Party Event Insurance Information Insurance Programs Protection of Minors Program Strategic Risk Assessment Travel University Driving Programs Resources Resources About Event Safety Topics (A-Z) Training ☰ Office of Risk Management ORM Risk & Insurance Insurance Programs Insurance Programs SMU maintains a comprehensive program of insurance to address a variety of exposures; more information on some of these lines of insurance is included below. The Office of Risk Management is responsible for evaluating loss exposures and negotiating appropriate insurance coverage to protect the University’s financial assets. Information on a select number of SMU's policies is included below. Auto Insurance SMU insures University-Controlled Vehicles, which includes SMU-owned and leased vehicles, as well as courtesy vehicles and those rented on university business. Read More... Property Property insurance offers coverage for all University real property. Prompt reporting as soon as applicable is required. Read More... Workers' Compensation SMU's Workers' Compensation is designed to provide insurance coverage to employees who sustain an injury or illness while in the course and scope of their employment. Read More... General Liability General Liability Insurance protects the University from claims brought by third parties in the areas of: Bodily Injury, Premises Liability, Personal and Advertising Injury, Products Completed and Other Coverage Read More... International Travel Accident-Only Policies SMU provides supplemental, accident-only policies to its students, faculty, and staff who travel outside of the United States on an SMU-sponsored trip. Read More... Cyber Liability Cyber liability insurance helps respond in the event of a cyberattack or data breach. Read More... Insurance Policy Insurance Programs Auto Insurance General Liability International Travel Accident Property Workers' Compensation Apply Visit School Cox School of Business Dedman College of Humanities and Sciences Dedman School of Law Lyle School of Engineering Meadows School of the Arts Moody School of Graduate and Advanced Studies Perkins School of Theology Simmons School of Education and Human Development Explore SMU Magazine Academic Calendar Events Calendar Guildhall Continuing and Professional Education Athletics Employment at SMU Campus Reporting a Bias Incident Report Sexual Misconduct Emergency Preparedness Student Life George W. Bush Presidential Center SMU Libraries Meadows Museum Tate Lecture Series Contact Us Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275 twitter facebook instagram linkedin youtube share