COVID-19LeadershipResearchDirectoriesGive to WSUmyWSUOneStop Quick Links Close Menu Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW COVID-19 Leadership Research Directories Give to WSU myWSU OneStop Academic Calendar Apply Now! A-Z Directory Blackboard Calendar of Events Office Hours Policies and Procedures Schedule of Courses Shocker Store Student Webmail Technology HelpDesk Transfer to WSU University Libraries Search Close Menu ACADEMICSADMISSIONSSTUDENT LIFEATHLETICSABOUTAPPLY NOW Award Management (Post-Award Services ) Section Menu Post Award Documents and Forms Post-Award Services FAQs Post-award services assist after the grant, contract or cooperative agreement has been awarded to the University. Research post-award staff establish project accounts and budgets outlined by the University and works with the principal investigator who manages the work and funds awarded according to the funding agreement. Roles & Responsibilities The PI or Co-Pi's primary roles in managing sponsored project accounts are: Determining allocability of costs (e.g., benefit to the project). The PI, or their staff with firsthand knowledge of the project, has primary responsibility for determining whether a cost benefits a project; Monitoring expenditures using Self-Service Finance or Reporting Services Notifying Post-Award staff when significant changes occur with the project (e.g., change in scope of work or level of effort) Understanding the terms and conditions of the agreement Submitting timely technical reports. Our office is here to help you as the PI or Co-PI with account management responsibilities. If a PI desires to change any aspect of the award, he/she should contact the Office of Research for guidance and approval. Examples of changes include: re-budgeting, no-cost extensions, change of scope, change of PI, change of effort, change of key personnel, and/or adding a collaborator. The Office of Research should also be contacted for issues pertaining to pre-award costs (spending prior to the receipt of award notice), and any administrative or contractual issues that require the prior approval of the sponsor. For more information or questions please call the Office of Research main office at 978-3285. Contact Us 1845 Fairmount St. Campus Box 007 Wichita, Kansas 67260-0007 Judi McBroom Associate Director, Post Award Judith.McBroom@wichita.edu (316) 978-6848 1845 Fairmount St.Wichita, Kansas 67260 USA (316) 978-3456 Request InfoVisitApply Contact Us Virtual Tour Campus Map and Directions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube TikTok Wichita State has helped me put marketing strategy in a real-world perspective. I really had to, essentially, trust myself.Lauryn McIntyre, senior in marketing Alumni & FriendsGive to WSU A-Z Index Freedom of Expression Policies and Procedures Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination Title IX Campus Safety Accessibility Public Information Website Support KBOR Freedom of Expression Statement HLC Accreditation © 2022 Wichita State University Wichita State University (“WSU”) does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its education programs, activities, admissions and employment. ©