Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Academics Menu Baylor>Academics Reputation for Academic Excellence You'll find more electives, options, and room to explore than at a smaller institution. With the range of Baylor's offerings, you can pursue almost any career path. Choose from 142 baccalaureate programs in fields as varied as business, education, nursing, pre-medicine, music, and computer science. In addition, Baylor offers 75 master's, 42 doctoral programs, and the Education Specialist program. For more information about the academic programs at Baylor, select from the links below to visit the web sites for schools, colleges, centers, institutes and other programs. Colleges & Schools • College of Arts & Sciences • Diana R. Garland School of Social Work • George W. Truett Theological Seminary • Graduate School • Hankamer School of Business • Honors College • Law School • Louise Herrington School of Nursing • Music, School of • Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences • School of Education • School of Engineering & Computer Science Centers • Academy for Teaching and Learning • Baylor Center for Developmental Disabilities • Baylor Center for School Leadership • Center for Astrophysics, Space Physics & Engineering Research (CASPER) • Center for Christian Music Studies • Center for Community Research & Development • Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development • Center for Global Engagement • Center for Ministry Effectiveness • Center for Nonprofit Leadership and Service • Center for Professional Selling • Center for Reservoir and Aquatic Systems Research (CRASR) • Keller Center for Research • Keston Center for Religion, Politics, & Society • Kyle Lake Center For Effective Preaching Institutes • Allbritton Art Institute • Institute for Air Science • Institute for Faith & Learning • Institute for Oral History • Institute for Studies of Religion (ISR) • Institute of Biomedical Studies • J. M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies • Robbins Institute for Health Policy and Leadership Office of the Provost • Office of the Provost • Office of the Registrar • Paul L. Foster Success Center • Provost Office Staff • Research • Vice Provost for Research • Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education and Institutional Effectiveness University Libraries • Library and Academic Technology Services • Armstrong Browning Library and Museum • Arts & Special Collections Research Center • Law Library • Moody and Jones Libraries • School of Education LRC • The Texas Collection and University Archives • W. R. Poage Legislative Library Special Programs • Baylor Business Fellows • Baylor Interdisciplinary Core • Glenn R. Capp Debate Forum • International Student and Scholar Services • Pre-Law • Prehealth Care Programs • Robert Foster Cherry Awards For Great Teaching • Study Abroad and Exchange Programs • University Scholars Baylor Museums • Armstrong Browning Library and Museum • Martin Museum of Art • Mayborn Museum • McMullen-Connally Family Collection Publications • Baptist and Christian Character of Baylor • Baylor University Press • Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice Journal • Graduate School Catalog • Keller Center Research Report • The Pulse • Undergraduate Catalog Associations • Texas Association for Employment in Education • Texas Oral History Association Academics Show More General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678