Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Office of the Dean Faculty and Staff News & Events Media Mentions Diversity & Inclusion Community Engagement Initiatives & Opportunities CLA Translation Institute CLA Translation Institute Staff Information Technology Marketing and Communications Admissions Undergraduate Admissions First-Year Applicants Cost, Financial Aid and Scholarships Transfer Students International Students Honors Program Contact Us Visit Us Graduate Admissions How to Apply Cost, Aid and More International Students Visit Us Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Certificates and Minors Graduate Certificates Online Degrees and Programs Departments and Programs Students Academic Advising Video Resources for Undergraduate Students Professional Development Accelerated Degrees Student Ambassador Program Study Abroad Student Organizations Awards and Scholarships Sonkin-Weisman Scholars Program Beyond the Classroom Resources Research Undergraduate Research Liberal Arts Undergraduate Research Awards LAURA Scholars Testimonials Graduate Research Faculty Research Initiatives Research Administration Faculty Resources Labs, Centers and Institutes Alumni Alumni Association Board of Visitors Giving Donor Spotlight Temple University News Events College of Liberal Arts Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Shape the Future Here and Beyond We are civic-minded, globally conscious creative thinkers, doers and risk-takers. Learn More Learn More Undergraduate Degrees Our undergraduate programs prepare you to enter a 21st century workforce that values critical thinking, problem-solving and effective communicating. Learn More Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Join a community of over 650 inquisitive and engaged graduate students matriculating in 13 different academic programs. Graduate Degrees Apply Apply Ready to apply? Submit your application online now! Apply 27 Average Undergraduate Class Size 50+ Study Abroad Programs 35 35 Majors, 39 Minors, 32 Graduate Programs Upcoming Events See All Events 6/1 Wednesday Graduate Certificate in Nonprofit Management Info Session 6/17 Friday Olufemi Oyebade Doctoral Defense 9/22 Thursday Center for Sustainable Communities Seminar Series - Dr. Tischa A. Muñoz-Erickson Latest Stories See All Stories Rasheed J. Atwater Receives the First SAGE Molefi Kete Asante Award in Africology Rasheed J. Atwater Receives the First SAGE Molefi Kete Asante Award in Africology Rasheed J. Atwater Receives the First SAGE Molefi Kete Asante Award in Africology Africology and African American Studies Rasheed J. Atwater Receives the First SAGE Molefi Kete Asante Award in Africology by Department of Africology and African American Studies May 10 Rasheed J. Atwater, a doctoral student in Africology, has been awarded the 2022 SAGE Molefi Kete Asante Award, the top graduate prize in Africology at Temple University. Creat... CLA Alumnus, Activist and Philadelphia Native Announced as a 2022 Marshall Scholar CLA Alumnus, Activist and Philadelphia Native Announced as a 2022 Marshall Scholar CLA Alumnus, Activist and Philadelphia Native Announced as a 2022 Marshall Scholar College of Liberal Arts CLA Alumnus, Activist and Philadelphia Native Announced as a 2022 Marshall Scholar by College of Liberal Arts Staff December 14 Osimiri Sprowal, a Temple University College of Liberal Arts alum (CLA '20) whose life work is at the intersection of homeless rights activism, policy, and poetry has been nam... Alumnus’ $5M Gift will Provide Scholarships, Professional Development Opportunities and Rename Anderson Hall Alumnus’ $5M Gift will Provide Scholarships, Professional Development Opportunities and Rename Anderson Hall Alumnus’ $5M Gift will Provide Scholarships, Professional Development Opportunities and Rename Anderson Hall College of Liberal Arts Alumnus’ $5M Gift will Provide Scholarships, Professional Development Opportunities and Rename Anderson Hall by Meg Kiernan September 30 College of Liberal Arts Psychology alumnus Leonard Mazur, CLA '68, FOX '75, and his wife, Helena, are strong believers in the power of education and opportunity. A generous $5... CLA Alumna Chelsey Lowe Influences Black lives in Philadelphia and Beyond CLA Alumna Chelsey Lowe Influences Black lives in Philadelphia and Beyond CLA Alumna Chelsey Lowe Influences Black lives in Philadelphia and Beyond College of Liberal Arts CLA Alumna Chelsey Lowe Influences Black lives in Philadelphia and Beyond by Kierstyn Smith August 26 Chelsey Lowe, CLA '14, has always been passionate about improving Black lives and supporting Black businesses and communities. Now, she applies her passion for equitable devel... Congratulations to CLA's Class of 2022 Baccalaureate Award Winners! Congratulations to CLA's Class of 2022 Baccalaureate Award Winners! Congratulations to CLA's Class of 2022 Baccalaureate Award Winners! College of Liberal Arts Congratulations to CLA's Class of 2022 Baccalaureate Award Winners! by Meghan Kiernan May 18 Come each spring, feelings of pride, joy and accomplishment float in abundance through the air for all to feel as our graduating College of Liberal Arts Owls prepare to spread... Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Mazur Hall, 12th Floor 1114 W. Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Apply Visit Request More Info