Skip To Main Content Report an Accessibility Barrier The Department for Disability Support Services Search | Menu Search Resources Email Canvas Banner PiratePort PirateID IT Help Videoconferencing Engage Work Request Directory Maps Virtual Tour A-Z Index Academic Calendar Event Calendar Catalog PRR Catalog A-Z Recently Updated Interim Repealed About Policy Sources University Policy Committee Help PRRs> Student Affairs> Campus Living> Campus Living Residence Halls Required Residency (CLRHRR) - Version 2 Campus Living Residence Halls Required Residency (CLRHRR) Version 2 (Current Version) Print All Versions: Version 1 Current Version Compare 2 Versions Policy REG11.20.01 Title Campus Living Residence Halls Required Residency (CLRHRR) Category Student Affairs Sub-category Campus Living Authority Chancellor History First Issued: December 2011 First Effective: Beginning Fall 2012 Semester; Revised April 23, 2018. Contact Campus Living Assignments, (252) 328-4663 Related Policies Additional References Campus Living Agreement Campus Living Resident Handbook Exemption Request Form 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Overview. Specifies which students must live in university residence halls (on-campus). Generally, first-year students must reside on-campus for at least two semesters except as specified below. 1.2 Definitions. 1.2.1 Vice Chancellor For Student Affairs (VCFSA). Administrator who supervises the AVCCLDS and/or who oversees substantially all aspects of East Carolina University’s student affairs operations. 1.2.2 Associate Vice Chancellor Of Campus Living & Dining Services (AVCCLDS). Administrator who supervises and oversees substantially all aspects of the residence halls, residential life, dining, and related programs. 1.2.3 Assignments Staff. Staff responsible for organizing and arranging student assignments within the residence halls. These staff may be contacted at the telephone number referenced above. 1.2.4 Assignments, student. The process of determining how to organize and arrange student placement within the residence halls. Also, a student’s officially designated place of residence within the halls as determined by Assignments Staff. 1.2.5 Campus. For purposes of determining distance from campus: 701 E. 5th Street Greenville, NC 27858 or Latitude 35.609681 by Longitude -77.367102. 1.2.6 Housing Review Team (HRT). A committee comprised of members from Student Health Services, the Center for Counseling and Student Development, Campus Living and chaired by Disability Support Services. HRT determines a student’s eligibility for reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act within the residence hall system. 1.2.7 Housing Exemption Review Committee (HERC). A committee chaired by the Director of Operations for Campus Living, who votes only in the case of a tie, that is comprised of representatives from campus offices including Student Health Services, Admissions and Financial Aid. Additional individuals may be appointed by the AVCCLDS or designee. 1.2.8 Parent. Any natural or adoptive parent, or any person legally designated as a student’s guardian or who served as a legally appointed guardian to the student immediately preceding the student’s 18th birthday. In the absence of a parent or guardian, any individual or individuals acting as a parent to the satisfaction of the HERC. 1.2.9 Campus Living License Agreement (CLA), also known as the Campus Living Contract. The license agreement that all residents sign to reserve space in campus housing. 1.2.10 Learning Communities. Groups developed to provide students with the opportunity to experience the transition to a large university in smaller, more personal groups. They are designed to assist in the academic transition to university instruction, to support the student-faculty interaction beyond the classroom, and to encourage positive student connections within East Carolina University. 2. STUDENTS REQUIRED TO LIVE ON-CAMPUS 2.1 All students must reside in one of ECU’s approved residence halls, unless a student meets the criteria for exemption specified below. Students who can demonstrate that, by the first class day of the applicable term to the satisfaction of the HERC (or by Assignments Staff as HERC’s designee), any of the following may be exempted from this requirement: 2.1.1 The completion of more than 24 regular college credits earned in a traditional post secondary collegiate educational setting. To count towards exemption, credits must be from an accredited institution of higher education. Credits earned in courses or programs commonly known as or substantially equivalent to “advanced placement” may not count towards exemption; credits earned in dual enrollment, post secondary enrollment option, early college programs, including programs resulting in an Associate’s Degree, or which were otherwise credited towards a student’s high school diploma, high school equivalency diploma, or graduate equivalency diploma may not count towards exemption. Credits earned in distance education and distance learning may not count towards exemption. 2.1.2 Students who are or will be 21 years of age. 2.1.3 Students who are a veteran of US Armed Forces. 2.1.4 Students who reside with their spouse. 2.1.5 Students who reside with their dependent children. 2.1.6 Students who commute from the permanent home address of the student’s Parent. The permanent address of the Parent must be within 35 miles of Campus. 2.1.7 Students who assert that their religious practices cannot be accommodated in college housing. Requests for exemptions, and accompanying documentation, should be submitted for review by the HERC, which will assess whether the housing system can provide an accommodation. 2.1.8 Students with serious medical conditions, which may not be reasonably accommodated in accordance with the American with Disabilities Act Amendments Act. Requests for exemptions due to medical conditions, and accompanying medical documentation, may be submitted by a student directly to Disability Support Services. If a request for medical exemption is submitted to the Assignments Staff, the request will be forwarded to the HRT for review. The HRT will recommend appropriate accommodation(s). If no reasonable accommodation is recommended by the HRT, the Assignments Staff shall automatically process an exception consistent with section 2.3.1 below. 2.1.9 Students deemed by the AVCCLDS or his/her designee, as ineligible to reside in the halls due to the student’s misconduct. Behavior that may render a student ineligible, includes, but is not be limited to, a violation of an ECU policy or regulation (such as the Student Code of Conduct, the CLA, the Campus Living Resident Handbook, etc.); a violation of a policy or regulation of the University of North Carolina System; or a violation of any other governing law or other regulation. 2.1.9.1 Students deemed ineligible shall be exempted from this Regulation. Students who are involuntarily exempt from this Regulation shall be notified of such in person or at the student’s official electronic mail address. 2.1.9.2 The provisions expressed in the CLA shall govern the financial consequences of involuntary exemption from this Regulation. 2.1.10 Students who are exempt under section 2.1.6 or 2.1.7 will be required to be part of a Learning Community for their first semester of enrollment at ECU.This Learning Community is designed to replicate many of the on campus living benefits by building the student’s social and academic connection to the institution by one or two cohort classes with other exempted students and a required commuter meal plan(s) designated by the HERC for that academic year. 2.2 Students seeking exception. Students seeking exemption under sections 2.1.1 - 2.1.7 and not exempted under sections 2.1.8 or 2.3.1 must request exemption through the process below. 2.2.1 Completion of form. Complete an Exemption Request Form available from Assignments Staff. The Exemption Request Form is also available online. 2.2.2 Submission of application and documentation.Submit the completed application and supporting documentation to Assignments Staff. Exemptions which may be objectively verified through clear and proper documentation shall be processed without HERC involvement by Assignments Staff. Assignments Staff will forward all other requests to the HERC. 2.2.3 Notification of HERC determinations and further review. Assignments Staff will notify students of the HERC’s determinations at the student’s official electronic mail address. Students who receive an adverse determination from the HERC may submit subsequent Exemption Request Forms and additional, new, or updated supporting documentation for further consideration. 2.3 Enforcement. ECU will enforce the on campus living requirement by billing students the standard campus living and dining fees for each semester the student is both enrolled and subject to this Regulation unless the student submits a valid exemption request by the first class day of the applicable term or unless the student is exempted under sections 2.1.8 or 2.3.1 of this Regulation. 2.3.1 Automatic exemption. ECU will not bill students who have already resided on campus for two full semesters and for students who have completed 24 full credits eligible for exemption under section 2.1.1 while enrolled at ECU. Students who are automatically exempt may reside on campus by participating in the return to housing sign-up process as administered by Assignments Staff. 2.3.2 Regulation Violations. Students responsible for violations of this Regulation may be subject to consequences under the Student Code of Conduct and shall remain financially responsible for the full campus living and dining fees as described in section 2.3. East Carolina University E 5th Street | Greenville, NC 27858 | 252-328-6131 ©2022 | Terms of Use | Accessibility | Report a Barrier