Search | Directories | Reference Tools UW Home > Discover UW > Student Guide UW Bothell Course Descriptions UW Tacoma Course Descriptions Glossary SCHOOL OF MEDICINE BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS & MEDICAL EDUC BIOMEDICAL INFORMATICS AND MED EDUCATION Detailed course offerings (Time Schedule) are available for Spring Quarter 2022 Summer Quarter 2022 Autumn Quarter 2022 BIME 300 Transformational Technologies for Biology, Medicine, and Health (5) An introduction to Biomedical and Health Informatics through three modules focusing on current technologies: (1) Electronic Health Records (EHRs), (2) data mining the EHR, and (3) translational bioinformatics and personalized medicine. Each module includes primary literature readings, and hands-on team projects that explore the technologies involved. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 300 BIME 435 Informatics in Healthcare (5) Introduces information technology applied in healthcare across three modules that (1) overview the U.S. healthcare system, (2) establish an understanding of clinical information systems used in healthcare, including electronic health records, and (3) survey applications in clinical informatics, such as virtual health care and the learning health system. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 435 BIME 498 Special Topics in Biomedical and Health Informatics (1-5, max. 15) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to significant problems or issues in biomedical and health informatics. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 498 BIME 499 Undergraduate Research (*, max. 12) Investigative research or directed readings in medical education and in biomedical and health informatics. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 499 BIME 520 Teaching Methods in Medical Education (2) Empirical and theoretical merits of different teaching methods as applied to medical education. Structuring and leading group discussions, using questions, organizing and delivering lectures, identifying styles of clinical supervision, providing constructive feedback, and presenting effective clinical demonstrations. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 520 BIME 521 Evaluation of Learning in the Health Sciences (3) Basic issues and methods for evaluation of learning: cognitive performance, psychomotor skills, and reasoning abilities in classroom, laboratory, and clinical settings. Practical applications of instruments such as multiple-choice questions, essays, oral examinations, checklists, rating scales, simulations, and patient management problems. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 521 BIME 522 Research in Medical Education (2) Individualized, problem-based overviews of research methods and research design pertinent to research and scholarship in medical education. Development and sequencing of research projects from conceptualization through literature review, including proposal development, project implementation, data management, analysis, and write-up. Assessment and critical reading of related literature stressed. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 522 BIME 530 Introduction to Biomedical and Health Informatics (3) Overview of biomedical and health informatics concepts, theories, and applications, including the historical evolution and the current and future research directions within the context of information flow in healthcare settings. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 530 BIME 533 Public Health and Informatics (3) Introduction to the emerging field of public health informatics. Covers general public health topics as well as key public health informatics issues and applications. Evaluates a public health information system. Prerequisite: either BIME 530 or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 509. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 533 BIME 534 Biology and Informatics (3) Provides an introduction to some of the fundamental concepts in core fields of biology; the information representation and management problems that arise from these fields; and current and potential informatics solutions to these problems. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 534 BIME 535 Clinical Care and Informatics (3) Explores the ways in which information technology affect healthcare delivery system design and delivery. Considers current and future research questions and trends as well as current and future application opportunities and challenges. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 535 BIME 537 Informatics Research and Evaluation Methods (4) Introduces the many facets of evaluation and research for biomedical and health informatics projects. Focuses on formal studies of the application of information technology in medicine, conducted while an information resource is under development and after the resource is in routine service. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 537 BIME 539 Teaching, Learning, and Communication in Biomedical and Health Informatics (4) Covers learning theory and teaching/communication skills specific to informatics practitioners and researchers. Reviews current learning theories applicable to undergraduate and graduate education. Helps to develop and practice effective teaching techniques. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 539 BIME 540 Critically Appraising and Applying Evidence in Healthcare (3) Literature appraisal skills for various articles (therapy effectiveness, diagnostic tests, literature reviews, clinical measurement, prognosis, quality of care, decision analysis, causation/etiology, guidelines, and economic evaluation). Appraisal of clinical information from literature, strengths/weaknesses of data, analyses, study design/applicability to a current patient's problem. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with HSERV 528. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 540 BIME 541 Introduction to Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis of Evidence (3) Conceptual understanding of the quantitative methods used to synthesize evidence. Methods for pooling evidence across independent studies, pooling binary/continuous outcomes, differences between fixed and random effects models, and guidelines for appraising published systematic reviews/meta-analyses. Prerequisite: either introductory level courses in statistics, epidemiology, or biostatistics or permission of instructor. Offered: jointly with EPI 541/HSERV 529/PHARM 529. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 541 BIME 543 Consumer Health Informatics (3) This course provides an introduction to consumer health informatics (CHI) including theories of health behavior and information behavior; key concepts and terminology; and application domains. The course will cover issues such as health literacy, patient-centered communication, patient empowerment, and privacy; and application domains including personal health records, m-Health, and telehealth. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 543 BIME 550 Knowledge Representation and Applications (3) Defines knowledge representations and explores how knowledge presentations and ontologies are used in the semantic web and why these issues are important for biomedical informatics application builders. Uses a research focus to explore foundational theoretical issues and choices facing application builders. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 550 BIME 554 Biomedical Information Interactions and Design (4) Introduction to theoretical frameworks and research methodologies that underpin the study of human-information interactions and the design of biomedical information systems to support them. Emphasis on understanding informational needs and specifications that drive the design of health information systems. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 554 BIME 570 Health Sciences Information Needs, Resources, and Environment (3) S. FULLER Characteristics of users of health sciences information; health professionals, researchers, consumers and patients; environments (academic health sciences centers, hospitals, clinics, and public libraries); evaluation of information resources in health care; types and uses of health information management systems; policy issues, professional standards, education, and certification. Offered: jointly with LIS 528; Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 570 BIME 581 Telehealth Systems and Applications (4) Introduces challenges for designers and managers of telehealth and remote healthcare networks. Develops abilities of managers, leaders, and researchers of telehealth systems through exploration into systems components. Activities range from research to implementation of system design for applications that bridge geographic distance to the development of practical applications. Offered: jointly with NSG 540; S. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 581 BIME 585 Professional Development in Biomedical Informatics I (1) David L. Masuda, John Gennari Covers fundamental knowledge and competencies related to professionalism, leadership, and interprofessional collaborative practice. Focuses on skills acquisition, refinement and self-directed, reflective learning. First in a sequence of three. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: A. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 585 BIME 586 Professional Development in Biomedical Informatics II (1) John Gennari, David L. Masuda Covers fundamental knowledge and competencies related to professionalism, leadership, and interprofessional collaborative practice. Focuses on skills acquisition, refinement and self-directed, reflective learning. Second in a sequence of three. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: W. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 586 BIME 587 Professional Development in Biomedical Informatics III (1) John Gennari, David L. Masuda Covers fundamental knowledge and competencies related to professionalism, leadership, and interprofessional collaborative practice. Focuses on skills acquisition, refinement and self-directed, reflective learning. Third in a sequence of three. Credit/no-credit only. Offered: Sp. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 587 BIME 590 Selected Topics in Biomedical and Health Informatics (1-3, max. 12) Computers and information technology are improving and changing healthcare education, research, and clinical practice. Informatics faculty and researchers from the UW and affiliated institutions present their research findings as well as discuss their views of national developments in their respective disciplines. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 590 BIME 591 Biomedical and Health Informatics Research Colloquium (1, max. 12) Provides forum for extensive interactive research discussions. Format is round table with short presentations and long facilitated discussion amongst students and core BHI faculty. Both students and faculty present. Topics primarily research focused (ongoing and proposed research.), but also journal articles, current topics of debate, and other. Credit/no-credit only. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 591 BIME 598 Special Topics in Biomedical and Health Informatics (1-4, max. 12) Readings, lectures, and discussions pertaining to a significant biomedical and health informatics problem or an emerging issue. Topics vary. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 598 BIME 600 Independent Study/Research ([1-10]-) Individual readings or study, including independent study in preparation for doctoral examinations, research, etc. Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 600 BIME 700 Master's Thesis ([1-15]-) Prerequisite: permission of instructor. View course details in MyPlan: BIME 700 BIME 800 Doctoral Dissertation ([1-10]-) View course details in MyPlan: BIME 800 Office of the University Registrar registrar@uw.edu Modified: May 30, 2022