Utah State University sites use cookies. By continuing to use this site you accept our privacy and cookie policy. I agree Skip to content Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries QUICK LINKS MyUSU SEARCH Registrar's Office Close search Search Utah State University: I want to search All USU sites People Search terms Submit search Registrar's OfficeOpen main menu Close Open search Home Registration Payment Records Transfer Graduation Calendars Forms Faculty & Staff Resources Back Faculty & Staff Resources ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Quick Links Close Quick Links Apply Visit Give Calendar A-Z Index Directory Libraries MyUSU USU Home Registrar Registration Payment Tuition & Payment Once you have registered for the upcoming semester, you are required to pay all tuition and fees by that semester’s deadline. USU uses TouchNet, an online service where you can view bills, make payments, and manage your account any time. You can also set up an authorized user, like a parent or guardian, to access your account and make payments on your behalf. You can also pay in person at the Registrar’s Office with cash or check. Check and Pay Balance (Students) Authorized User Login Tuition Rates Refer to the USU General Catalog for up-to-date information regarding Tuition, Fees and Refund information. 2022-23 Tuition and Fee Schedule View Past Rates Nonpayment Drop Deadlines Tuition is due upon registration. If you fail to pay your tuition by one of the tuition deadlines, you may be dropped from your classes and any waitlists you may be on. This is known as the nonpayment drop. Why Drop Students? To avoid students taking seats who may never attend or pay, students are removed at specific dates unless they pay for their courses. Late Fee Deadlines Students with an outstanding balance at a late payment deadline will incur a $100 late payment fee. Pay your balance in full or get on a payment plan prior to late payment deadlines to avoid late fees. 1098-T Tuition Statement Utah State University prepares a 1098-T form for all eligible students and furnishes it to the IRS. The form indicates that there might be education related expenses that could be claimed as part of the Hope Scholarship or the Lifetime Learning Tax Credit. 1098-T Tuition Statement Information For more information about this document and how to obtain your statement during tax season, please review our summary of the 1098-T Tuition Statement Tuition and Fees Agreement Students will need to review and accept the 'Student Financial Responsibility Disclosure and Agreement to Pay Tuition and Fees' in order to register for classes. Tuition and Fees Agreement Help For help on how to complete the tuition agreement, please review these steps. Registration Steps 1 Meet with your advisor The best way to prepare for registration is to meet with your advisor. If you want a smooth registration, do this. Show More Topics your advisor will help you cover Resolving Holds Selecting Courses Understanding Deadlines Degree Works 2 Register for classes Once registration opens you will have the opportunity to build your schedule. If you've already created a plan with your advisor, you should be able to complete this step in a matter of minutes using Banner. Show More Helpful guides and topics about registration Banner College Scheduler Common registration errors Waitlisting Course types and durations 3 Pay your tuition and fees Tuition is due upon registering for classes. You can see how much you owe by logging into TouchNet at anytime. Failure to pay may result in being dropped from your classes. Show More Payment Help Tuition & fee rates Payment options Nonpayment drop deadlines Still have questions? Contact us to provide feedback about this page or ask a question. If you see this don't fill out this input box. *Name *Email Address Page *Questions or Comments Submit Privacy Notice USU Registrar's Office CONTACT Us Taggart Student Center Room 246 1600 Old Main Hill Logan, UT 84322-1600 Email: registrar@usu.edu Phone: (435) 797-1116 Fax: (435) 797-1110 Processes How to Register Tuition & Payment Graduation How to Transfer RECORDS & CREDITS Update Records Access Records Share or Restrict Access Transfer Credits Degree Works Help Registration FAQ Tuition & Payment FAQ Graduation FAQ All Frequently Asked Questions Forms Assessment Faculty & Staff ARGOS FERPA Forms Grading Maps & Directions Search USU Campus Safety Jobs Contact Terms of Use Copyright Privacy Accessibility Non-Discrimination Admin Back to top of the page