Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Research Units Holland Family Student Center Offices Career Services Business Services Office Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Services Office of Broader Impacts of Geoscience Research (BIGR) Contacts Directions & Maps Diversity and Inclusion Quick Facts History Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Hall of Distinction JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Climate & the Environment Energy Geosciences Marine Geosciences Planetary Sciences & Geobiology Solid Earth & Tectonic Processes Surface & Hydrologic Processes Research Disciplines Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Advising Admissions Internal Transfers Degrees Offered Jackson Scholars Program Honors Program Financial Support Courses & Catalogs Field Experiences Why Geosciences? TNT 2021 Graduate Advising Admissions Degrees Offered EER Graduate Program Find a Supervisor Financial Support Courses & Catalogs External Grants & Scholarships Graduate Studies Committee Advising & Program Coordination Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services Career Center Geology Library Holland Family Student Center People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Chemical or Physical Hydrogeology Visiting Assistant Professors of Practice in Structural Geology/Tectonics JSG Community Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Research Scientists Postdocs Staff Tuition Rebates for Undergraduates Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Desk Blogs Texas Geosciences Science Y’all In the News Scientist Profiles Newsletter 2015 Newsletter 2014 Newsletter PDF Archive Media Contacts Events DeFord Lecture Series Master’s Saturday Heads/Chairs on the Future of Undergraduate Geoscience Education Workshop Summit Materials, PowerPoints and Webcast Archive Background Reading Agenda Graduation Distinguished Lectures Association Meetings GSA 2014 SEG 2012 GSA 2012 2011 Meetings DGS Vehicle Reservation Calendar Submit an Event Skip to main content Close Search Bar Prospective StudentsJSG CommunityAlumni & GivingRecruiters & Companies SearchMake a Gift About Mission & Vision Leadership Departments & Units Offices Contacts Diversity and Inclusion JSG Workplace Issues Research Research Themes Programs & Centers Laboratories & Facilities Industry Collaborations Find an Expert Education Undergraduate Graduate Advising Rankings Student Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writer-in-Residence Services People JSG Directory Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Employment Opportunities Outreach For K-12 Students For K-12 Teachers For Everyone People News Media Releases Dean’s Office Blogs In the News Newsletter Media Contacts Events Events Calendar Lectures & Seminars Association Meetings Summits JSG Graduation Menu Home People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Application Open for 2022-2023 Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows The Jackson School of Geosciences at The University of Texas at Austin is seeking applicants for its 2022-2023 school-wide Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program. We seek to hire creative and enterprising postdoctoral scholars who will conduct independent research on topics that advance our understanding of Earth as a system while engaging with researchers and faculty across the Jackson School. We welcome applicants with research interests across geosciences disciplines, but we are particularly interested in applicants who want to work at the interfaces between disciplines. Topics of collaborative study could include, but are not limited to: Polar-to-equatorial coastal processes and sea-level change; Energy systems, including transitional sources, alternative energy, and infrastructure (e.g., geothermal systems, gas hydrates, hydrogen energy, carbon capture and storage, energy and environmental economics); Subduction zone geodynamics; Climate change and water-energy security; Computational fluid- and solid-Earth geophysics, including machine learning; Natural hazard modeling and monitoring; Planetary evolution and habitability. The appointment is for two years with a salary of $65,000 per year, plus health care and other benefits. Research support of $10,000 per year is also provided. The start date is flexible, but ideally applicants will start by February 1, 2023. Applicants must complete a Ph.D. before starting, but be no more than three years past their doctoral degree date. An application package should include: a document outlining past achievements and general research interests (one page) a brief research proposal, including a short section describing how the research may leverage and magnify research being conducted at the Jackson School, ideally with more than one research group at the Jackson School (one page) a current CV that includes education and employment history, publications, and awards a list of names and contact information for three potential references The application deadline for this round of funding is November 15, 2022. Applicants should send applications electronically (in PDF form) as an email attachment to jsgpostdocs@jsg.utexas.edu. Applicants are welcome to reach out to research groups across the Jackson School to discuss potential areas of research interest. Please note that the Jackson School has many postdoctoral fellows in addition to the Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows. To apply for other postdoctoral opportunities, applicants are encouraged to make direct contact with Jackson School scientists they are interested in working with. Equal Opportunity Employer: The University of Texas at Austin, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action. The University is committed to a policy of equal opportunity for all persons and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, disability, religion, or veteran status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. Past Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Kyle Ashley (2015-2017) received his PhD at Virginia Tech. His research is focused on the evolution of metamorphic and igneous systems, applying pseudosection analysis, petrographic assessment, geochronology, and conventional and unconventional thermobarometric techniques to unravel changes in a rock’s pressure, temperature, fluid, mineralogy and deformation across time. Lately, Kyle has been studying the theory and application of trace element thermobarometers (e.g. Ti-in-quartz), as well as making advances in utilizing included minerals in rigid hosts for thermobarometry purposes with the application of elastic theory. He is currently studying rocks from Scotland, Himalayan Mountains (India, Nepal, and Bhutan), Greece, northern Appalachians, the Adirondack Mountains, Australia, Colorado, Lesser Antilles (Caribbean), and Madagascar, and since 2017, he has been a Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of Pittsburgh. William Foster (2015-2017) received his PhD from the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences at Plymouth University. William is a paleoecologist primarily interested in the recovery of marine invertebrates following the late Permian mass extinction event. His research focuses on how subsequent environmental change following the late Permian mass extinction led to shifts in the recovery of the benthos and if wave-aerated settings provided a ‘habitable zone’ allowing diverse benthic life, in particular reef ecosystems, to survive and recover following major climate warming. He is currently at Universität Hamburg’s Department of Earth Sciences. Tim Goudge (2015-2017) received his Ph.D. from Brown University. Tim is a spectroscopist and planetary scientist studying the surface geology of Mars to further understand the planet’s climatic and hydrologic evolution. He is interested in how aqueous surface processes are recorded in both landscape topography/geomorphology, and the mineralogy and stratigraphy of the sedimentary rock record. He is currently a member of the faculty in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Texas at Austin. Nick Dygert (2014-2016) received his PhD at Brown University. He is a petrologist/geochemist interested in the physical and chemical evolution of the terrestrial and lunar mantles. Nick’s research focuses on mantle melt migration, the thermal history of the upper mantle, petrogenesis of lunar basalts, lunar cumulate mantle overturn, and trace element partitioning in systems relevant to Earth, the Moon, and Mars. Since 2017, he has been a member of the faculty in the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences at University of Tennessee at Knoxville. Burch Fisher (2014-2016) received his Ph.D. at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Burch’s research is broadly interested in how landscapes evolve with respect to complex linkages between climate, tectonics, organisms, and humans at the Earth’s surface. To this end, his projects are diverse in both spatial (Himalaya, Andes, North America) and temporal scales (10^0 – 10^6 years) and have generally relied on several distinct data sets to decipher and quantify landscape drivers and signatures, including geochemical (cosmogenic and fallout radionuclides, U-series, etc), topographic (terrestrial and airborne lidar), remotely-sensed (TRMM, ASTER, GeoEye, etc), and field-based observations. In 2016, he accepted a post doc position at the University of Pittsburgh’s Department of Geology and Environmental Science. Tieyuan Zhu (2014-2016) received his Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 2014. Tieyuan is an exploration seismologist who seeks to solve challenging energy and environment problems using seismic waves. His interests include advancing understanding of physics of seismic wave propagation in real Earth media, time-reversal, seismic inversion & imaging, time-lapse monitoring, and microseismic. He is now a member of the faculty at Penn State’s College of Earth and Mineral Sciences. Celia Dalou (2013-2014) received her Ph.D. at Laboratoire Magmas et Volcans. Before joining us, she was a post-doc fellow at the Carnegie Institution of Washington DC. Research interests: volatile and trace element partition coefficients, solubility and solution mechanisms of halogen elements in silicate melts, anion and cation substitution processes in mantle minerals, volatiles cycle in subduction zones. Her project here focuses on developing the Cl/F ratio as tracers of hydrous and carbonated mantle melting. Dr. Dalou accepted a position as a Research Associate in Department of Geology and Geophysics at the University of Minnesota in January 2015. Shannon Loomis (2013-2015) received her Ph.D. at Brown University. She is interested in developing and applying organic geochemical proxies to reconstruct past climate using lake and marine sediment archives and combining reconstructions with climate models to better understand the mechanisms behind past and future climate change. Dr. Loomis accepted a position as a Data Scientist with Nimble Storage in August 2015. Michael Toomey (2013-2015) received his Ph.D. through the MIT/WHOI Joint Program. Research interest: developing tropical cyclone records from the Solomon Islands and Baja California to test hypothesized forcings (e.g. ENSO, Insolation) and understand geographic patterns of storminess in the tropical Pacific. Dr. Toomey accepted as position as Research Geologist at the U.S. Geological Survey in April 2015. Hejun Zhu (2013-2015) received his Ph.D. at Princeton University. Research interests: Seismic tomography at regional and local scales, seismic migration for hydrocarbon exploration, numerical simulations of seismic wave propagation, seismic structure of the crust and upper mantle, strong ground motions and kinematic/dynamic rupture simulations of large earthquakes. Dr. Hejun accepted a position as an Assistant Professor of Geophysics in the Department of Geosciences at the University of Texas at Dallas in September 2015. Owen Anfinson (2012-2015) received his Ph.D. at the University of Calgary. He specializes in the use of heavy mineral geo-, petro-, and thermo- chronology to understand the geologic evolution of sedimentary basins and their source regions. Current field areas include the Swiss Molasse Basin, Italian Foredeep, and basins within the circum-Arctic. Dr. Anfinson accepted a position as a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Geological Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin in September 2014. Dr. Anfinson then began a position as Assistant Professor in the Geology Department at Sonoma State University in Fall 2015. Ryan McKenzie (2012-2014) Ph.D. in Geology at the University of California, Riverside. Research interests: understanding Earth system evolution at various temporal and spatial scales via utilization of integrative methods (e.g., sedimentary geology, geochemistry, detrital zircon geochronology, & biostratigraphy). Dr. McKenzie accepted a position as a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Geology and Geophysics at Yale University in January 2015. Andrew Smye (2012-2014) specializes in exhumation mechanisms, isotope systematics of metamorphic rocks, thermal models of crustal evolution, and phase equilibria calculations. Dr. Smye accepted a position as a NERC Independent Research Fellowship to work on noble gas systematics of subduction at University of Oxford, U.K. in Fall 2015. Dr. Smye will then begin a position as Assistant Professor for the Department of Geosciences at Pennsylvania State University in Spring 2016. Elizabeth Cassel (2011-2013) received her Ph.D. in Geological and Environmental Sciences from Stanford University in 2010. Most recently, she was a visiting Assistant Professor at Franklin & Marshall College. By combining field stratigraphic, pedogenic, geochronologic, and isotopic research, Dr. Cassel proposes to study the topographic and climatic history of the region that is now the Basin and Range (the proposed ‘Nevadaplano’) through the early-middle Cenozoic – a time period of global climate change and significant tectonism affecting topographic change across the western US. Dr. Cassel accepted a position as an Assistant Professor with the Department of Geological Sciences at the University of Idaho in March 2014. Jeffrey Marsh (2011-2013) received his Ph.D. in Geology from the University of Maine in 2010. Most recently, he was a Faculty Fellow at Colby College. Marsh’s research project aims to precisely define the P-T-t-d path recorded by metamorphic core packages and their overlying units using detailed geologic mapping, integrated microstructural, petrological, and geochronological analysis, and phase equilibrium modeling. Dr. Marsh accepted a position as an Assistant Professor with the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Queens College in January 2013. Jakob Vinther (2011-2012) received his Ph.D. in paleontology and molecular biology from Yale University in 2011. Vinther is a molecular paleobiologist who seeks to understand broad scale patterns of body plan evolution. As a postdoc at the Jackson School, he plans to further explore the fossil record of early Paleozoic invertebrates by the integration of molecular biology and the fossil record. He has been studying fossil color patterns along with the Jackson School’s Julia Clarke. See this National Geographic/UT Austin video on some of his recent work. Dr. Vinther accepted a position as a Lecturer in Macroevolution with the Schools of Earth Sciences and Biological Sciences at the University of Bristol in August 2012. People Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Program Find an Expert Scientist Profiles Employment Opportunities JSG Community Faculty Through Time, In Memoriam Mailing Address Jackson School of Geosciences 2305 Speedway Stop C1160 Austin, TX 78712-1692 Phone (512) 471-6048 Support JSG Departments & Units Department of Geological Sciences Bureau of Economic Geology Institute for Geophysics Administration & Offices College Leadership Career Services Business Services Development and Alumni Relations Office of Communications Information Technology Office Helpful Links UT Austin UT Direct Emergency Information IT Help JSG Directory JSG Profiles Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS News Feed © 2022 Jackson School of Geosciences, The University of Texas at Austin Web Privacy | Web Accessibility Policy | Adobe Reader