Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home UT iSchool Menu University of Texas at Austin Home The University of Texas at Austin UT iSchool Make a Gift Search Search Search Search About Expand Vision & Core Values History & Tradition Diversity & Inclusion News & Events Jobs at the iSchool Contact Us Programs Expand Admissions Class Schedules Course Offerings Undergraduate Informatics Program Master of Science in Information Studies School Librarian Certificate Program Master of Science in Information Security & Privacy Dual Degree Programs PhD in Information Studies Certificate of Advanced Study Postdoctoral Fellowships People Expand Faculty, Staff, & Students Alumni Student Organizations Advisory Council Information Commons International Students iSchool Committees CARE Counselor Research Expand Research Areas Grants & Awards Labs Information & Culture Visiting Scholars Careers Expand Students Alumni Employers HireUTexas Giving Expand Endowments Donate Online Student Giving Home News iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification iSchool Partners with the Institute of Certified Records Managers to Fast Track Graduates’ Certification The School of Information at The University of Texas at Austin is pleased to announce that we have partnered with the Institute of Certified Records Managers (ICRM) to accelerate our master’s program graduates in obtaining professional records and information management (RIM) certification. The partnership allows students in the Master of Science in Information Studies (MSIS) degree program to apply completed course work toward examination credit for either the Certified Records Analyst (CRA) or the Certified Records Manager (CRM) designations. ICRM logo.png The Institute of Certified Records Managers is an international certifying organization of and for professional records and information managers. The iSchool's partnership with ICRM accelerates MSIS students' credentialing by offering credit for Parts 1-5 of the ICRM exam after successful completion of the required courses. “The value of ICRM certification lies in the rigor applied to ensure continued information management relevancy. Graduate-level education covers the full scope of the ICRM body of knowledge,” states Sharon LaPlant, President of the Institute. Students will be eligible to apply for the Certified Records Analyst (CRA) designation and/or sit for Part 6 of the ICRM exam for the Certified Records Manager (CRM) certification upon graduation and proof of one year of professional experience obtained via employment or the academic service-learning, internship program (MSIS Capstone PEP option). “This strategic alliance provides a direct pipeline of practitioners entering the workforce that are educated and certified in global best practices for information management” said Rae Haliday, Chair of the ICRM Strategic Alliance Committee. “I am glad that new opportunities will be available to our graduates because of this partnership,” iSchool Dean Eric T. Meyer said. “I’m grateful for Dr. Ciaran Trace’s leadership and to our partners at ICRM for making this possible.” Incorporated in 1975, the ICRM was created to meet the requirement to have a standard by which persons involved in records and information management could be measured, accredited and recognized according to criteria of experience and capability established by their peers. Learn more about the partnership and required coursework for the CRA and CRM Certifications. Contact the ICRM Business Office: (877) 244-3128 | http://www.icrm.org | admin@icrm.org Dec. 1, 2021 Share this Email Twitter LinkedIn UT iSchool 1616 Guadalupe St, Suite #5.202 Austin, Texas 78701-1213 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Contact Us News & Events Email Lists Faculty and Staff Information Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Login UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022