Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Arts & Sciences Magazine - Fall 2019 Menu Table of Contents From Dean Nordt A Class Act Ladybugs, Crawdads and Snails An Honorable Venture Finding Harvey No Ordinary Class Project Community-Minded Research Career Counseling 2.0 Our Back Pages - Baylor’s Arts & Sciences Centennial Q&A: Expanding the Field News & Notes Campus News & Notes Student News & Notes Faculty/Staff News & Notes Alumni News & Notes Past Issues A Class Act Arts & Sciences student Lauren Cox is making an impact both on and off the basketball court. Read More From Dean Nordt A message from the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences Ladybugs, Crawdads and Snails Baylor undergraduates are sharing their love for science and research with a new generation of students An Honorable Venture For more than 40 years, Baylor's chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society has recognized outstanding achievement and championed the liberal arts Finding Harvey Baylor researcher Robbie Rogers has solved a perplexing 60-year old mystery in gospel music No Ordinary Class Project A class of archaeology students has been working to get Baylor University the national recognition its long and distinguished history deserves Career Counseling 2.0 Baylor's new Career Center is proactively engaging students with resources to help them achieve their career goals Our Back Pages - Baylor’s Arts & Sciences Centennial Q&A: Expanding the Field Baylor's biology department has made providing research opportunities at all levels a priority. In this Q&A, Randy Fiedler, director of marketing and communications for A&S, talked with Dr. Dwayne Simmons, biology chair and The Cornelia Marschall Smith Endowed Professor in Biology, Dr. Thad Scott, associate professor of biology, and Dr. Jacquelyn Duke, senior lecturer in biology, about an innovative new course designed to give undergraduates a deep dive into research. News & Notes Updates on faculty, staff, students and alumni General Information Colleges, Schools, Libraries & Research Admissions Administration Gateways For... About Baylor Anonymous Reporting Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate Mental Health Resources News Pro Futuris Report It Search Social Media Title IX Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Baylor Alumni Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Legal Disclosures. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678 Table of Contents From Dean Nordt A Class Act Ladybugs, Crawdads and Snails An Honorable Venture Finding Harvey No Ordinary Class Project Community-Minded Research Career Counseling 2.0 Our Back Pages - Baylor’s Arts & Sciences Centennial Q&A: Expanding the Field News & Notes Campus News & Notes Student News & Notes Faculty/Staff News & Notes Alumni News & Notes Past Issues