Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Admitted Graduate Students Current Graduate Students Employers Departments» Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Biomedical Engineering Chemical Engineering Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics Computer Science Earth and Environmental Engineering Electrical Engineering Industrial Engineering and Operations Research Mechanical Engineering Admissions» Application Requirements Apply Admissions Events Campus Tours Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Funding Opportunities Tuition and Financial Aid Visit Us Brochures Graduate Student Life» Professional Development & Leadership Housing New Student Checklist Student Organizations Campus Resources Graduate Career Placement Graduation Class Day 2022 events for Graduate Students Fellowships & Opportunities The Graduate Student Affairs Team Graduate Students Resources Events & Activities Diversity and Community Engagement» Events Student Life Bridge to PhD Program Graduate Enrollment Services» Registration Requests Change of Status Change of Status Forms Learning Online Resources List» Columbia Engineering COVID-19 Emergency Fund for Doctoral Students Virtual Event Opportunities» Welcome New Students!» New Student Checklist Admitted Student Webinars Applying for a Visa Campus Resources Connect Engineering Welcome Day & Orientation Housing Information International Student Panel Frequently Asked Questions Program Kick-Off Schedule Apply Now News Bulletin Graduate Engineering Applied Physics & Applied Mathematics with Materials Science and Engineering VISIT APPLIED PHYSICS & APPLIED MATHEMATICS Modeling ways to predict weather. Decoding the biological cause of cancer. Testing sophisticated solutions for developing nanoscale devices. Pioneering fusion energy. Those are just some of the extraordinary advances made in the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics. Join us in an interdisciplinary collaboration into the development of solutions that forward science and technology for a healthy, connected, secure, and sustainable future. Department Overview Collaborative learning and multidisciplinary research are hallmarks of the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics at Columbia University. By applying mathematics and physics to solve real-world problems, we connect to engineering, natural science, technology, and medicine, and prepare our graduates for exciting careers. Education In addition to undergraduate programs in applied physics, applied mathematics, and materials science, the Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics offers graduate programs leading to the degree of Master of Science (MS) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD). These programs are flexible, with a choice from among many concentrations, and with a sufficient number of elective courses to allow each student to concentrate in his or her area of interest. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is required for admission to the department. Research The department is a leader in advanced research including nanoscale science, advanced scientific computing, applied mathematics, earth science, plasma physics, and materials for information technologies. Our faculty members play leading roles in the Columbia Nano Initiative and the Department of Energy (DOE)-funded Plasma Physics Laboratory in research initiatives that include: Plasma physics and fusion research Optical, laser, and solid-state physics Dynamical systems and chaos Computational and applied mathematics Large-scale scientific computation Atmospheric, oceanic and earth physics Materials science & engineering Nanoscience Medical physics For a full list of recent research, please visit the department research page. Faculty Our faculty include award-winning scholars who are dedicated to excellence in teaching and research and who are leaders in their fields. For a full list of faculty members, please visit the department’s faculty page. Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics Columbia University 500 West 120th Street 200 S. W. Mudd Building, Mail Code 4701 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-4457 Fax: 212-854-8257 Email: [email protected] Materials Science and Engineering The Program in Materials Science and Engineering is focused on understanding and developing new and better materials for the use in innovative engineering applications. Visit the Program in Materials Science and Engineering Office of Graduate Student Affairs 500 W. 120th Street New York, NY 10027 Admissions (212) 854-4688 | [email protected] Academics and Student Affairs (212) 854-6438 | [email protected] Apply Now Plan a Visit Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University