Texas Tech University Directory Raiderlink A-Z Index Military & Veterans Programs Menu Search TTU Military & Veterans Programs College Credit for Heroes What is the College Credit for Heroes Program? College Credit for Heroes is a partnership between the Texas Workforce Commission, the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board and Texas colleges and universities. The College Credit for Heroes (CCH) program seeks to maximize college credit awarded to veterans and service members for their military experience. CCH is designed to recognize the knowledge and skills gained by military service members and to award college credit for military experience, enabling veterans to more easily re-enter the workforce. Each participating institution retains the right to determine applicability to specific degrees and certificates. Texas Tech University (TTU) is a partner institution in the CCH program. Texas Tech University as a participating Texas university in the CCH program agrees to accept college credits recommended through the College Credit for Heroes System where appropriate. Recommended college credits may be applicable to some programs of study but not applicable to others. For more information click here How do I obtain a CCH Transcript to send to Texas Tech University? Go to the following link. Register as a CCH User. Request an evaluation of your military educational experiences. If you are applying to TTU as an undergraduate student, request a CCH transcript to be sent to: Texas Tech University Admissions Office P O Box 45005 Lubbock, Texas 79409-5005 If you are applying to TTU as an graduate student, request a CCH transcript to be sent to: Texas Tech University Graduate School P O Box 41030 Lubbock, Texas 79409-1030 If you are applying to TTU as an law school student, request a CCH transcript to be sent to: Texas Tech University Law School P O Box 40004 Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 If you are a current student, request a CCH transcript to be sent to: Office of the Registrar-Transfer Evaluation P O Box 45015 Lubbock, Texas 79409-0004 How do I apply to Texas Tech University? Submit an application for Texas Tech University via ApplyTexas. More information can be found at the following link, click on the Apply Now links based on the level in which you are applying: Undergraduate, Graduate, Law School. Undergraduate Information: What happens once Texas Tech University receives my CCH transcript? Before TTU will evaluation your CCH transcript, you must apply and be accepted to TTU. Please also submit your Joint Service Transcript (JST) or Community College of the Air Force transcript(s). During the admissions process, military, college and CCH transcripts are forwarded to the Office of the Registrar's Transfer Evaluation Office (TEO) for evaluation. Credits are reviewed and then posted onto your official student record. Military credits are also evaluated based on the American Council of Education Guide. Courses which are transcripted as WECM or VOCN must be individually reviewed and approved as per TTU policy, Guidelines for Transfer of College Credit (see the TTU undergraduate catalog), for possible credit toward your degree. The academic dean of your college determines which credits apply to your degree plan. Who do I contact for more information? Evaluation of credit, time it takes for evaluation, or to find out if your CCH transcript has been received: Visit the following link or contact the TEO Office at 806.742.3661. How your credits will apply to your degree plan: Contact the Academic Deans' Office of your college. How to start Veterans Educational Benefits at TTU (undergraduate, graduate or law school): Visit the following link or contact Military & Veterans Programs at 806.742.6877. How to start Veterans Educational Benefits at TTUHSC, contact Sara Henly at sara.henly@ttuhsc.edu or call 806.742.2300. Prospective transfer students wanting to know which courses to take or the sequencing needed for their intended degree at TTU should contact Community College & Transfer Relations (CCTR) at the following link or call 806.742.0876. Graduate or Law Information: If you are applying as a Graduate student, contact the Graduate school concerning how your CCH transcript will be evaluated. If you are applying as a Law student, contact Law School concerning how your CCH transcript will be evaluated. TTUHSC Information: If you are applying to the TTUHSC School of Nursing, contact Kyle Chapman at kyle.chapman@ttuhsc.edu for more information. For all other TTUHSC majors, contact Sara Henly at sara.henly@ttuhsc.edu. Contact TTU Contact Contact TTUContact Contact TTU News News for NewsNews for News Events EventsEvents Texas Tech University 2500 Broadway Lubbock, Texas 79409 806.742.2011 Follow Texas Tech University Like Texas Tech University on FacebookLike Texas Tech University on Facebook Follow Texas Tech University on twitterFollow Texas Tech University on twitter Check in with Texas Tech University on FourSquareCheck in with Texas Tech University on FourSquare Subscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTubeSubscribe to Texas Tech University on YouTube Follow Texas Tech University on FlickrFollow Texas Tech University on Flickr Follow Texas Tech University on InstagramFollow Texas Tech University on Instagram Connect with Texas Tech University on LinkedInConnect with Texas Tech University on LinkedIn Contact Texas Tech UniversityContact Texas Tech University Contact Us Campus Map Jobs @ TTU Emergency Communication Center General Policy Information Public Access to Course Info Energy Management Mental Health Resources Title IX Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Online Institutional Resumes TTU System TTU Health Sciences Center TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University Statewide Search State of Texas Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal Texas CREWS SAO Fraud Reporting Open Records Requests © 2022 Texas Tech UniversityMay 6, 2022 10:12 AM Military & Veterans Programs Events & Calendar Military & Veterans Programs Back Events Military & Veterans Programs Back Upcoming Events & Announcements Green Zone TechVet Boot Camp Camo to Corporate Tournament for Heroes Stole & Recognition Ceremony Coffee & Conversations: Afghanistan Programs & Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Getting Started Military & Veterans Programs Back Prior to Discharge Start Here Submit MVP Certification Forms FAQ Hazlewood Act Military & Veterans Programs Back Overview Veteran Legacy Children/Spouses-100% Veterans Previous Recipients Federal VA Benefits Military & Veterans Programs Back Federal Educational Benefits Resources Military & Veterans Programs Back Connections Military & Veterans Programs Back Campus Resources Community Resources State Resources Federal Resources Places of Interest in Lubbock and West Texas Useful Links Military & Veterans National Alumni Network (MVN) TTU Parents Association Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Academic Support Military & Veterans Programs Back Veteran Liaisons Tutoring Guide Mentoring Study Abroad for Students Using Veterans Benefits College Credit for Heroes Financial Information Military & Veterans Programs Back Financial Aid Student Business Services Veterans Benefit Estimator MVP Scholarships About MVP Military & Veterans Programs Back Department Info Military & Veterans Programs Back Welcome Message Professional Staff MVP Program Specialists Ratings, Rankings & Awards Stars & Stripes Study Lounge Gallery Press Releases Contact Us Additional Resources TTU HomeDirectory Raiderlink A-Z Index